ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. Next, I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. Let me remind you that the questions and answers are no more than 1 minute and we will have time to take as many as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u2	Congressman Gustafsson will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u3	Mr President! In yesterday's mid-term debate on Finland's direction, it became clear to everyone that the government is putting the market ahead of people and regions. The unfortunate symbol of the debate was the abolition of teacher training in Savonlinna. It was also a bad feeling that the Prime Minister had asked the Pellervo Institute for a report on the financial impact of the transfer and, before it was even announced, you decided to allow the education to be stopped. You spoke less than a month ago at the Central Party Council: "I would go to Finland to seek a competitive advantage from decentralisation rather than focus." I saw the Prime Minister. Frankly, your actions are not convincing. The SDP saved Savonlinna last time — tell us now why you decided to allow the closure before the entire investigation had even been published. My question is: what is the credibility of the centre and the government in regional policy and the balanced development of Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u4	Mr President! This was indeed discussed yesterday in the context of the interim issue and, as I said then, the government, under the direction of the Minister of Education, has had discussions with representatives of the city of Savonlinna and with representatives of the University of Eastern Finland. The same kind of solution as last season was offered to the University of Eastern Finland regarding Savonlinna, and the decision of the University of Eastern Finland was that they no longer want to move the decision forward in one period but want to resolve it this season. And the elements offered were not sufficient for the University of Eastern Finland, and it was made very clear from there that this matter is not solved by the government's financial presentations, but that the University of Eastern Finland makes its own decision on its own basis, which includes these results indicators, which apparently have been agreed at the time when you are
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u6	Mr President! The Association of Agricultural Workers, the Centre and the Social Democrats have been key factors in creating the Finnish higher education system. The rise of our economy and Finland as a whole has been based on our higher education system. "Speaking about regional policy is very old-fashioned. That is what Minister Vehviläinen said. "Regional policy does not guide the university policy of this government", said Yeah, well, it's the action that counts. In a statement distributed to all of us, Professor Tuori, the country's leading — the emphasis on the term 'leading' — wrote to us: 'The decision on the location of the university operating units does not have the autonomy of universities'. And also: "The autonomy of universities does not prevent the state's control powers. It is in Section 48 of the University Act."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u7	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Gustafsson, Minister of Education of the previous government, when you have certainly also discussed this matter with the current President of the University of Eastern Finland: all of us here, who have dedicated themselves to this matter at all, know that they wanted a long-term solution. And the solution of what was then done four years ago was not, according to the university’s own opinion, a solution, according to their autonomy, for them to believe that teacher training could continue in the future. During the reform of the University Act in 2010, this constitutionality was certainly being clarified, and this statement by Mr Tuori has just arrived. Personally, I would be very cautious as a minister — although this is not my responsibility at the moment — but also as a Member of Parliament to take a stand so that I would walk over the autonomy of the university.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u8	Madam President! It was the autonomy of universities last season when the then Minister Gustafsson saved the Savonlinna campus. You don't have to walk over university autonomy. Prime Minister, you did not answer the question. First of all, you said that you were going to find out the financial implications of this closure. According to experts in the region, the savings from this closure amount to hundreds of thousands but cost millions. Why did you decide to allow this closure before the entire report you ordered was even published?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u9	Madam President! Firstly, I am a staunch supporter of a decentralized society. I also made this clear when I met the last one. But as decision-makers, we must be very careful in how we intervene, for example, in the decision of the university board whether we are trying to influence the decision taken by the university board. What we have in this toolbox of the Ministry of Education is strategy money, and with special funding we are able to direct this. This was also attempted in this case, with exactly the same amount. We also discussed other elements, but they did not lead to the desired result. As far as this PTT report is concerned, we discussed it with the investigator, and according to preliminary data
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u10	Madam President! With regard to the abolition of Savonlinna's teacher training centre, I honestly believe that it should be acknowledged that the money would have helped. The Prime Minister here said that money did not help, but, as has already been said, it was precisely there to seek a long-term financial basis and it was hoped that this work could be planned in so far as it would not always be a question mark in a few years' time. If education cuts had not been so hugely targeted at universities, money would indeed have played this important role and, as a government, you could influence it. In the past few days, you have had such a policy of salt for wounds, that at the same time as the closure decision has become known, Savonlinna has regretted that they have heard criticisms that there is not an attractive enough place for training or that graduation rates have not been enough. People are worried and distressed, and today, at least, it did not improve when the on-call regulation was heard, [President MariaLohela : Time is running out. Question?]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u13	Madam President! I'm sure people in the area have been listening to this. The University and I have had several discussions with representatives of the city of Savonlinna. This situation is well known. The University of Eastern Finland is based on securing teacher education in Eastern Finland. What I was telling you yesterday was all the arguments of the University of Eastern Finland as to why they have come to this conclusion. They themselves reported that these indicators — attractiveness, measured by the number of priority applicants to start, which is the break-out rate and which share of continuing training — are too low in the teacher training of the whole of Eastern Finland and they want to raise them up and have made decisions in the context of university autonomy. It is also very important to us in terms of regional policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u14	Mr President! This drop in teacher training is a big blow to Savonlinna, it cannot be denied. It is, of course, a good thing that the government also had the will to invest financially in the continuation of this survival, Savonlinna now needs a compensation package that can keep this regional economy in such a condition that it does not completely collapse. There, now that these student residences, 800 apartments, are likely to have to be realised in the free market, that is what will bring down the prices of the housing in that area. This is a particularly big thing. That's why we need to get some use out there. The positive thing was, of course, that Savonlinna Central Hospital will remain an emergency hospital and that medical education will continue there. But now we have to put a team on this compensation package. So I ask the Prime Minister: are you ready for a working group like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u15	Mr President! This is an extremely unfortunate decision for Savonlinna, just as Mr Turunen said. Now, in the midst of this unfortunate decision, one should look to the future and go for a solution that, in the long run, would also be a solution that would increase the vitality of the region today. The government is prepared to give birth to such a solution and to set up the working group you have presented. There will certainly be elements on the education side, but then there must also be elements on how the vitality of the region, new jobs will grow in such a way that the region's economic carrying capacity will also be improved and thus attractive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u16	Madam President! The cuts made by this government towards universities are record. The University of Eastern Finland is in need of a cut of EUR 10 million, while the government is offering EUR 8 million in separate money, and at least according to my old mathematics, this equation remains a negative sign. The university has made it very clear from the outset that it specifically needs a long-term solution, no more separate funding for four years. My question is: in what way have you decided to reform university funding and the criteria and arguments for funding in precisely such a way that such long-term funding is possible? If such planning is not under way, I hope that at least the government of the country will acknowledge fairly that you are behind the decision at the end, ultimately that in Savonlinna OKL and teacher training will not continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u17	Mr President! The first thing to say to the author of this question, Mr Gustafsson, is that during your time as Minister of Education, teacher training in Hämeenlinna was driven down. But what this is all about has already come out well in these answers: As far as this teacher training is concerned, the university has also stated that this was not so much about cuts in education but about the objectives of the university to strengthen teacher education in Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u18	Question Time does not reply but asks questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u19	Mr President! Perhaps it would have been more correct for someone else to say it: the decision of the Hämeenlinna Teacher Education Unit was taken by Minister of Education of the Coalition Party. I do not want to say out loud what I think about this matter. I'm sure the minister needs to sort things out like this before the second time... I had a feeling of uncertainty yesterday, too, when this was being ignored, but I was not able to check it out here. It's better if I don't say what I'm thinking right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u20	Mr President! As I said, when you were Minister of Education, in those days the activity in Hämeenlinna ended. and drove down. I think it was done around the time of the government negotiations. In this context, I would like to ask you, in essence, why you were unable to influence this decision during the negotiations on the agreements the last time they took place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u21	Madam President! I venture to suspect that this pecking, which has occurred here, will not move this debate forward in any way. Instead, what will happen in the future in the Finnish higher education network is essential in addition to this acute situation in Savonlinna. Many studies show that the strength of the Finnish education system has been equality of opportunity, i.e. the wealth of parents, the thickness of their wallets or their place of residence have not regulated how far you can go in life and train yourself. This has been the result of a regionally comprehensive network of higher education institutions. This was the result of the research carried out by liquidator Roope Uusitalo, who considered the impact of student support and the impact of socio-economic support. Now I ask the Minister: what can we do to ensure that a regionally comprehensive network of higher education is maintained? I also ask: what can we do now concretely in front of Savonlinna in your sector? That's what we need to get the plans started as soon as possible. The Savonlinna case is very important and important to all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u22	Mr President! There is a very comprehensive network of higher education institutions in Finland in international comparisons, and it is important that we have opportunities to study in higher education throughout Finland. Similarly, I will return to my recent answer that Savonlinna needs our help now, and we are ready to discuss how we can find a substitute to ensure that Savonlinna has new beginnings. This Fibre Laboratory is one option that will certainly be discussed. Another important issue is the strengthening of higher education in the region. I am now also looking forward to suggestions from the region on how the government could help in this situation after this decision by the University of Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u23	Madam President! We were also very disappointed at the decision made by the University of Eastern Finland. It's a big blow to Savonlinna, I'm sure we can all agree with that. Mr Gustafsson, you were Minister of Education at the time of the end of teacher training in Hämeenlinna. The end of teacher training in Savonlinna is a big blow, just as it was from us in Hämeenlinna. The region needs action now; they have been mentioned here. There is also a need for investment in education, as Mr Grahn-Laasonen has just pointed out, and it is good that the Prime Minister is setting up a working group. I would like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, what ideas do you have on the work of this working party, what can it contain?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u24	Madam President! The Minister of Education presented what we can do on the education side, which we will go through carefully. We now have until the end of next year to look for solutions. But in particular those solutions that increase the vitality of the region, namely those that support the product development and research activities, training activities and thus strengthen the position of these companies in both national and international competition — in particular, finding such a package is the key to this. Jobs are also needed in Savonlinna, Savonlinna's unemployment rate is high, and a solution that at the same time benefits the region's business and business life is our primary solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u25	Mr President! I have no choice but to intervene in this Hämeenlinna debate, as I have been following the situation in normal school and teacher training institutions for decades, as a child, and at the time when its abolition started, it was followed very closely. At that time the university decided to abolish the teacher training institution in Hämeenlinna, and Minister Kalliomäki intervened because he assessed the overall impact and felt that the results of that training institution were so good that there was no point in ending a well-functioning and one of the best teacher training institutions in this country. After that, unfortunately, Minister Virkkunen behaved somewhat like Minister Grahn-Laasonen said that universities have autonomy and we should not interfere in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u29	Mr President! Oh, yeah, I'm going back to that Hämeenlinna teacher training. According to my information, the University of Tampere made that decision in June 2011 — I hope I am right about this — and then after the formation of the government, when Gustafsson was Minister of Education, strategy negotiations, or outcome negotiations, the same way as is happening today. There were no ways of dealing with the situation in Hämeenlinna at the time. Now the situation is that we have obtained a report from Olli Mäenpää on the interpretation of university law on university autonomy, and it states that we do not have the opportunity to act contrary to the will of the university in this matter. I also think it is important that we respect the autonomy of universities, the spirit laid down in the University Act, including the fact that universities themselves make strategic decisions for their own future. In this case, the University of Eastern Finland has considered that it can offer better teacher training in the future and develop it further in such a way that activities
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u30	There was still a question addressed to Prime Minister Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u31	Madam President! Assessment of overall effects: Here, too, we have indeed asked for an analysis of the overall impact assessment and the impact on the regional economy so that we can direct these compensatory measures here as well and those measures that will improve the vitality of the region in the future. That is what this is all about. We also received preliminary results on Monday from this study group.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u32	Next question, Krista Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u33	Madam President! Saturday is the national hiking day. Our hiking fish are not doing well. In the Government Programme, the recovery of migratory and endangered fish stocks has been identified as one of the key projects in the bioeconomy in selected pilot projects already in line with the National Fisheries Route Strategy adopted in 2012. The objective is to restore the natural reproductive cycle of migratory fish, including by removing barriers to fish, building fish roads, increasing flow and refurbishment of gutted area. According to the Government Programme, planning and implementation of the measures will start in May. I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen what is the situation, what measures are being taken and what targets are being taken to revitalise migratory fish stocks in line with the fishing road strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u34	Madam President! I would like to thank the representative because already in that question you described very much what the government intends to do in this key project to revitalise fish stocks. Indeed, we have an extra EUR 7 million available over the next three years. That money will start this year, and there will still be two years left in the future. We are currently mapping, and we have already mapped out, the watercourses where we can take these measures: removing barriers to migration, renovating breeding sites, spawning sites in the rivers, and, in fact, some of these power stations or power plants can also be built — from which there are good experiences in Sweden — and in Finland there are about a dozen of these rivers where the work has been started.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u35	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u36	Mr President! Although the ministers felt that this was a ridiculous issue, it is a matter of considerable importance in terms of diversity. Like the Minister Mr Tiilikainen said that EUR 7 million has been earmarked for this for the next three years. But it is clear that this sum will only be enough for the start-up of a fish-road solution for built rivers of great importance for the whole country's fishing industry. Minister Tiilikainen, how does the government intend to ensure that hydropower companies will also bear the overall responsibility for the costs of implementing the strategy and improving the breeding conditions for migratory fish? And is the Minister going to take steps to tighten up the legislation on current fishing obligations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u37	Mr President! The questioner is right on this point that the EUR 7 million is certainly not enough to achieve that objective. This is seed money, which, of course, requires that in places where the natural increase in migratory fish stocks is strengthened and revived these stocks, companies operating in the region, why not also regional funding or development project funding, must come to the fore in order to create efficiency. This is the kind of seed money we're talking about. The involvement of regions and businesses also has an impact on the order in which these sites can be implemented. Indeed, there are about a dozen of these sites throughout the country, both to ensure spawning sites for salmon and migratory fish that live in the sea and then to ensure breeding sites for inland waters, such as endangered salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u38	Mr President! This is not just a question of fish, it is also a matter of regional economic importance. For example, Kemijoki was once one of Europe’s most important salmon rivers and it played a major regional economic role in human food. Today it can play a greater role in regional economics in tourism, which in Lapland, for example, is a significant economic activity. I would like to ask the government whether the government intends to use the situation now that we have the portfolio of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment in the hands of the same person to promote, for example, the re-emergence of wild salmon to those parts of the Kemijoki that are free and hopefully also remain free, so that a unique whole of nature values, other nature tourism and also fishing can be achieved throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u39	Madam President! Now, the best way to implement this strategy is to re-establish the endangered fish stocks and, at the same time, to support the tourism industry by bringing together the local forces in each river basin where these projects are to be carried out and to find a group of those responsible who jointly reflect on what the region is prepared for. For example, in the case of Kemijoki, the Federation of Lapland has taken responsibility for bringing together actors in order to achieve the goals you have mentioned. And indeed, I will take an example: once we have succeeded in revitalising and strengthening that naturally increasing stock of fish in the Tornio River and its rise in the second year will be at record levels, even last year at a very high level, it has certainly increased the flow of tourism in many ways. We must now also try to get other people who have this same development in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u40	Mr President! The river Kemijoki has a long and dark history. Back in the day, when the Germans blew up Kemijokisu, they applied for a permit to build a new bridge, but it accidentally became a dam, and the rising of salmon stopped there. Prime Minister Sipilä, you have planned to put the balance sheet to work and possibly sell the entire state ownership of Kemijoki Oy. Would it not be appropriate to earmark a sufficiently large proportion of sales revenue for the construction of fishing roads and for the fulfilment of the state’s undisputed fishing obligations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u41	Madam President! First of all, no sales decisions have been taken with regard to Kemijoki. That parliamentary border may then change in the context of the amending budget, but sales, even if possible sales, will be conditional on the conclusion of a shareholder agreement between the existing small shareholders and the larger shareholders. It has not been customary for us to earmark some sales revenue to be used for another use in the budget economy. But as we heard in the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry's presentation, these fishing routes are on high priority in the Government's programme. But it has not been the custom for us to earmark some sales income for a particular purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u42	Mr President! We in the Federation of Fisheries, like the Free Time Fishermen, have received this presentation with great enthusiasm and gratitude. Now we really hope that this will produce results. I myself live on the tops of the Kemijoki River, and as early as last summer we managed to transfer the first salmon there, and now I really expect more of these transplants, but this replanting may not be possible. We are now working on a number of new methods to transfer salmon. Is this fishing road programme to be worked out in what way so that we can have new systems working in a new way now? This is very important for fishing tourism. Yes, in the Kemijoki River, as in other areas covered by the fisheries road programme, fishing is really big and important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u43	Again, there is quite a lot of this other background discussion going on. Now it's Minister Tiilikainen's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u44	Madam President! When you consider all the means we can do to restore that natural stock of fish to a watercourse, of course, one important thing is to build those passageways, the fish stairs. Equally important is the ability to renovate those breeding sites before then and to get more salmon there, so that young people are born, which are labelled in that river and then, as they go down the river, know where to go back in the future. The mere fact that barriers to migration are removed does not yet help to create a viable stock, but it is necessary to overcome the barriers to migration by the lift of the mother fish that are trying to rise, so that we can get to those spawning grounds. Solutions such as this, concrete, detailed actions, with this strategic key project funding will be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u45	Mr President! I, too, am surprised at the mockery that came from the government parties in connection with this question. It seems that the government lacks this aspect of regional economic development. Frankly, I find it shocking that the government is surprised that the cuts of more than EUR 400 million per year in higher education and research by 2019 will lead to regional economic disadvantages and some localities will be freed from higher education. I think it is obvious that it is the result of what you have done. But here too, if we are talking about fishing boats and hiking fish, it is a question that, in time, when hydropower is built, it has been a major transfer of power from local people and fishermen to large hydropower companies, and it is estimated that fish planting obligations have been only about one seventh of the damage these people have suffered. Now the question is, Minister Tiilikainen: should a direct fishing road obligation be required in addition to this carrot money so that hydropower companies pay this debt to local people and fishing tourism?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u46	Mr President! I do not know who was laughing and where when this original question was asked. I personally take this very seriously and it is taken seriously by the whole government. The sign is that there are records of this at such a high level. This is one of the concrete measures for the key project in the bioeconomy, and the government, as the Minister responsible for the bioeconomy, obliges me to act on its behalf, and that is what I am going to do, and that is what I have told you here. With regard to these earlier court decisions on compensation for various types of fishing damage that have been assigned to companies, we certainly have the authorities in Finland to assess whether the situation has changed, whether the compensation is in order, and if that assessment is made and we take a new round, then it is up to the authorities to assess it, and they can do their own work in peace. I am obliged to take these as the government's top project forward together with the actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u47	Next question, Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u48	Madam President! The Government's report on internal security, published today, rightly identifies a change in the security situation in many ways. However, there is an area in which one would have liked a clear, firmer grip on the government. It's road safety. It is known that foreign trucks travel on Finnish roads, for example, whose condition and loading are almost not in line with the requirements of Finnish law. There is also a lot of grey economy involved in cabotage. Minister Orpo, the mobile police have lost a lot and are still losing a high level of professionalism, which the local police do not, for example, have under the control of drivers' driving and rest periods and overloads. Is the government going to acknowledge that the abolition of a mobile police force was a clear mistake that must now be corrected?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u49	Madam President! Indeed, today the government approved the Internal Security Report, which is the first. It is a report by the authorities on what is currently going on in Finland's security. I think it is very important because then we will have a common picture of the situation on which we will then consider the measures. Of course, this road safety is part of the police package, and the discussion of this report, which is now starting in Parliament, gives us a good opportunity to get to know it. According to the information provided by the police government, traffic control has been able to keep to the objectives required by the Parliament in connection with the decision to abolish Pora 3, i.e. the mobile police. It is now an excellent opportunity for Parliament to review this situation in the context of this report and to examine these carefully. My own view is that, despite all the risks and fears, the closure of the mobile police has been handled well and that traffic control is moderate or well-controlled.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u50	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u51	Madam President! Studies show that the feeling of insecurity has increased in Finland. The feeling of insecurity continues to increase as police officers are reduced and activities are concentrated in larger places. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Orpo, was right to declare that the safety of citizens is guaranteed by the work of the authorities and does not belong to street patrols or other bodies outside the work of the authorities. However, words are not enough if there are no hands. It is hard to imagine how a digital virtual police force can help a person in the middle of a crisis, prevent burglaries or calm violent situations. Minister Orpo, there's not enough police badges for security. How does the government ensure that police services are available quickly and easily throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u52	Madam President! Of course, citizens' sense of security is extremely important and, in order to maintain that sense of security, it means that we can rely on the actions of the authorities. One part of it is that the police appear and arrive when help is needed. Almost everyone in this Chamber knows that over the last few years and decades we have taken decisions that have reduced the number of police stations, police stations and the whole organisation, and instead have invested in using resources for mobile patrols and, today, when they go to the hut, it is practically a mobile police station. I think it is very important that the government has now stated, in the context of the Internal Security Report, that efforts should be made to curb the reduction in the number of police officers to around 7,000. It requires action from us. In the Government Programme negotiations and spending limits decision, the Government provided additional resources, and now we are going to adopt a strategy to consider that this can be secured. This year and next year are reasonably good, the challenges will then be there at the end of the spending limits period, but everything we do,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u53	Madam President! Mr Orpo, you are facing a major issue when you have to justify how all this can be done in such a way that the public's sense of security can still be maintained. Of course, as a hundred people, it worries me that we have police units shut down in Huittinen as well as in Eura — they are involved in this police investigation. We are a province where immigrants have been embraced with open arms, but we know that the police have different activities in these areas. We are at a road crossing there in Huitt, where there is very cross-border traffic, and if there is any cross-border activity in the region where there is already cross-border activity, the visibility of the police and police intervention will be prevented by the fact that police patrols are being taken out of the area, how can a sense of security and security be kept at the same level as they are at present?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u54	Mr President! The situation of internal security has changed very radically, as the representative said. Even in the last year, we have found ourselves in a whole new situation as a result of uncontrolled immigration, an increase in the threat of terrorism, increased cybercrime, the effects of international crime. At the same time, the police and the security authorities are facing former threats. When we know what the state of public finances is, it is simply by pouring money — and there is no such money — that this cannot be managed. In the subsequent process of this report, we need to think very carefully about how we work, how we develop cooperation between the authorities, what we invest in, what we emphasise. One thing, this police station network, is working on the government and the signatory. That process has now been going on for several months now, and we are well aware within the government that the security situation, including the asylum situation, has changed because we are now looking at it again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u55	Mr President! This internal security report is quite harshly readable. The government reports that in the coming years the number of incidents and crimes will increase, the preparedness times of the police and emergency centres will increase, some of the tasks will be completely unaccounted for, more and more crimes will remain unsolved and, in particular, the maintenance of the security of sparsely populated areas will become more difficult. That report warns against the number of police officers falling to 7,000, but the truth is even worse. In other words, Parliament has only recently addressed the Government's approach to the budgetary plan, according to which the police budget will fall in the spending limits period, so that in 2019 the number of police officers would fall to about 6,700 with the money that the government has given, which would mean a reduction of 500 policemen. This is unacceptable. I would like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä now that this is about the government and in what way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u56	Mr President! According to that internal security report, the security situation in Finland is good at the moment and people’s sense of safety is also good. But there we recognize the risks and are also prepared for them. It is clear that, as risks are recognised and the changes in the way things are done, it is not possible to carry out tasks with the current resources, of course the government will always consider whether more resources are needed. They do this all the time. And that is why such an internal security report will also be carried out: recognising the risks, looking at current policies and seeing whether more resources are needed in the future or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u57	Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior, led by Minister Orpo, has done an excellent job. We now have in our hands a first report on internal security, and now on Tuesday next week we are going to have it processed in the Chamber, that is, each of us will now get and have to take a position on what the security situation in Finland will be in the next few years. That's a great thing. In fact, we have a steady decline in the overall crime rate, although some types of crime have risen, but unfortunately the feeling of insecurity has increased and must be taken seriously. After all, there is much more security than police activity. A well-functioning social policy is the best criminal policy. And now, in the future, as the strategy work starts after the report, I would like to ask Minister Orpo: How extensive will this be? Who is involved in it, what are the issues raised in it, and what is the timetable for bringing it here so that we know the signs of this future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u58	Madam President! We are now trying to launch the strategy process as quickly as possible. This strategy process involves society as a whole, including organisations and also industry, other ministries and administrative sectors. We would like to see this as an extensive process from now on. This report is written by the internal security authorities of the Ministry of the Interior, not a political pamphlet, but by the authorities. On that basis, we will start working and see how we are able to strengthen the security of Finland as a society in a broad-based, broad-based way. It will include good services, the role of the third sector and so on, i.e. a very broad-based approach. That is what I would like to say when Mrs Räsänen said that this is hard to read, that I believe that this search for and recognition of the facts is the beginning of wisdom: to make a report which tells us where we are now. From that it is good for us to go together to build a safe Finland, in accordance with what is stated in the Government Programme, that the goal is that Finland will be the safest country in the world in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u59	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u60	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Regeringen har i dag offentliggjort sitt förslag till jourförordning, och det är ingen trevlig läsning. Full dugnet runt-jour kommer att Koncentreras till 12 sjukhus i landet, och bland you give är inte Vasa centralsjuchus ett av dem. Det är någonting som vi i svenska riksdagsgruppen inte kan acceptera.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u61	Madam President! Firstly, the questioner has now failed to read the documents which have been made public today. First of all, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health has made public his proposal on how the package of emergency services will be built in this country in the future. Secondly, we still have a valid constitution which requires that services be provided in the mother tongue. Thirdly, the existing legislation does not come — I do not know why — to change the fact that the mother tongue will continue to be one of the criteria on which the services are available. This also applies to on-call services. Now, at least as important as the question of whether an assessment of linguistic impacts has been carried out is, for the Swedish-speaking population in Ostrobothnia and for the wider Swedish-speaking population, the fact that we are now considering how to maintain and maintain the highest possible level of service in our region, Ostrobothnia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u62	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u63	Värderade fru talman! Fortsättningsvis fick vi ju inte ett klart svar, och det är nog en svaghet nu i regeringens handlande. Man kan inte nonchalera de språkliga grundrättgheterna på det raus sättet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u64	Mr President! In those respects, when you ask about the future of regional hospitals, you have to wait at least 3.5 months. A letter has left me today that does not have direct jurisdiction, but I know that at least in some provinces and within some hospital districts it is grateful that the Minister is now making a wish in the field: sit down at the same tables, build emergency services units 1) within hospital districts, 2) between hospital districts and relying on university medical care. This is a key issue. I am not running away from the responsibility the Minister has for the preparation, but it is at least as important that we are now building on-call chains. There are good examples of this in northern Finland, where we are already very far along with what is meant by the division of labour between different hospitals. This kind of activity, which has been done for example in the northern erva area, should now be brought to the Turku Erva area as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u65	Madam President! It is a fact that Ostrobothnia is 51 per cent Swedish, 46 per cent Finnish, and the rest are then other languages. Now I am particularly concerned about the way in which the treatment of these diseases will be secured for the majority of the speakers in our language, that is, Swedish. The things of the soul are not spoken in the wrong language, so to speak. You have to use your own language. Then I would like to ask the Minister what happens to the heart surgery at Vaasa Central Hospital and to the very good, even nationally respected, oncology department. In that haste when I looked at these papers, it seemed that the concentration would also take place in that part of the Central Hospital of Seinäjoki. Will this be the case, or will the actions we have remain? I know that you have said that further action can be taken if you wish. But who will give the money to those additional activities for these less valuable hospitals?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u66	Madam President! Mental health is one part of a situation where you need to be able to communicate in your native language. That will be the case in the future. But what kind of emergency services in specific areas are there in which central hospital: — Note: in the future, every current central hospital will be on call 24 hours a day — They won't be the same in the whole country. Even today we do not have a situation where hospital A and hospital B are one of the special areas on call. Ostrobothnia requires its own customization, many other provinces require their own customization. Secondly, with regard to the extent and the combination of these specific areas, the conclusion that someone is now going from one place to another, I understand that: In Vaasa, there is a strong will to be in the direction of Turku the direction of cooperation that is desired and ready to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u67	Mr President! The Rauma Regional Hospital received an exemption from Minister Huovinen at the time, and we have been living very closely for the last few years, following the guidelines that are now coming from here for the follow-up. This is also an issue that has an impact on regional policy. In the Rauma region, for example, the Olkiluoto nuclear power station, ports, industry are things that hopefully will also affect the overall solution that will be made. I would like to ask the Minister: the media has now read that, for example, Salo would have direct permission to continue the activities of the regional hospital, but then, on the other hand, I understand that other regional hospitals should have such an exemption if there is a joint and unanimous decision in that area. Is this true? Have there already been direct policies in this regard for some cities and for some there is a need for such a joint decision?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u68	Madam President! We now have a proposal for legislation which is based on the Ministry's preparation for office, which will take place for a three-and-a-half-month consultation. When you asked if there were any completed policies in Helsinki on Meritultinkatu, there is not. I have today sent a letter to the heads of the hospital districts, in which I hope that the managers and other managers of the hospital districts will be sitting on the same tables over the next few weeks and months to consider, for example, regional tailor-made solutions. Madam President! In the middle of the past few weeks there have been some positive messages from around Finland, and one of the most positive messages has been that The decision-makers of the municipality of Satakunta have started to build Saasote, which means, among other things, that the service network will be viewed together there, and when it is viewed together, it will mean that special care services will also be considered together. My expectations with regard to Satakunta are very high that there is no need to interfere in Helsinki's future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u69	Madam President, fru talman! You always have to learn from mistakes and learn from them. During the last parliamentary term, as Minister Rehula remembers, the social reform fell, among other things, by not listening to the constitutional experts in good time. It was picked up so that reform was forced on, even though it was known that there were constitutional problems. Now, Minister, you are making the same mistake. You listed these linguistic rights with great merit here, and it is easy to agree with them with you, but everything suggests that these have not been taken into account in any way in advance when you have prepared this. And the conclusion is that this will happen again as it did during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u70	Madam President! This legislative package for the 3.5-month, almost 4-month consultation will come to Parliament on the schedule of the Budget Act this year. This means that, now that you are making a mess, that during the last parliamentary term the whole of the war fell into constitutional problems, it fell, but this law is now going its own way. Parliament will also take a position on the Constitution. Secondly, you claim that, at this stage, the preparation has not been taken into account in the constitutional aspects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u73	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. Minister Tiilikainen will begin the debate, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u74	Madam President! It is a pleasure to present the Government's proposal for a law on short-term interest subsidies for mortgages on rental houses, i.e. in English this is a decision made in the Government negotiations or a record of a government programme in which it was decided to make a new ten-year interim model open to all eligible and committed developers in order to increase the production of rental dwellings. So this is a record of the government program. Shortly after the formation of the Board of Directors last summer, I appointed a liquidator, in interaction with the industry's operators, to build a short model of interest subsidies that would increase the production and construction of rental dwellings in line with the objectives of the Government Programme. As you well know and know, the government's employment and competitiveness tipping project is precisely one concrete measure to increase housing production, and will contribute to this new ten-year... [ The speaker's microphone malfunctioned. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u77	Madam President! At first, we must thank our Minister Tiilikainen. He has taken a very good grip on the implementation of a single annex to the Government Programme, the Housing and Construction Annex, and a great deal has already been done about it. The latest statistics also show that construction is on the horizon and that there is a small recovery in sight, and hopefully these will further strengthen it. There is a shortage of affordable housing in Finland. In fact, there is a shortage of all kinds of housing in certain areas. Our country is very strongly in different situations when we look at it here, for example, from the surrounding area of Parliament House, from the inside of Ring Three or from rural Finland. The situation is very different, but there is a shortage of apartments of all kinds. Indeed, housing shortages are the single biggest reason for the high price of living. The implementation of affordable housing sites is important, with a large factor in terms of land costs, layouts and construction methods, and different types of official regulations. They bring significant costs to construction and thus to housing. These include, for example, the definition of car parking, the various additional architectural requirements, for example, in the area of sports facilities that I have been able to work with in the State Sports Council, and it is interesting to note that Posio’s ice hall is built at the same price as Helsinki’s sports arena’s dressing rooms, and the architectural reasons are often significant factors in increasing the price. The sum summarum, the cost of living has gone higher than the usual wage and salary earners have in practice funds. For example, last year the total number of dwellings produced was about 26,500, compared with the need for some 30,000 dwellings in Finland. A significant increase in housing provision is therefore an essential factor in price moderation in all housing. In order to achieve affordable construction and housing, the most important thing is to address the costs of construction, including the various planning and construction regulations which significantly increase costs, thereby achieving a significant increase in the supply of housing. This section of government housing and construction also contains a number of measures that have now been taken forward. The collapse of housing production occurred at the beginning of this recession. In 2010, the so-called intermediate model for the production of rental dwellings and the fight against unemployment in the construction sector was introduced and produced excellent results. The Minister of Housing was Jan Vapaavuori, and the mid-term model he had designed was reflected in the large number of rental apartments that were completed. The interim model used during Jan Vapaavuori's housing ministry also worked well from the employment point of view in increasing housing construction. Surely there is a need for these additions today. Now we have a new proposal on the table, the Government proposal 76, which sets out a ten-year mid-term model. The Housing Financing and Development Centre would approve a new interest subsidy loan if the conditions laid down in the proposed law were met. Lending houses should be maintained for the entire duration of the interest-subsidised loan, i.e. 10 years, and the reasonable rent for the dwellings would be confirmed in the decision approving the interest-subsidised loan, after which rents should only be increased on an index basis. During the interest-bearing loan period, residents would be selected on a social basis and the provision of housing would be regulated. The duration of the restrictions would therefore be that 10 years, the so-called interim model 10 years, which the Housing Financial and Development Centre could extend 10 years on application up to two times. The new model of interest subsidies would not include restrictions on the general interest interest which restrict the activities of the borrower, with the aim of enabling even more new builders to make affordable rental housing production. The main line, therefore, is that any entity could set up a real estate company with a short-term interest subsidy loan. In this way, for example, municipalities and other public bodies, private profit-making companies, public utility housing entities designated by Ara and various third sector operators could be owners of a real estate company receiving a short-term interest-subsidised loan. The framework conditions of the aid scheme should therefore be such as to ensure that they encourage operators to carry out projects in the event of a huge need for rental housing. It would be the best way to moderate rental housing production and the price of rentals. The 10-year mid-term model would work at its most effective rate if there were no other obligations or constraints, which are now included in this proposal. It is certainly justified that we monitor the development of the rent. It is certainly justified to direct us to find the people most in need of these apartments, but above all, as I said at the outset, the most important thing is that construction is done, because the price of all housing is affected by the amount of housing there is or the number of housing queues there is. I believe that it would be good and justified for Parliament to add to this law, for example, in committee proceedings a certain amount of follow-up effort on how this law, with these marginal conditions and additional demands, which differ from that of the Vapaavuori model, will contribute to this start-up. But I am confident that the Minister Tiilikainen has done a good job here and, as he said, the first signs on the market are already in line with the start of construction. Let's hope that the municipalities and cities also have plots and that will give us more affordable rental housing in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u78	Madam President! Indeed, the aim of the proposal is to increase affordable housing production and diversify state-subsidised rental housing production. In recent years, so-called long-term interest subsidies have been poor, and in practice housing has been made mainly by municipal housing companies. One reason for the high housing costs of growth centres is therefore insufficient supply. After unemployment, the cost of living in large cities is also the main cause of poverty. In this respect, the initiative is very necessary and welcome. Although I think this initiative is to be welcomed, some considerations have nevertheless arisen, and I am raising them here as individual questions for further reflection. So, under these conditions, will affordable rental housing continue to be created? It is predicted that the rent level would lie between the non-subsidised and the ARA support. However, that fork is quite large, up to EUR 6 per square metre in the capital region. What about these income limits, which have been set here — are they in line with who we want to be here as a resident? I have no position on this, but I would like this to be considered. I would also like to ask whether the model is potentially too attractive to the developers. That may be a positive problem for someone, but I want to bring it up. So, in the long term, does the model replace long-term interest rate support? And is the model too unattractive? This is also possible when the interest rate is, however, as high as 2.5%. And does the initiative make it unduly good for business to be supported by the state? That's not what we want. We want a healthy and functioning market. What about the rental housing market if, as a rule, the houses built with this model go to the free market immediately after the first ten years? I hope that these issues will be addressed, and I am confident about that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u79	Madam President! Good Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This government proposal proposes to provide for a law on short-term interest subsidies for loans for the construction of rented houses. The aim is to diversify the financing options for state-subsidised rental housing and to increase the supply of affordable rental housing in growth centres by introducing a new short-term interest rate support model. This model would complement the current long-term interest rate subsidy. The aim is for the new interest rate subsidy to encourage operators in the production of social rental housing and therefore for people with low and medium incomes to be better offered affordable housing solutions. According to the proposal, reasonable rent for dwellings would be fixed in the decision approving the interest subsidy loan, after which rents should only be increased on an index basis. The residents would also be selected on a social basis during the loan period. All of this tells us that the legislator has well understood the current social reality and the impact of the various solutions on it. Mr President! Homelessness is a serious social problem. Homelessness refers to the continuous or occasional absence of a permanent dwelling. According to a survey of the Centre for Finance and Development of Housing, at the end of 2014, there were 7007 persons without housing, of whom 2443 were long-term homeless. There were 427 homeless families. Homelessness focuses on the capital region and growth centres. More than two thirds of the homeless are from the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Helsinki, Espoo and Vantaa. There are most homeless people in Helsinki, 3500 living alone and 280 homeless families, both in number and relative to population. In the capital region, homelessness is also partly permanent. The housing shortage particularly affects low-paid people living in the capital region and those entering the region to work, including care workers, low-paid workers. In March 2016, Helsingin Sanomat announced a project where the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa will build an apartment building for its employees in Helsinki. Of course, the high rents in the metropolitan area and the increased housing shortage have an impact on the availability of workers, especially in the care and care sector. In other words, this government proposal will have a very encouraging effect on the availability of housing for low incomes as well. Mr President! Dear Minister, in Helsinki, the National Council Group of the People's Republic of Finland submitted a council initiative in connection with container housing, which would mean module structures as one of the alternatives to homelessness. Could this form of housing be considered in Finland on an experimental basis? The initiative received a great deal of support in Helsinki, and I put a written question to the Minister about it. At the same time, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to this written question. In it, you encouraged open-mindedly to try out different options. Among other things, this module building could be one of such, provided that only other things are in order, i.e. strength, health, fire safety and environmental requirements. I doubt that this will solve any problem of homelessness either, but it could be one possibility. I would like to ask you again, when you mentioned this programme of measures to prevent homelessness, how will this be taken into account, among other things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u80	Mr President! If there is about 1000 euros in social rental housing and a reasonable rent for 50 square metres, then good, I will sign what the representatives of the government parties have said here, namely that this will promote social housing and affordable housing. In my opinion, EUR 1000 for a 50-square apartment is not affordable. We do indeed have enough housing here in the capital region as well as in different parts of Finland, but we do not have affordable housing. I believe that this is a problem that needs to be addressed in particular in Finland. In the last few days, much has been said in public that construction has started, which is an excellent thing for many reasons. A lot of expensive owner-occupied housing is built in growth centres, the capital region in good places. They will certainly be needed, but they will not remove the problem, particularly here in the capital region and in other growth centres. The last government changed the tender conditions so that the interest rate on this long interest rate subsidy was reduced to 1%. Now this government has raised it to 3.40 % again — that is to say, this long-term interest subsidy for the permanent construction of rental dwellings. On the other hand, the interest rate for these ten-year intermediate-model dwellings is 2.5 per cent. Even then, the amount of interest that can be taken on equity is 8 % in this ten-year intermediate model, compared with only 6 % in this long-term interest rate. In other words, the much less favourable conditions are in this ten-year interest rate subsidy than in this long interest rate subsidy. What we need is precisely that we have housing in permanent rental housing. Mr Heinonen was talking here about this earlier intermediate model — a construction magazine, I think, which said that 7500 dwellings were built at the time, of which the government will pay interest subsidies to insurance companies and occupational pension companies for EUR 30 million over a period of 10 years. This is the housing policy we want? In my opinion, especially at a time when we have a shortage of money, we cut off education, we cut off from all those on low incomes, when we have the money we need, we must target those who genuinely need help and, in this case, the production of rented dwellings with a rent level of between EUR 10 and EUR 12 per square metre, which was the production of rented houses produced by the previous government. The rental level of this model now presented is between EUR 17 and 20 per square metre. Is this too generous, then, for these developers whom we want to get involved in this? It is estimated that the largest subsidy is the property provided by municipalities for the ARA reserve, which will then be cashed after 10 years. In my opinion, this is not the housing policy that we currently need in Finland. We really need a housing policy that provides people with genuinely affordable housing, housing that survives in the use of rented dwellings that are not used in a speculative way, and all the support we have in society goes to the citizen in full.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u81	Secretary Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u82	Mr President! Thank you to many representatives for having correctly understood the purpose of this proposal. It is to increase construction, increase the production of rental dwellings, and the housing market works in such a way that if there is a shortage of housing, prices increase, must be able to promote construction and increase production. But, Mr Myller, unfortunately, you have now gone on a bit of thin ice in that recent criticism. The long model of interest subsidies that you praised after the previous government made it possible for the owner to charge an interest rate of 8% on the invested capital and to enter it in his own pockets, and that is what has been done. This government, at its first task in housing policy, put a stop to this, limited it to 4% in that long model of interest subsidies, and now this model, which you consider too generous, allows for a lower rate of rent, a lower rate of collection and income than the longer model you have just praised in your time. That is actually what I wanted to say, and otherwise I would like to thank the representatives for the active debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u83	Mr President! What, then, is the reason for this ten-year interest rate being lower than what it is in this long 40-year model? Why is it possible to receive a 6% income for equity, compared with 4% in this long period? So the question is that you are now building a model in which smaller obligations will provide greater support from society. What, then, is the reason why such production, which is ten years even under some kind of restriction, can be collected in excess of EUR 1 in the renovation fund? In ten years, no buildings will be renovated. What's the money for?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u84	Mr President! I am, Minister. A brickie, inclined to think like Myller. What was gratifying about your speech was that you did not say much about affordability, because this does not bring about affordable housing production. Your own ministry estimates between 17 and 20 euros per square metre. It is the same as if you check the average of non-subsidised rental dwellings in the first quarter of this year. This does not bring affordable housing. The good thing is that this will bring more production, this will bring new players, because the root of the problem is that our markets have been distorted. But simply by adding more housing, this problem will not be solved unless we can actually bring affordability there. Have you, Minister — this is what I wanted to ask you — thought of this from the perspective of segregation? In Helsinki, across party boundaries, we reject segregation in such a way that when we build a new area, we have defined: a certain amount of subsidised ARA production, a certain amount of intermediate model, a certain amount of hard money. Now you are creating a model where — when we build a new area — what we have planned from the point of view of combating segregation as an intermediate model,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u85	Minister Tiilikainen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u86	Mr President! We have different models for different needs and different actors. Just as Mrs Parviainen has said here, this long model of interest subsidies has been mainly used by municipal housing companies, and they will certainly continue to be interested in this long model of interest subsidies. Then we have completely non-subsidised production, which the state is not interfering with, and then we now have this short model of interest subsidies, which is between non-subsidised, long-term production at affordable prices, so that we can get more operators here in the area of rental housing. And with regard to your question of segregation, this certainly will not wreck the plans of the City of Helsinki or any other city. One thing about this segregation is the choice of inhabitants, and these income limits are such that a wide range of people have the opportunity to apply for them. There is still no seal that all operators want to
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u87	Madam President! We have too few housing, as the Minister for Housing said, and this will increase housing prices in the capital region, a chronic housing shortage. There are too few owner-occupied dwellings, there are too few rental dwellings, and then the dwellings will not be used in the way they should be that those who genuinely need them live in rented dwellings. We also have examples of people living in these apartments who are on very large incomes. Above all, we have a shortage of small dwellings, and it is good that when there is urbanisation, a reduction in family sizes, an ageing population and immigration, other standards affecting the price of housing are also being dismantled. Parking standards, accessibility requirements and these types are something that should be highlighted. And I am a little surprised that there is opposition from the left side of the Chamber to the significant creation of new jobs in the construction sector in this country. This will bring significant new jobs to the construction sector, and that, too, I think is a great thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u88	Mr Tiilikainen, this is where Mr Heinonen mentioned a very important issue, namely this ARA production. We have income limits here which, in my view, are in place here. At the same time, however, we know that Mr Tiilikainen, who leaves the Chamber, is also planning by means of regulations income limits for our basic ARA stock. At that point, if that income limit is as low as we are hearing at the moment that it is set at just over EUR 2000, then the municipalities will not be interested, at least not Helsinki, in building it on a 40-year model, because then it will be the construction of segregation if we create such districts. So this is the big problem. We in the committee have already begun to deal with this issue in advance, and Vantaa, among others, a major municipality of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, says that they will be considering whether they will be interested in a 40-year model of interest subsidies. And to this end, the MAL negotiations have just been almost signed between the state and the municipalities of the capital region. There is a 20% obligation to produce a 40-year model of interest subsidies, which currently seems to be of no interest to anyone. This is the problem. We are not opposed to more housing construction — it is very positive — but this does not correspond to what is stated in the explanatory statement of this law that this would correspond to the
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u89	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen has already left the Chamber, but when he said that the last government approved an 8% return on equity at 40 years interest rate and that the government has reduced it to 4%, I think it is inconsistent that, in this proposed model, the allowed interest rate of the ten-year interest subsidy model is 6%, which is better than what is allowed for those who commit themselves to maintaining their ten-year rental housing for social housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u90	President! That's right. That's what this is all about. If you think that a system with better conditions is being introduced alongside such a system of long-term rental housing, then it is certainly not certain in any way that a system with less favourable conditions will be used. And there's the big fear that living costs will all rise. When I made that comparison in that, under the current conditions, this long-term rental dwelling stock, for example, will be built in Helsinki so that the price per square metre is there at 10 euros, now with this new model it will be closer to 20 euros. If this second model is not built, it is quite clear that we have housing costs
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u91	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here, and this bill will probably not remove homelessness from Finland either. Affordable housing is the term used here and everyone talks about it. I always wonder for myself what is the affordable housing, which is the affordable rent. Is it possible sometimes to define what it is in concrete terms, because we certainly all have a few different ideas about what amounts we are talking about? So the principle is that money must remain in other things and live after paying its rent. Yes, the higher prices of housing and, as a result, the inequality of society are the subject of today's debate, and that is an important issue that we must maintain in our discussions — affordable housing in rented dwellings, including owner-occupied housing — because when we go into the future, the dwellings will run even further away. We can't afford to buy owner-occupied housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u92	Mr President! With reference to this threshold of EUR 2000, as far as I am aware, this is not planned. Similarly, with regard to money laundering on land, this bill does not allow speculation on cheap plots. There is a record of this in the government's proposal which seeks to constrain it. Mr President! Now that this 40-year aid model has been praised and referred to, I would say that there are places for development. It's the Minister. He's gone. I would have asked him if there were any plans for any related development measures. After all, we now have areas in Finland where the rents of market-based dwellings are lower than those of this 40-year ARA support model, so there are certainly places for development in this system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u93	Madam President! I agree that we should follow up, as I said in my own speech, on how this new model or the re-introduced model works, whether we have housing — that is, whether we usually have housing, whether we have affordable housing. That is why I think it is necessary and important for Parliament to make such a monitoring effort in relation to the effects of this on housing production. If homes are not born, then new solutions need to be considered. One aspect of the debate has also been the fact that, if these items in the interest rate subsidy model were to be built on rented plots, could it be a model in which the rent of the property would be more favourable for the duration of the restriction until the subject was thus freed from restrictions? This could contribute to an affordable rent level for these sites. This is the type of proposal that I believe is also needed in this debate, and hopefully also in the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u94	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u95	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Good speeches have been made here, and I say quite frankly that I am speaking from the point of view of the decision-makers in Helsinki. Juvonen wondered how to assess affordability. That's a good question. For example, if you compare different cities in Europe and their affordability, then you compare the percentage of income that goes to housing. Helsinki is the best in Europe. If you compare Berlin with Helsinki, you spend more than half your income on living, while the Berliner spends 25% of your income on living. That's one way. But one way is to look at the government program, for example. The Government Programme states that the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, like all growing urban areas, is in need of affordable housing and wants to be addressed. Now, with this proposal, the government is trying to tackle this problem and will bring us a model which, according to the government ministry's own estimate, will produce prices of between EUR 17 and EUR 20 per square metre. If you look at Statistics Finland's average for the first quarter of this year for non-subsidised dwellings in Helsinki, it is exactly the same fork. So we can say that this is not affordable because it does not in any way bring more affordable housing to the market and therefore does not bring the healthy price competition. The good thing about this proposal is where I hope that this is built in a way that is very affordable and very generous to certain developers, perhaps for nothing, but it also makes it possible for smaller capital to go along, because we do not have to fatten this in 10 years' time. You can apply for an extension twice for 10 years. This means that smaller capital will also be able to involve the players, which we hope will bring to the field a whole new kind of player, and hopefully new, genuinely non-profit-making, non-profit-making players of general interest, who are currently completely lacking in us. This is a good thing, and I hope that through this it will restore our markets and, of course, according to the laws of supply and demand, if we are to be stimulated by new housing, it should make them more of a tenant's market. Mr Honkonen said that it is not possible to speculate on cheap plots in this proposal that there is an element here that prevents it. Now you're gonna have to enlighten me because I don't recognize it. If I was thinking about Helsinki, we currently have large developers who are pawning completely viable plots, waiting for a better climate for themselves. These same operators are not eligible for the full construction of pre-disposal sites in a given area, but are only looking at certain new, most expensive areas that are now in the explosively growing Helsinki. We are building many large new residential areas, the size of a small Finnish city, because we have moved our ports and thus received a whole new construction site near the city centre from the seaside, very valuable. I eat, Mr Honkonen, my hat, if these developers are now prepared to take on land in areas where we desperately need hard money production where we desperately need new production, other than 40 years of ARA production by the municipality itself. I, Mr Honkonen, will really eat my hat if they grab these plots. I claim that they stand in line for Kalasatama, Jätkäsaari, Hernesaari and after 10 years, the plots will be completely fattened. That's what I would do if I acted on the same motives as them. If we think that this is also an attempt to attract new investors, this is an attempt to attract pension funds, then the pension fund has no other motive for investing its money than to get that return because it is obliged by its action to obtain a certain return. After all, they would go against their own rules if they were to make a smaller profit. In other words, this is the great risk of this proposal allowing speculation on low-cost plots, and when what we have planned as an intermediate model turns into hard money production, we may be in a situation where the price of housing actually rises. I would like to raise one more positive point. Supplementary construction is a very challenging but very important way for a growing city. It is capable of condensing the urban structure, creating new housing and bringing new residents and dwellings where there is already infrastructure, where services are already available, but it is very slow, the infill site is always relatively small, and it has often been difficult to get to traffic. When I read this presentation, I see that this can be very attractive to get in-fill, and that is what I consider to be good. You can rest assured, Mr Heinonen, that we are making a follow-up effort, perhaps not in the spirit of comparing us with the model of the Vapaavuori, but we will certainly make a follow-up effort on the impact on rents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u96	Mr President! Now that Mr Modig referred to this — I am certainly not asking you to eat your hat, but in any case — I did not quickly find the exact point in this government proposal, but this is where the fact that, after 10 years, if the developer gives up this site, then, in a way, it is not possible to speculate on the property. It is in this draft law, so in that sense I will stick to what I said. Mr President! As far as this proposal is concerned, the municipality has a zoning monopoly, and in exactly the same way the City of Helsinki and the other cities, which are now specifically targeted here and where the large housing shortage is concerned, will also be guided by their own measures — and I think it is still possible — through these elements of the ARA that are now in force and that are still in force. That this does not all depend on this ten-year model of interest subsidies as to where this construction is going. I consider this to be a measure consistent with the objectives of the Government Programme. Now, after all, our aim is to increase housing production. As Mr Heinonen has said, the most significant increase in the price of housing is that we have a shortage of housing. And now that we have more housing production, which also has good and stimulating effects on the economy, I believe that it will also lead to lower housing prices here in the capital region in the regions where they are the hardest. I also very much welcome the fact that housing policy is being discussed extensively here in Parliament, and now, for example, the Audit Committee has worked to find out why these very high house prices are being caused. They are important information for us parliamentarians, and I believe that in the future, too, when we assess how this ten-year model of interest subsidies has worked, they will also be good tools for us for further development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u97	Mr President! I certainly do not want to idealise this current 40-year model of interest subsidies, nor do I completely reject the government's proposal for a new model. It may well be that it is needed. However, a few critical remarks. Many speeches have already been made here to justify the suspicion that this ten-year model does not seem to be bringing about affordable rental housing production, which is precisely what is lacking. I find it illogical that this traditional model, in which the builder commits that for 40 years the dwelling will remain in social rental housing use, is in all respects less favourable to the construction company than this 10-year model. In the 40-year model, only 4 % interest may be taken on equity; the government suggests that a rate of 6 % may be taken on the 10-year model. The equity interest rate is cheaper in the 10-year model than in the 40-year model — although at the current level of interest rates, both may be slightly theoretical. And then, in a really ten-year model, the company will have a right in 10 years' time to so-called meat. In other words, if you have got a land from a good location — when the municipality wants to reduce segregation, you want to ensure the production of rented dwellings also in so-called good areas — then you can put it into meat when the time limit for this traditional model is 40 years. I think it is obvious that this 40-year model should be reformed, but I would also welcome the consistency of the internal logic of these models.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u98	Madam President! This is a good conversation. When it is said that the basic reason is that supply is too low compared to demand, the basic reason for the current situation is that this move to the capital region, some of the regional centres, is far too strong. When thousands of people move to the cities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, it is also visible in such a way that, for example, the City of Vantaa’s budget next year threatens to be 80 million in deficit, because this also increases municipal spending uncontrollably. So we should be able to contain this megatrend if we are really going to intervene in the price development of housing here in the capital region — where we are beginning to have a bubble when investors are also on the move. Indeed, the Parliamentary Audit Committee has decided to carry out a study on the effectiveness of housing policy — the research budget — it is only starting to move, quite broadly. I believe that if you go deep enough, it will lead to recommendations and measures in this debate that will really benefit you. This bill, which has been brought to this by the government, is certainly a good and important one for financing the intermediate model. I will return to this migration. It is also visible in those areas where people are losing people, that when people are forced to leave, they become unemployed — it is a bad thing — so when you have to move on to work, no one buys a dwelling. You're gonna be trapped in two, and it's gonna be really hard. And it is also the case that banks no longer even grant money for the renovation of the dwelling because they consider that the dwelling has no value. In other words, this migration is such a big issue behind our housing, that it must also be discussed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u99	Mr President! It is good that there is now a more in-depth debate. Nor do I in any case think that the current long-term interest rate subsidy, the 40-year interest rate subsidy, is the best possible. Time has changed since it was set up, and it does need a thorough overhaul. But the order could have been that, first, this long interest rate subsidy would have been adjusted so that it would have been more balanced and ensured that the costs of the entire running period were reasonably controlled, and then it would have been considered whether such another system would be necessary. But I still question whether an aid scheme that does not go directly to the resident is the right way to deal with a situation such as this, in which we eliminate everything. It is also very good to note that we have very different areas in Finland. We have areas such as this capital region, which we are now very concerned about, but we must also be concerned about those depopulation areas, where the situation is quite different and where the situation in rented housing is also different. Then I will say that by 2030 we will have about 35,000 sensitive rental dwellings left in the capital region, and when we know that this 6700 that was built on this earlier interim model will be removed in a few years' time, and we will be building a housing production that will remain in rental housing production for only 10 years, then we will be in constant trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u100	Madam Speaker! Representative Modig implied, or feared that this proposal would increase the cost of living in Helsinki. I find it difficult to understand how more housing could increase the cost of living in general. The increase in housing production will never increase the price of housing, but it is precisely the chronic shortage of housing that is particularly affected by our capital region. We have a shortage of all apartments in Helsinki, Vantaa, Espoo, and this is reflected in all the prices of housing. We have remained in need of housing since 2008, with the exception of the short ten-year interim period for the Minister of Housing, Mr Vapaavuori, which has made this situation worse, and Mr Modig, as a representative of Parliament in Helsinki, knows that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u101	Madam President! It is perfectly understandable that Mr Heinonen is not familiar with the situation in Helsinki. Representative Heinonen is a Member of Parliament of Häme and an expert in its region. We don't have a healthy market. We do not have a healthy market in housing production or in the construction sector, and that is why the fact that we are simply increasing those dwellings is not enough. It's part of that solution, but it's not the whole truth. If that truth moves forward, this situation will not be resolved. This problem is that we have competition in the hands of too few. We don't have a healthy competition. Once again, a left-wing ally is calling for healthy, genuine competition. It's the only thing that would help in this situation. If, for example, a 40-year model had been developed, another intermediate model would have been introduced, this situation could be good, but after that the grynder has no reason to do anything but say that I only do this model and only on that property, and that does not contribute to the problem which is the biggest in the prices of Helsinki's dwellings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u102	Mr President! There is certainly no shortage of all dwellings in Finland, nor in the capital region. We have heard that, among other things, there are a thousand rental apartments in Espoo that would be available at any time. They're just so expensive that people can't take them. Every year, between 5000 and 10000 rental dwellings are removed from our use of rental dwellings. We should really be able to build at a tremendous speed that simply by getting overproduction from rented dwellings we can get the rent level down. There must be other ways, and this intermediate model, which you so love, and which then brought the 30 million return to the insurance companies, is not particularly exciting for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u103	Mr President! There have been so many good speeches here today. In his speech, Mr Honkonen mentioned the decision taken by the Audit Committee — I wonder if it was in February when we decided to carry out a study on the effectiveness of housing policy. The purpose of this study is indeed to find out, among other things, what are the main problems and development needs of social housing and the right-of-occupancy system. This is just one point that I would like to raise, but the intention is to open up a wide-ranging debate and to discuss where we are going at the moment. The Helsinki Council Group, Markku Saarikangas and Helena Kantola, did indeed take the initiative for these module dwellings, so-called container housing. It received a good reception in Helsinki, and many delegates signed the initiative. Indeed, I also made a minister here. A written question on the same subject to the brickie, and he was very supportive of module housing, container housing and making it possible. We need open-minded solutions and open-minded alternatives to solve this temporary and permanent shortage of housing. Yes, everyone must have the roof on their heads, and certainly the debate on affordable housing that has been going on here today — Mr Modig very well opened up in his speech the way in which, among other things, this measurement is being done in Europe, which is the affordable living — we will also be here in the future. But this government proposal is one step forward in improving the production of rental housing, and let's see what this proposal can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u104	Mr President! Of course, the number of dwellings in general has an impact on what is the price of housing, and when there is a shortage of housing, the price of housing will also rise. Above all, of course, there is a shortage of small dwellings in the capital region and especially in Helsinki, and, on the other hand, if only small dwellings are built, it creates the wrong urban structure. As in many international, even larger cities, such hotel city thinking is born, where families no longer live, but only those living alone or in couples. That, of course, is not the aim of a healthy urban structure, and that is why we need a different kind of construction. I personally hope that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will be able to deal with the ten-year mid-term model of the Vapaavuori idea, which is now being brought in slightly amended at this reading. I agree with Mrs Myller that Finland should also talk more about areas of migration loss and also about the fact that we have a lot of areas where living in owner-occupied dwellings is actually becoming impossible for many couples with large plumbing renovations, electrical renovations and balcony, window and other renovations. This is a problem that we also need to solve in some way. In small towns and rural areas, which are also partly built at a good pace, these solutions must also be found for affordable housing, and measures are also coming from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u105	Mr President! We have a variety of housing needs. At the moment, only the most urgent and most important thing affecting people's everyday lives is the cost of living here in the capital region, but, of course, in relation to where the wage level is lower, affordable housing is also needed. It has become very clear that there is a need for affordable housing everywhere, which is what we must not forget. Currently, 30 per cent of Finnish residents' housing costs exceed 40 per cent of their income. I'm sure this isn't affordable. Then we need a genuine housing policy, a genuine urban policy. At the moment, our housing policy is very much subordinate to employment policy, when it is subordinate to economic policy, but it would be extremely good to see what kind of housing we need here in Finland, who needs the housing and who does not need it, as it is at present very far, the accumulation of assets and the transfer of profits from one place to another. There is a great deal to think about here, though, about how to really make homes, and how to develop a Finnish community model in this way, so that we can have a better life in that respect too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u106	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u107	President! It is the third time that Parliament's plenary session has dealt with the annual report of the Board of Directors. The tradition of the annual report began from 2013. The time to discuss Yle's activity report is the most optimal. Last autumn, after all, Parliament dealt with the 14th report and was, in that sense, very late on schedule. This optimism to hold this debate right now is particularly compounded by the fact that the debate around Yle is currently extremely lively and that the Government Programme includes the creation of a parliamentary working party on the role and funding of Yle's public service. And, as we know, this working group has already, at the end of last year, been working under the chairmanship of Mr Arto Satose and has been granted an extension until the end of June. Understandably, the streetman very often thinks that the board of directors elected by Parliament is dealing with programme policy and affects the content of programmes. However, there is a firewall between programme policy and the Management Board, and the content of the programmes is not part of the Management Board. It is up to the Board of Directors to elect and release each year the Board of Directors and its Chairman and to decide on matters relating to the significant reduction or expansion of the company’s operations. It is also up to the Governing Board to ensure and monitor the proper performance of the public service tasks and also to carry out an ex ante evaluation of services and activities in relation to the public service and the overall communication market as well as to their compliance with the democratic, social and cultural needs of society. It is also up to the Board of Directors to decide on the financial and operational guidelines, to approve and review the Board's annual report, to supervise the management of the company and to issue an opinion to the General Meeting on the audit report — and, of course, this report by the Board of Directors. President! Yle, as has been said, is a public service company. The public service is a wide-ranging service that builds society in many ways. This public service, which Yle is engaged in, also strengthens the equality of citizens. This is the whole idea of public service and is also enshrined in many European documents. In principle, a public service that promotes equality between citizens requires three basic objectives: Firstly, the public service must achieve an adequate coverage in terms of population and geographical coverage. The public service must be diverse in terms of content and publication. In addition, the public must feel that the public service is a reliable and credible media actor. The three conditions — coverage, versatility and reliability — must be sufficiently fulfilled to enable the public service company to successfully carry out any of the tasks assigned to it. This is a prerequisite for larger tasks covering society and culture as a whole, as well as for more targeted specific tasks or specific groups of services. These starting points are also a prerequisite for the membership of the European Broadcasting Association (Ebu). Yle is a member of the EBU, and EBUHAN is familiar to all the people, at least the Finns are regrettably familiar with the often sad Eurovision Song Contests. Compliance with the basic conditions begins with coverage. Geographically, Yle's services cover the whole country on the same terms as in practice, on the one hand, it makes sense or is possible. In Finland, distribution coverage obligations are stricter than in any other Nordic or UK country. Online services are also available to the public more equally than in most control countries due to Finland’s relatively good telecommunications networks. In this respect: Thus, even internationally, Yle meets the basic criterion of coverage very well. Yle does not aim for market leadership, but the company’s goal is to reach as many Finns as possible, even with some content. Last year Yle reached 72 per cent every day with its services and practically all Finns on an annual basis. The daily reach of Yle is similar to that of Nordic sister companies. The Nordic figures are among the highest in Europe. The Ministry of Transport conducts an annual study on the diversity of Finnish television channels. This study shows that Finnish TV channels in general and Yle's TV channels in particular offer diverse content to citizens. The special feature of Yle’s TV channels is that strong journalism, news, topical and topical programmes are offered in prime time. This differs from a number of analogue countries whose primary time offers also highlight entertainment, films and drama. Reliability is Yle's third stone base. According to measurements, Yle's trademark, the Yle brand, is considered reliable among Finns. According to a survey carried out last year on the value of Yle for Finns, 77% trust Yle very much or quite much. According to measurements, Yle News has even increased its reliability index last year. 92 per cent of Finns reported that they trust Yle’s news at least quite much, half of Finns very much. In addition, half of Finns considered Yle’s news service the most important news source. In particular, Yle's TV news position was strengthened from the previous year. Although the use of online media is increasing, Yle’s TV news last year was the most important news source for 37 per cent of Finns. Finns therefore feel very strongly that Yle's communication and content can be trusted. That's the way it's supposed to be. This is one of the most important expectations of the public. To sum up, YLE performed well on the basic public service conditions, i.e. coverage, versatility and reliability. It must also be said that in countries with strong and well-organised broadcasting, freedom of expression and diversity of the media field, as a general rule, they are well-placed. But then a few words about the supply of Yle last year, we are dealing specifically with the annual report of Yle's Board of Directors from last year. The position of television and radio remains fairly stable. Yle’s TV channels reached 57 per cent of Finns over the age of four and radio 40 per cent. Yle TV1 is still the most popular TV channel and Radio Finland is the most listened radio channel. Yle Arena, on the other hand, is the most prestigious network brand in Finland. With its online services, Yle reached 18 per cent of people over the age of 15 on average every day. Finns use the websites of international online services, such as Google and Facebook, as well as domestic tabloids. The biggest investments in the supply of upper secondary education last year were the Parliamentary elections. Policy content was made on radio, television and the network in new and old ways. In particular, the election gallery, presented in Finnish, Swedish and Sami, attracted international interest and praise. Sibelius’s 150th anniversary program and the new domestic drama also attracted international interest. Yle’s regional service and coverage improved last year as regional TV and radio broadcasts received more time. Yle started regional TV news in Lapland and Pirkanmaa, which raised the number of regional TV news broadcasts in Finnish to ten. The services of special groups are at the heart of the public service. Yle improved the accessibility of services last year by making more sign language programs for deaf people. The news and sports website improved for the visually impaired, and the plain news was also brought to television. Yle increased the number of procurements from domestic production companies, and especially investments in quality and internationalisation were made. At the same time, it should be noted that, in addition to the completed programmes, Yle buys a lot of different jobs in the creative and digital sector, pays copyright fees to workers in the creative sector, buys various production services and is strongly involved in product development, both in content and in new services, which benefits players in various sectors and, of course, also has a significant employment impact. The strong role of the digital and creative engine is one of Yle's tasks. The digital media revolution will not stop here, but the change will continue to be strong. Yle’s task is to take risks, take product development forward and ensure that Finnish people’s ability to follow the world’s events, participate in the discussion, learn, culture and enjoy themselves will also remain high quality in the world of changing media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u108	Mr President! Indeed, everything contained in this report was already evident from the speech made by Kimmo Kivelä, President of the Management Board. Let me raise a few points here. I would like to thank Mr Kivelä for his speech. According to the report, 77 per cent of Finns trust Yle very much or quite much, and it is a large part of people. I personally welcome the fact that the report highlights these special groups in particular, and, as the President-in-Office mentioned, sign-language TV news and Yle News in plain English are those that have also been improved, and apparently this has been in line with previous policies. Thus, more sign language programs have been made and the availability of the news and sports website has been improved for the visually impaired, for example. In addition to the radio and the network, many user groups were also served by the open news. The content of the programme does not belong to the Governing Board, but nostalgic series are needed by people, especially those who are there in front of the television almost all day long, and those people are there. Among other things, the days of elderly people in nursing institutions consist of the opening and monitoring of television or radio in the morning. It's the only window in the outside world that's going on out there. Traditions already respect that Yle is there a channel that spins, and older people like to follow the news there as well as these different series. Yle Areena is a really good network arena, and if you could say something to improve it, it is that perhaps if you could find these programs a little easier to find on the Yle Arena site, they would then be even better available there. This report by the Board of Directors is a good cross-section, and it is very nice to read.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u109	Mr President! This report from the YLE Board of Directors to Parliament on the company’s activities in 2015 is quite well prepared and gives a pretty good overall picture of Yle’s activities last year. I myself am currently a fresh member of the General Board of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and it has also been interesting to get to know this annual report from that point of view. But the biggest thing that bothers me personally and many other citizens in the work of Yle and in that great line of action at the moment is that Yle unfortunately does not fulfil its task of fair, neutral and universal information. In the light of all the public feedback I have received and my own experience, this annual report paints too rosy a picture of Yle and the people's satisfaction with Yle's activities. In recent years, broadcasting has been highly multicultural, as can be seen, for example, in point 3.4 of the last year's report. Among other things, this paragraph states: "In children's programmes, multiculturalism is defined as a specific aspect of the programme's work." Such an emphasis on a particular political ideology, i.e. multiculturalism, in the media of Yle, naturally stems partly from the current Yle legislation, in which Yle's task is to promote multiculturalism. In my opinion, Mr President, this kind of ideological coercion is clearly wrong. On the basis of this annual report, the future of broadcasting also seems to be worrying in the sense that the idea of describing multiculturalism as a purely positive phenomenon is still to be increased in such a way that representatives of different ethnic minorities are to be increased to programme makers, participants and experts in the future. Personally, I very much hope that Yle will not choose programmers and programme participants on the basis of ethnic background. Indeed, it is racism to choose journalists or experts for programmes on ethnic grounds. I therefore hope that this entry in the annual report will be some kind of slip-up and that the authors will be selected precisely on the basis of their qualifications. In addition, ethnic segregation easily creates a gap between the general population and ethnic minorities and does not bring different people closer together according to Yle’s goals. When looking at the activities of Yle, attention must also be paid to how YLE treats — and unfortunately, at the moment discriminates — the political players in their communications. This is evident, for example, in Yle’s press and in the public disapproval of fundamental Finnish politicians and their sayings. This is a matter that truly amazes the citizens, because politicians in the impressive positions of other parties have also proved to have expressed at least as questionable positions, but the cases have been completely ignored in Yle. This is where I find a number of examples if anyone wants to know more about it. Mr President! In general, the Western journalistic view includes the idea that citizens must have the right to free and wide-ranging information. This principle must also apply where the information transmitted conflicts with the personal views and attitudes of the supplier providing the information. Unfortunately, some Western journalists also succumb to appropriate communication. It is clear that Yle's credibility as an intermediary suffers as a result of biased communication. Yle must not feed the people ideologically colored news and programme offerings, but must be as fair, neutral, objective, impartial, taking into account a number of different aspects and thus serving the people as a whole. Mr President! I hope that this parliamentary working group on the future of Yle will now take these considerations into account, and I have in fact heard that this has also happened. I very much hope that Yle's action will bring about a change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u111	Mr President! Mr Immonen's speech is historic. It is precisely such strong speeches, in which the Parliament of the owners of the Finnish Broadcasting Company takes a stand on the content of the Finnish Broadcasting Company's programme, that have not, as far as I know, been heard here in Parliament before.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u114	Mr President! To this fear of multiculturalism, I would like to say that I find it a little strange that it is the Finns who are most critical and say that Yle is biased and politically motivated, i.e. non-independent, and it is the Finns who are most concerned about what kind of programme content the Finnish Broadcasting Company should be making. Either they want independent Yle or they don't. Make up your mind. I hope that my YLE is multicultural because Finland is multicultural. It has been so long before the flow of refugees that we have at hand has arrived here. We have had the Tatars, we have had the Saamis, we have had the Finnish-Swedish population, we have had the Jewish population — we are a truly multicultural people. And I hope that Yle's catalogue shows our diversity and the whole range of cultures that belong to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u115	Mr President! Congressman Kantola wasn't exactly at the heart of the matter. In my view, Immonen did not take a position on the content but took a position on the line, on the line by which it is produced. And that line and taking a position on it is a matter for the Governing Board, in accordance with its mandate — what there is democratic communication and equity and so forth. If there is a problem with that line, then it is up to the Management Board to take a position. As far as multiculturalism is concerned, multiculturalism can be perceived in many ways. And what Mr Modig has said is the typical error of argument, which is invoked to lead to another interpretation, that is to say, what is multiculturalism or multiculturalism. The fact that many cultures have existed in Finland for centuries is not the same as today's multicultural ideology, which we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u116	Reply, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u117	Thank you, Mr President. We are quite similar to Mr Zyskowicz, so I am taking part in this speech on his behalf, but he is not responsible for the content. I have to say to Mr Kantola that I have sometimes heard here in these various committee debates that it has not been the custom to intervene in this type of matter. The people have now chosen a lot of new MPs here, but the Finns are the second largest party in Parliament. We may have some fresh and new arguments. However, we have always acted properly here, and we do not use vague language. I think we have a right to speak, too. Secondly, I do not think that we can have a general public radio policy that we should not discuss here at all. It must be possible to discuss everything in society, especially in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u118	Mr President! Here, for example, I can say to Mr Immonen that I think you are very wrong, but I respect your right to be of the opinion you are. I think it is also quite right that there should also be a critical debate if that is to be the case. I think it's okay. And I do not think Yle is on a pedestal to discuss that too. But if we are talking about multiculturalism and monoculture, then I agree with Mr Modig: Finland is multicultural, Finland has in fact never been monocultural. For example, here, two representatives of the ethnic majority, we are now discussing issues on which we very much disagree. There is a wide-ranging social debate here, regardless of what our background is or something else. The fact that: Yle supports multiculturalism in its activities and tries to highlight it, I think it is reasonable because it is part of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u119	Mr President! I think Mr Immonen has spoken well and well, and I see it as defending Yle himself, that we are also discussing Yle critically. Immonen does not question in any way that we do not need the YLE, but that is the line he called for. We all know when we look at and listen to Yle's programmes, speech programmes, that they are quite liberal. There are not very many conservative people of social opinion there, but, as a rule, these regular performers and commentators in these programmes — these programme makers — represent liberal opinions, and it is visible and heard several times a week. And, as we know, repeating in propaganda is the key element, and it must be critical. If you find someone
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u120	Mr President! If individual journalists do something that someone interprets as "false" in the wrong place to take a stand, then it is then a matter for the Public Word Council to judge if journalists in some way exceed their powers. But we have independent media in Finland, and it is important that we keep it independent. I personally believe that there are a great many kinds of content available on the YLE. There are many things that I personally disagree with when Yle takes a stand. But I would like to stress that: Yle is not an organisation whose job is to take a stand. It's an organization whose job is to communicate. It fulfils its national legal obligation. But when a position is taken, it is linked to a program that, for example, is intended to bring out different positions. And I would like to point out that then, as the Finnish Broadcasting Agency, we do not take a stand, but, for example, in the discussion programme, the people who are discussing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u121	In this part of the debate, ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to Mr Kantola and Mr Modig, and if Mr Immonen wishes to open the debate with a reply, I will also give him the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u122	Mr President! Mr Meri, Mr Immonen, when I took the floor to comment on Mr Immonen's speech, I did not mean to say that everyone here is not free to speak. As far as I know, I didn't say anything like that. I simply said that this is the first time I have heard this type of speech, and I simply said that this is the case. I appreciate the criticism of the YLE here. It and the presentation of different opinions are part of this institution. Let us have freedom of speech, and I am also prepared to defend that freedom of speech. As far as the terms'multiculturalism' and'multiculturalism' are concerned, the terms used here in the debate are not laid down in the Broadcasting Act, nor is it defined by the Broadcasting Act as the promotion of multiculturalism, whatever it may be. When I was the chairman of the General Board of the Finnish Broadcasting Company last year, I also received a lot of feedback from the public: when was it accused that the Finnish Broadcasting Company was completely in the hands of the Coalition Party and that the propaganda it led comes from there, when it was accused of being completely in the possession of the demos and it is red propaganda, and everything in between. We will hear different opinions about who is in possession and under whose political direction the YLE is. That is precisely why what is important is what Mr Kivelä, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u123	And now for the reply, Mr Modig. - I'm sorry I had to come on top of you. When you're pretty much overstepping, you have to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u124	Mr President! Representative Saarakkala called for examples of what would be conservative commentary on Yle. I can't define what's conservative and what's not. I believe that there are people who feel conservative and who can still think very differently about things. I am trying to set an example of questions that may be related to the values that I and Mrs Saarakkala have seen differently during our working relationship, and I am reminded of the equal marriage law. I find it very conservative that the Finnish Broadcasting Company refused to speak of an equal marriage law, but persistently talked to the end about a gender-neutral marriage law. I'm sure we all have our own views on words, echoes, connoisseurs and all that, but yes, I would say that Yle is very vocal and speaks at the mouth of all of us. If we have all been annoyed at something the Finnish Broadcasting Company is saying, it should already tell us about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u125	Mr President! I think it is at least important for us to have a debate here on what the big line of the YLE should be. I therefore believe that this debate is important and I will certainly continue to do so. It does not surprise me at all that these views, which defend multiculturalism, are now coming precisely from the left side. This multicultural agenda of YLE serves your political and ideological goals. This multicultural agenda has now been defended by the fact that multiculturalism is the status quo in Finland. Well, how do you see when it is said in socialist countries that socialism is the status quo and that is the way to go? This is, of course, how you want to see things. I personally call for Yle's information and programme provision to be neutral, objective, not to promote a particular ideology, such as multi-culturalism in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u126	Now we move on to the actual list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u127	Mr President! I am not a member of Yle's Board of Directors, but I am taking advantage of this situation because there is an opportunity here to discuss the issues of universal radio, which is clearly important to all of us. The present report also shows the wide-ranging change that digitalisation has brought to the communications and content sectors and to the YLE. For example, the transformation of people’s media usage habits and the platform economy are challenging the entire media. This phenomenon is particularly strongly reflected in commercial media. Even the public has responded to these challenges of change and, for example, to a tighter economic situation by reforming its operations, concentrating its regional news, producing new online media content, and engaging in more extensive business cooperation. The independent broadcasting body fulfils not only its statutory functions of national importance but also balances the market, enables the necessary non-commercial content which would otherwise not be available, ensures that special groups that are important for the integrity of society are taken into account and, for its part, secures an independent media field and diverse and as neutral as possible communication. Broadcasting is also an important promoter and guardian of democracy. This has been the focus of recent attention throughout Europe, where the independence and freedom of the media are widely discussed — or in some cases the weakening of this freedom and the increase in political control. Examples of countries where media independence and space have been reduced are worrying. It is in Finland’s interest that the Finnish Broadcasting Company is sufficiently resourced to operate in Finland. This will hopefully be remembered when the role and role of Yle are being considered in the parliamentary working group. Of course, there will continue to be a need for a diverse field of different and different sized commercial media, which should also be encouraged to operate adequately. If we also want more export performance from our media expertise, we need to develop the conditions for the media industry to operate vigorously from now on. Indeed, the media that work in different ways complements the different media formats. What is essential is that the Finnish media landscape we are looking for in our daily media stays diverse. Yle can also act as a strategic tool and enabler. By targeting service orders for different companies, for example, it can strengthen the vitality of the regions and support entrepreneurship. Whether it is the producers of indie productions, films, series productions, orders from small animation studios or the production of content on the network, the expertise found in our country should be used more widely. Our companies also need proof of their skills. A good example of this is cooperation between Yle, University of Applied Sciences and private production companies at different levels in Tampere Mediapolis, including content production. Of course, there is also a need for and will continue to be a diverse production of YLE. Yle can also act as a fascist and convening party if, for example, we would like to build a wider national content platform for different actors. At least this is something to consider. At the moment, all the content platforms we use are very much controlled by large foreign companies. I believe that the Management Board is a natural place to discuss these issues as well. It may be necessary to strengthen its position as long as the policy does not leave Yle's actual content and does not compromise the media's independence and equality of all. And referring to the debate on the obligation of multiculturalism which has just taken place in this Chamber on the Finnish Broadcasting Company, I repeat my comment that my Yle is multicultural, because Finland is multicultural, but journalism is independent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u128	Mr President! The entire media field is currently in a state of transformation. Digitalisation has revolutionised the whole field and has also changed the earning logic of many players. In my opinion, print media is at the end of its path, and the time when the print sells in the same way and in the same income logic as before is pointless. That train's gone. But the fact that commercial media have not been able to develop their operations to meet the challenges of the new digital media will not be solved by weakening YLE. Lobbying against the YLE is extremely hard at the moment. An image has been created that Yle's grown too big, and she's not. Ylen has had to adapt in any way, like other actors in the sector or like the rest of society. That is not true. Over the past few years, Yle has had negotiations and people have also been reduced by other measures. The operations have been stepped up and assets have been sold. The idea that Yle would be independent of the challenges of the rest of society is not true. The future of Yle is currently being discussed in a parliamentary working group. I hope the members of the working group understand the importance of Yle to civilisation and the quality of the entire Finnish media field. On this point, I do wonder that the meeting of this important working group has been scheduled at the same time as the Yle report is being discussed here in plenary. In connection with this report, it is possible to have, as we have been doing, a broader debate on the role and role of Yle, and the participation of the members of the working group in this debate would have been highly desirable. This meeting at the same time, this choice, I can only marvel and regret. Mr President! I see that it is very important that the funding of Yle continues to remain outside the state framework. It is essential for Yle to remain independent. If Yle’s funding is a pawn on the table every time a government budget is made, its independence is at stake. To my shock, I have witnessed how the people in this Chamber, but also the members of the Yle Group, have told us what kind of programme content they think Yle should be making.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u131	Mr President! When I missed a few things in the debat, I'm going to say this right here. So as a comment to Mrs Parviainen: the Public Word Council is a self-regulating body, a kind of comrade court that is missing, if there is any, in the individual abuse, not in the editorial general line that has now been discussed. With regard to the editorial board, by the way, in 2012, there was such news of a study of the political views of the journalists. The title of the study was that the Greens is the favorite party for journalists. According to the study, more than half of the journalists could never vote for the Basic Finns. It is absolutely absurd to claim that such a big difference of opinion would not have any effect on the media and cloud the objectivity of the news. This is worth noting: even a journalist is a human being. But to the point. At the end of November last year, Parliament discussed the freezings of the Yle-Tax index. At the time, I took the floor to call on the YLE not only for this rather skilful austerity movement, but also for other measures to improve efficiency and to highlight the need to correct it. My question now is: has the Finnish Broadcasting Company since then started to focus more on its basic task, which justifies the collection of the Yle-Tax from the citizens? Have we tried to get rid of the manipulation of opinion, the cliché journalism and the search for coops? Has there been an attempt at independent news coverage, investigative journalism, in-depth analysis and background, as I requested then? Mr President! In his speech, Mr Immonen raised important and worrying points of view. It is to be hoped that the public radio will listen with a sensitive ear to the views of the member of its board of directors as well as other parliamentarians about their activities. Answering these questions is essential. Yle also produces a lot of good programs. You don't want to go down the bottom with a bad one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u132	Mr President! The station and role of the radio talk all the time. We have set up a parliamentary working group to examine, among other things, what should be part of the public service mission and how the operation of the YLE can be improved and improved. At present, the Finnish Broadcasting Company is far too expensive. I'm still working on it, but I expect it to produce results. I am a member of Yle's Board of Directors and I have expressed my views there, and here is one. Has Yle succeeded in being independent and balanced? That has already been asked a few times in this Chamber today. In particular, the issue of equity in news coverage raises questions. The report of the Board of Directors states on page 32 that "Finnish people's confidence in Yle's news activities was further strengthened". However, when we return to page 23, we find a contradiction that can tell us that the news is not considered to be fair. The text states: "At the same time, there is likely to be a growing trend in which some Finns seek alternative sources of information rather than mainstream media." The reason is also clear, because immigration issues were increasingly raised. The radio is seen as part of a red - green bubble. Now, we don't just need to worry about the YLE, we really need to do something. There is absolutely no point in campaigning against alternative media, for only those same alternative media will benefit from it. We prefer to do better work in the news and, above all, it is important to see equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u133	Mr President! Liberalism—Conservatism is the most important watershed in current politics. Yle has chosen his side in this respect. The standard commentators of its discussion programmes are organised liberally because they express very liberal opinions. I don't understand why Yle doesn't launch some talk show that's being run by a conservative. There could even be a discussion programme where all the debaters would be more or less conservative, because similar versions of liberal configurations already exist. In my opinion, the current approach of Yle to promote multiculturalism is purely political and therefore ideological, unless it also includes the introduction of conservative ideas, not only by taking a current conservative view with a group to be amazed and left to rest on the part of the liberals alone. This pattern is repeated in Yle's programs every week, in fact several times a week. Well, in propaganda, it's all a and a. It would be a shame that such a misappropriation More generally, we must start to take a critical view of Yle's activities, but it is impossible to ignore and ignore Yle's totality in the ideological interpretation and promotion of multiculturalism. Mr President! Yle is a necessary actor in providing information and insights. It's got a really big power. It is therefore necessary to ask whether the current Yle is a responsible operator who is up-to-date with its tasks. It has come to my mind that at least at the end of Helsinki Yle lives on the principle of "this is our sandbox, we do what we want, do not come and spoil our games". Kaarina Hazardin Yle, a journalist who has received a decision from the Council, has rewarded her as a standard debater on social issues on a weekly basis. Of course, Rakel Flame, known for adult entertainment, is so distinguished that we see him on several shows every week. Perhaps this is about positive special treatment and its new content and interpretation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u134	Mr President! Of course, this question of Yle's liberalism or conservativeism is interesting, and I can agree with Mrs Saarakkala's wish that... In my opinion, multiculturalism should also mean that not only liberal values or their reflections, but also conservative views can be seen on Yle's channels, and I believe that this desire and promotion of this kind is genuinely multicultural. Citizens must have the opportunity to mirror their views on different views, which will then be reflected in discussions and other programmes on the YLE. Mr President! The role of the public radio is being discussed, its financing and possible needs to change the Broadcasting Act, and the background to this big debate is, of course, the very great difficulties of commercial media in coping with tough competition and in a highly changed operating environment, due to digitalisation, internationalisation, technological change and perhaps, above all, to a weaker market and economic situation, where the conditions for advertising sales are much lower than in good times of economic upturn. It is clear that the diversity of the media in Finland as a goal means that we must also have a living commercial, private media available to viewers and citizens. This is our common concern. And what can be done to ensure that the commercial media can do better — I am sure that we will hear from them today when I see who is sitting in this Chamber. What is the effect of YLE on commercial media’s difficulties in this situation? That is certainly what the working group led by Mr Satose is currently assessing, and some studies, including international studies, have been carried out. Mr President! I would like to highlight a couple of points from this report by the Board of Directors of YLE, which describe the relationship between YLE and commercial media in an interesting way. The first is on page 79, where there is such a graph, a pole description of the way in which the funding of public service broadcasters has been provided in certain countries comparable to us. This revealed well the obvious fact that in Finland, the Finnish Broadcasting Company is not financed in the least by advertising. This is prohibited and defined by law, so that YLE cannot collect advertising revenue to finance its operations. We could just imagine how delicious it would be to sell five minutes of advertising time on the 4:30 news, I bet there'd be buyers. But this is prohibited by law, and this means that there is no competition on the advertising market for the YLE in the sense that it would seek some income for itself. And I hope that this will continue with regard to YLE, even if some changes are made, that the YLE will not be allowed to enter the advertising market but will be financed in another way. Larger or smaller funding, it is a place for tough debate, but not on the advertising market, such as Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland all receive part of their income through the sale of advertisements. Mr President! Another important point, in my view, which relates to the debate on the relationship between Broadcasting and Commercial Media, is on page 52 of the Governing Board's report, which describes the distribution of the types of programmes on different TV channels in Finland. And when you start with the headlines Culture, News, Sport, Asia, Children and then you end up on the Movies and Real Television side,you see that the culture side of the public radio is a major investment compared to commercial media. News, current, sport still has a greater focus than commercial media — and on agendas and also on children’s programmes. But when you come to domestic fiction, foreign fiction, entertainment and music, through movies to reality television, then the proportion of commercial TV channels will increase accordingly and the proportion of Yleisradio, public service, will decrease. In other words, this market, in which all television channels broadcast programmes, appears to be quite clearly divided into the fact that commercial media have a slightly different type of weighting — or clearly a different type of weighting — than a public service company. We do not work in the same programme area or format, but in the case of the YLE, we have developed a legal distribution based on the interest of viewers and advertisers in commercial media, and I think it is important to bear this in mind when considering how much we interfere with each other, how much YLE interferes with commercial media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u135	Mr President! Finland—Denmark 5—1. Finland got into medal games, and the sender was MTV3. It is a good thing that commercial television also broadcasts these important games, but of course Yle is also obliged to send major sporting events, which gather the entire population. It's just the show that's important to the viewer relationship. Among other things, the Olympic Games come now from Rio, and after all, the World Cup from Beijing and the Young World Championships from Helsinki, such as broadcasts that unite the nation. However, if we were to talk about the subject of the day itself, namely the annual report of the General Radio Board. First of all, I must say that how many times do you get to talk about individual programmes on the Management Board, but the Management Board is not the Programme Council. At one time there were programme councils on Yle’s radio, and there was a very detailed discussion of Yle’s programmes. Our role on the Board of Directors is to draw the YLE's activities on a large penssel, and Yle's operational management and government will then carry out Yle's activities on journalistic grounds, as has been said here. I listened with interest to the criticisms of the Finns. It's the way it is in the United States that conservatives have Fox TV and then liberals have CNN. So when you look at both of them, you can get some idea of what's about there in gray. Yes, I agree with Mr Kantola's view that YLE must change according to the world, including multiculturalism, but must also bring the views of the large majority of the Finnish people, the views of the silent majority that there are different perspectives. But on the other hand, when we talk about the role of the YLE, oatmeals and vellets should not get mixed up in what Yle is and what the content of the program is there. I, too, could criticise many of the programmes that journalism has been carried out there, for example, now just one attitudeful programme of up-to-date broadband in rural areas, how it has failed. On the Cape Island it was done. Fortunately, Mr Pekkarinen then had the right to speak and on television corrected the false claims it made. I do not think that this is the right way to go about stamping out, thinking ahead of time about what is being said about something, and then we go into the programme, interviewing people who will certainly support the views of this journalist. But as far as Yle’s activities are concerned, the public service remains the same, given that there is less money, and it is significant, which means that Yle’s belt has been tightened. The reachability of radio and TV has remained broadly unchanged, while the reachability of online content has increased by a total of 16%. This is the kind of thing that has also provoked commercial media that Yle is so strong now online. I would say quite objectively that the websites of commercial media are often much more colorful and attractive than Yle, but of course it might be good to go in the direction that Atte Jääskeläinen has suggested that commercial media and newspapers, for example, should have access to the content of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, moving images and so on, and Yle would serve as a platform for the entire Finnish media. Maybe that's what we're gonna do. Yle Areena was once again valued in the measurement of economic research, and the most prestigious, domestic network brand. 76 per cent of Finns find Yle’s services at least as interesting, and trust in Yle’s news activities has been strengthened. I've been a reporter on TV at a time when ad-TV didn't have any news yet, on MTV, and that's when they laughed about what, for MTV? But in the end they did, and I think it has been a good thing. This competition in the news has even improved the position of the YLE news because I think that the MTV and even the 4th news are quite well delivered and are important for communication and democracy, that there are different kinds of newscasts. So much so that Ylehan started regional TV news now in Lapland and Pirkanmaa, and I must thank as a Member of Parliament from Tampere for the fact that Pirkanmaa also has its own regional news, because Häme is such a big area that you must remember that Pirkanmaa is its own area, and Lapland is also a very similar area that it does not come from Oulu. The start-up of the Yle Arena was significantly more than in the previous year, about 30 million per month, and indeed, although it is past, it is the future, and I am very pleased about the action of the Arena. These music clips, which we hear about the past in Living Archives, are also very important things of national cultural value. The fact that Yle acquires content from producers for EUR 27.4 million is a good thing. Yle is very important as a catalyst for Finnish music and film production and many other cultures, and I hope that the indie goal, which we will probably want to raise in that working group, will be improved and we will have enough indie companies that can produce that undergrowth and those programs. Indeed, in the future we will be faced with radical changes in radio and television, and yet everything a and o is that Yle will continue to produce journalism, culture, learning and sport and will also strengthen its role in a digitalising world. As far as the public service debate is concerned, it is happening all over Europe. This is because of this new media world, because competition is becoming increasingly intense internationally — and perhaps in some countries newspaper houses were sleeping when action should have been taken. Of course, newspaper houses impose restrictions on broadcasting, hoping that this would make their situation easier. This debate is now taking place in Central Europe and also in relation to the BBC. It is difficult to access Google and other international mammoths that have taken the advertising money, which are the real reason for the plight of TV and magazine companies. However, the fact that Yle would be worse off would not help commercial media. The aim of commercial media houses in many countries has been to make public service broadcasting a narrow task that complements the market, as it is in the United States, this public TV. The special feature is that Finland has this poor economy, and this debate would certainly not be so hard on words if there were not such a difficult situation in the private sector when advertising money does not come. However, public service broadcasting is a communication policy decision. We in this Parliament, as parliamentarians, will decide whether we want this Yle. Yle also has the task of supporting democracy and strengthening Finnish culture — and without advertisements, as Mr Kantola said. We do not want the YLE to enter the advertising market, even though many broadcasters in Central Europe are also taking away the small amount of advertising money. Yle also serves language minorities and hearing impaired people. Yle is a strong regional, regional information relay that complements communication with regional newspapers and local newspapers. In the past, Pekka Silvola, former Party Secretary of the Finnish Association, who was the programme director of Yle — he was the boss when I worked at Yle — said that remember that it is always important for Finland’s rural and rural areas that we also have the YLE, which complements what the local or regional newspaper says. If we were only on the basis of one main magazine, time, you can say, thin that view would be. A wide range of programs are indeed available through Indi, but also for music, sport and film YLE is important. I have told many of these artists at Teosto's meetings and others that defend Yle, Yle is of great importance because it is often also a guide to what music plays in Finland, and it costs a great deal of copyright compensation — yet, at least for the time being. Indeed, I was talking about that customer relationship or the viewer- and listener relationship, and it has been criticised that Yle is now sending some HBO programs or American serial entertainment. I think it's on the line, too, that it belongs to Yle. I personally look straight at HBO and Netflix, but I think there are some high-quality TV shows that Yle must have the right to join. And, above all, that sport is of great importance. Domestic ball games, for example, are very important — no one else would care if Yle did not care. Indeed, the same things are being discussed in Europe. There is a tough debate in Germany; Norway has called for NRK to be dismantled, but in March Stortinget decided that NRK will not be driven down there. Similarly, the report of the Swedish radio and television authorities, MRTV, was based on the fact that SVT and Sveriges Radio will remain in position and will not be driven down. Public service companies operate in these countries in such a way that they do not prevent competing operators from starting, operating and developing media activities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u136	President! This debate, as well as the feedback that the previous Chairman of the Board of Directors has certainly received, shows that both in this Chamber and among the citizens, there really is such a strong hatred — a love relationship with Yle — but this debate reveals that there is a broad consensus on the need for Yle and also on the speciality of Yle. When there is criticism of a certain attitude, such criticism must certainly be received, but there must also be no ogres everywhere. Not that it is reported that the sun rises at 5.45, even though the sun rises from the east, is an attitudeal news. But the truth is, we don't need to go back to the programming council era. It was absolutely crazy when, under the guise of minute democracy, the parties jealously watched one another, whether one minute or two more time on Yle's show than the other. Fortunately, such a disease has been eradicated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u137	Mr President! I drew attention to the description given by Mrs Alatalo at the beginning of her speech about the way Atte Jääskeläinen, the Director of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, had considered that Yle might be able to share the content more widely with the news media. This has been discussed in what way it could be such a synergy, but I noticed that from the Helsingin Sanomat point of view it was considered a little questionable, and one consequence of this might be that international communications companies, such as Google, would introduce these content. Finland would hardly be able to limit this sharing of Yle's content only to Finnish, domestic media, but it might be that the international media would then have access to it and become more of a problem for Finnish media. There are many aspects here that need to be considered, but that is certainly worth considering.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u138	One more reply, Mr Alatalo, and then we will move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u139	In reply, Mr President, to Mr Kantola: indeed, there are copyright issues and many other things that are not so simple. But let me remind you that now, within the EU, for example, Finland's programmes can be viewed across Europe, such a directive is. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : if Mr Alatalo turned into a microphone,the vote could be heard and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u143	Mr President! A few picks from the very extensive report of Yle's Board of Directors. The public service mission includes reliability and independence from the political cycle. Yle’s services are considered reliable, and Yle’s work has been quite successful. The role of the public service is to support democracy, democracy, regional cultures and to take account of the age groups. As has just been mentioned, the addition of sign language programs is a good thing, as have the visually impaired, especially on sports sites, and the hearing impaired have this news. And it comes to mind that last year we celebrated Sibelius's 150th anniversary and were able to watch the Kullervo ballet on television. And some wishes: There has also been talk here about these devotion programmes, and I think it is important to keep the practice programmes on both radio and television. Especially the morning and evening devotions have been very popular, and I wish there were more of these spiritual programs for both adults and children, because our country is a Christian nation. 77 per cent of Finns trust Yle very or quite much. Confidence has fallen from the previous year, when it was 87 per cent. Yle Radio Finland is still the most listened radio channel and Yle TV1 is the most watched television channel in Finland. The provision of public channels is clearly different from commercial channels. Yle invests more in factual, topical, news and cultural programmes, and the proportion of children's programmes, as I mentioned earlier, is clearly higher than that of commercial operators on average, as well as in sport and domestic fiction. The development of Mediapolis as a centre for the creative sector in Pirkanmaa received a new impetus when Yle, Tampere University of Applied Sciences, Technopolis, Aito Tehdas and Aito Media decided to organise themselves as a co-operative at the beginning of 2016. The purpose of the cooperative is to promote cooperation between its members and to develop the media sector. More than 30 organisations already operate in Mediapolis and there are nearly 2,000 people working there, including 500 media students. Then it is also the statutory task of YLE to provide more detailed information to the authorities to be regulated by the regulation and to prepare for the management of television and radio activities. A study on the possibility of regional radio and television broadcasts under exceptional circumstances has been launched. The aim is to speed up the flow of hazard reports from emergency centres to Yle and other actors involved in the publication. The system is to be fully completed with the gradual introduction of the Erica system of emergency centres. Yle has also increased its efficiency quite strongly throughout the 2000s, including a reduction in the number of people in almost one quarter. A new, enhanced approach will be introduced towards the end of this year. Yle aims to reduce its premises by 40% by 2020. By reducing farms and improving the efficiency of space use, Yle releases resources for the development of content. At the end of 2015, Yle signed a lease with VR. Finally, in October 2015, the Minister of Transport and Communications set up a parliamentary working group to evaluate the role and funding of Yle, and this should then be completed by the end of May if everything goes well. The scope of Yle's public service, its implementation, the level of funding and the assessment of how Parliament's corporate governance is implemented in YLE must also be examined. In addition, the working group assessed Yle's role and importance in the media market and the company's role in terms of democracy, freedom of expression and the diversity and independence of communication. That we wait for these things in our time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u144	Mr President! To begin with, I have received greetings from the meeting of the Yle parliamentary working group. We had a meeting today, we have a meeting tomorrow. We have been meeting closely for almost six months and hopefully we will have something ready for the summer. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kivelä. As Chairman of the General Board of Generals, he has been very up-to-date. Thank you for that. My speech is quite general because, of course, at this stage I cannot explain in more detail what has happened in our group so far. The main task of Yle is to present and support high-quality domestic production. Indeed, the Finnish Broadcasting Act states aptly: "It is the responsibility of the public broadcaster to make versatile and comprehensive television and radio software available on equal terms to everyone with its related ancillary services." Yle’s tasks are also to produce programmes for special groups and a high-quality children’s programme. In the future, Yle must not forget the elderly either. Here it was thought recently that ordinary television would disappear, but it has now been found that television will stand up, and it must be noted that especially pensioners, the older population, watch TV the most. They also need to be remembered in the software. Broadcasting means a lot to Finnish culture and Finns. Without the YLE and its production, Finnish drama, documentary film and television series production would be considerably weaker. Indie procurement is also important. They allow many small production companies to continue producing quality domestic drama and hopefully to increase it in the future. Furthermore, quality international supply must not be completely forgotten. Major sporting events such as the Olympic Games and the World Cup are important international events. It is essential that all citizens receive these services without a separate payment obligation. These sporting and cultural landmarks Yle has done an excellent job. Yle’s independent, knowledgeable and high-quality news offering is very important for Yle’s operations — perhaps the most important one. One of the most precious parts of Yle is its archive and Live Archive service, which contains unique audiovisual material. In fact, the archives reveal the importance of Yleisradio’s role as a Finnish civilist in history. The role and funding of the public radio is currently under assessment by the parliamentary working group. Competition and cooperation between commercial media and broadcasters are a global topic of discussion. Good models can therefore be applied for in countries where the same debate is taking place on the relationship between subsidised public supply and market-based private supply. More and more media are being transferred to the network, where cooperation between public and private news providers can bring mutual benefits. This cooperation should be developed by our co-legislators. Both sides need each other. Of course, there is a controversy about the fact that Yle has had a fair amount of funding and that it is stable and secure. Commercials are forced to collect their money through advertising, and this is causing more and more problems. The public feedback and public debate on YLE often highlight the independence of YLE, especially in the news and current programmes. It is essential that YLE retains among Finns the image of a fair and political independent actor. 72 per cent of Finns follow Yle’s TV and radio channels every day. It is therefore essential that citizens receive a high-quality programme. Yle is managed and managed by two bodies: the Finnish Broadcasting Board and the Board of Directors. It might also make sense to set up a body of experts, which would result in independence, under the authority of the Management Board. This would allow for systematic monitoring of independence. The establishment of such an institution could be a place for reflection. However, the Governing Board will have and should play the most important role. It is important that YLE is also in direct contact with citizens. One important part of communication is that Finns can participate directly in Yle's activities. For example, I still think phone yarns sing is a great format. You're right. It's been singing for 44 years. When it comes to domestic music, Yle is very important for Finnish music to be performed in the future. I would give small towels when there are local radios in Yle, for example, that local music professionals or enthusiasts in the area who have very good production rarely get their production on local radios today. That deficiency should be addressed. Of course, this is also a problem in commercial terms, that there are these playlists, which mean that very much the same type or same songs are playing. It has been explained that citizens want to hear them — of course they do if they never hear anything else. It is also important to ensure genuine local supply of regional supplies. At the same time, however, the vitality of regional newspapers must be ensured. Local newspapers are very specific on local issues, and it is important for democracy that they also survive — including in paper versions — in this digital revolution. All in all, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u145	Mr President! As a member of Yle's Board of Directors, I myself have a few comments on this debate today. Perhaps the first point is that when you look at this report from the Board of Directors, it can be said that Yle is very much in line with the statutory task which has been assigned to it and that it is carrying it out with very good and very good results. In this respect, I can also thank Mr Kivelä, Chairman of the Board of Directors, for the previous speeches that have been made here, and Mrs Alatalo also had a very good speech. The second point then relates to this debate, which is always the subject of this debate. Yle is certainly a source of opinion in each of us in one direction or another, and this debate, too, is actually quite a reflection of the public's feedback, where one thinks that something is always too liberally reported and the other thinks that something else is too conservative, and everything in between. On this point, I personally conclude that Yle has made quite good use of the pluralistic communication when the feedback comes from the side, so that we can get to the point where Yle works exactly as we have wanted as legislators. Then I do not see much sense in the fact that, for individual programmes, there is a debate in this Chamber or in other programme councils or such. It is within journalistic freedom, and Yle is responsible for the content it produces itself. After all, the Management Board is only responsible for ensuring that this statutory function is carried out. When you look at the future of Yle, there are many questions involved. Domestic reflection is quite the same as the global debate on public service, its future, media breakthroughs and how Yle also responds to this challenge. With us, the use of media content changes. How do we manage in the ever-changing world, and then how do we respond with domestic production and, on the other hand, domestic operators to the competition that global operators bring to Finland? But there is one thing I do not quite understand in this debate about the future of Yle, and it is perhaps a deliberate confrontation between commercial media and Yle, which always comes up. After all, the logic goes some way that commercial media cannot survive because we have such a high-quality public service. If we think of it this way, then we have to ask whether it is really the case that our media market is stable and it works only in such a way that, if the public succeeds, the commercial industry loses and, on the other hand, the public loses. I personally do not believe that it is this simple, and if you look at more of the commercial media — such as the regional newspapers that have been raised here, and the news usage that citizens are using, especially on the web today — then you have to remember that the two biggest tabloids already have more than 50% of online news usage, I think 55% is quite accurate. If we are talking about how, for example, some provincial newspaper and its online journalism and online news are interesting, then the answer is not what kind of content Yle puts on the web, but rather what these two big commercial afternoon newspapers are doing. If they continue to retain completely free content, it will be difficult to imagine — even if we take such measures — that the websites of the provincial newspapers would be used with their news offering for completely new spheres and more of them would be used. I believe that in this debate we must be honest when we consider what is behind the plight of the commercial media on the one hand and, on the other hand, why, for example, in the news, the citizen is looking at a specific place. In this context, it is good to remember that when you look at these reliability indicators too — in terms of different service providers and different news offerings, in terms of what the citizen considers to be reliable — the most reliable news provider is always Yle. I think it is pretty great that we have a public service in Finland that also enjoys a great deal of trust from year to year in the eyes of our citizens. Moreover, when we look at Yle and its effectiveness and compare it with other Nordic colleagues in Yle, it must also be said that the money we spend here in comparison with the other Nordic countries gives us a better result per person. Finally, on this question of the real plight of commercial media and whether the news is not being read on commercial media because of Yle. Looking at these latest studies, which have been done, the main reason really is why, for example, paid newspapers are not used on the Internet, surprisingly, even those free newspapers can be found on the Internet. That free-of-charge news offering is available on the Internet, which seems to me to be a pretty clear reason why, for example, someone does not switch to paid services if, for example, the same content is fully available free of charge in a competing tabloid. And then when asked what the meaning of the news produced by Yle is, it is very small when compared with all these other reasons. In that sense, I would perhaps like to see this debate, too, about whether it is always the case that behind the plight of the commercial media, Mrs Yle, there are a few different points of view. I say this without beinglittled by the fact that our commercial media certainly have different challenges that they have faced, different problems, and they need to be resolved. I hope that there will now also be answers to these in the parliamentary working group which Mrs Elomaa spoke about in her speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u146	Mr President! This issue is quite complex and perhaps difficult to grasp. At least quite often in this debate we talk about some detail without realizing its multi-stage impact. For example, in a limited liability company, which Yle is, the law requires the government to promote the company’s interests. The same shall apply where applicable to the Management Board. If, then, the Public Word Council mentioned here is still included as a control body, its 12 members will be composed of 9 publishers. For 40 years, when I followed those decisions, I rarely felt that even in cases where the sentence had to come of course. It is not a neutral body, it is done for the court to deal less with the matter. The public service advertising part is now reminiscent. I wonder how many years, about 40 years, Yle sent a lottery draw for payment. It was only after a survey was conducted that this advertising-funded part of Yle’s programme was removed and it was transferred to the Ad TV. There is a complex problem at the moment, or a variety of reasons, with the press, perhaps a regional and national press. Google, mentioned here, does not affect the press very much, but it can affect how magazines or television succeed. Google is a good example of how new technology has made global media very attractive to those who want to target advertising at an individual level. In Finland, the YLE website, which is the fastest news media of all, has gradually contributed to the fact that newspaper circulation has fallen by between 3 and 5 per cent per year, first in the capital region, and gradually the phenomenon has moved north through Central Finland. As a result, the ability of the press to serve commercial interests, i.e. advertisers, has also been weakened and its economy has been put at risk. My guess is that, if nothing is done, in the first phase, the provincial newspapers, which are, however, guardians of the province, will reduce their appearances from 7 to 5. But small regional newspapers are doing well because Yle is unable to provide an alternative service there. Yes, the fact that Yle gives a free website has an indirect effect on the fact that the press cannot put a price on its own website. It also has the effect that the press cannot very easily use Yle’s news in its own production, because the recipient would say that he has already received this free of charge. I'd feel kind of weird if we were still trying to get the price. I don't think that's possible. The importance of Yle in the entire media field of 500 million is so significant that it affects how it is invested. And when Yle does not have a claim for profit, she is able to make some programs that seem absolutely impossible for other media — for example, that Yle makes Mannerheim African-looking in South Africa and thinks it a good thing. If I, as a publisher, had done the same thing, I think the staff would have asked for an audience and said, "Eero, could you go a little further on vacation?" Or if on a Friday or Saturday night you watch people watching TV2 how to watch TV, I do not think it is a public service level program,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u147	Mr President! Eero magazine took that for example to watch when people watch TV, so I don’t know which one it says more about, the producers or us viewers. I'm sure it's cheap, but I don't know about the entertainment value. There has been a debate here today on the role of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors and whether it is really up to us to address that content of the programme, and certainly not the exact content of the individual programmes, but in any case it is good to have a debate on that long line. I was still watching that Yle law right there. I've done it myself. Just because I'm a lawyer doesn't mean I remember the regulations by heart without seeing them again. Indeed, the Governing Board must ensure that Yle fulfils these public tasks which it has been entrusted with and that this diversity and equity have been established in its public functions. Of course it is this way that everyone can experience it differently. However, let me give you a few of those subjective examples here. Mr Modig also spoke today of his own journalistic background and of his subjective experience. I have no empirical knowledge of this, this is highly subjective, yet based on truth. I was on my way from the committee room in February, and there were a lot of reporters, i.e. from different media. They probably didn't notice me. They waited for people from another committee and discussed President Sauli Niinistö's speech on New Year's and that Sauli Niinistö said that in the country like a country and that not everyone might come to Finland with good intentions. They were very funny, and they said that the basic Finnish racists must be terribly happy now, and they laughed at it. They probably didn't notice me, and when I'm a new congressman, this kind of quiet person, they probably didn't recognize me. Then I asked them whether you think I am racist or whether you think I am racist. Then there was such silence. I'm sure they've woken up, for God's sakes, there's someone else here. I don't know what they were thinking, but anyway, the silence came. Then came a woman who said something that 'not when we meant the others' and something very vague, I didn't really know about it. Well, then, as I did, I marched to that nail block and took my coat and then said, "It's worth thinking about what you're talking about, 'cause there's ears on the walls. Yes, I felt that I have never heard any reporter here laugh at people in other parties so demeaningly that it did seem to me that way. This is my job, and at least I'm not a racist. But maybe they really didn't mean me, that they were the'some other'. I've got an eye for myself right here. After all, there has been a huge debate on immigration and legislation, and citizens have been very interested in what measures are being taken, a lot of different rumours are going on the Internet. After all, Parliament has now adopted a law abolishing this criterion of humanitarian protection, i.e. bringing the legislation to the same level as in the rest of the EU. I am a member of the Constitutional Committee, and we dealt with it for a very long time in the Constitutional Committee and we considered various issues, and there was a lot of public debate about what this means. Then, on the day that it was adopted in Parliament, I, too, stood before the evening news at 8:30, that when much has been discussed about this, it will probably now be stated today that this is how the law has changed. Nothing. There were all the other news of that day, and then more than one minute really had been used to study the fact that American TV actors, female actors, get fewer speeches in movies than men. It may be that it is not intentional, but it did seem a little like it, and of course it may be that I, as a Member of Parliament, consider these matters more important than the news, but I do not know whether it was now so necessary for us to know the number of speeches. But this is also important because of the fact that the public is counting on Yle and their news. Actually, I do too. I don't think it's some MV magazine that I have to check out everywhere. Here, as I recall, Mr Juvonen said — I put myself up here, I do not have the explanation here — that 77% of the people trust Yle a lot or quite a lot. Then it really matters a great deal what and in what respect comes from it to all of us, because the people trust it and regard it as right and impartial. That is why it is good that we had this debate today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u148	Madam President! I'm in the Yle-team, and those financial issues and these are on the table. But I will take a stand on this role of Yle. Now that there is structural change in the whole sector and thousands of jobs have left it, how can it be that if there is change in the whole sector? Yle remains at the same level that it cannot be checked? I am sure that in the future, when the group meets, the matter will be dealt with. And then about the news. Why do we have MV magazine? It is very much because Yle produces a complete liberal journalism that has no basis. Citizens want clear information on what is happening in the world, including multiculturalism. MV magazine takes the names of rapists, murderers from that district court — they are available to all of us. If you have the name of a native Finn, you come out — I don't mean Yle, but in other media — but if you have such a representative of multiculturalism, then you won't. It's someone else. So that's why we have MV magazine. And as far as that neutrality is concerned, in time Yle produced an impartial program from the Soviet Union, a highly favored program. The same applies to multiculturalism at the moment. Yle has taken a clear role in this matter: no matter what kind of mass murderer comes from there, so almost the children's home will be directed and it will be turned into a program that such a peace lover from there came. - Time's up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u149	Madam President! I will pay attention to the costs of the universal radio. Yle buys programmes from independent production companies operating in Finland, and I think that these purchases should be increased considerably. Now these production companies account for just over 20% of the first performances. When you look at the costs, Yle spends over 27 million on this, while the total amount of the contents was EUR 330 million. Although the number of first presentations by independent production companies was nearly 21 percent, the amount spent is only about 8 percent. Of course, there is no direct comparison of these, but it seems that someone else is doing the production at a lower cost than the Finnish Broadcasting Company. Develop content and buy more domestic production. That's the direction Yle has to aim at. Yle's activity is being monitored. Almost every meeting of the Board of Directors examines statistics on the number of channels that have been listened to and monitored. As I understand it, Yle's main task is to provide the services that commercial media should not produce. The fact that statistics are being monitored and the fact that we are number one in all sectors is, in my view, the wrong way of measuring whether we have succeeded in the most important task. I understand that this is also important for Yle's development, but I believe that Yle's development should take place on the basis of statistics other than whether the statistics are number one or number seven.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u150	Mr President! There has been a good debate here today about Yle's activities and the future, and that is a good thing. But I would like to make those views on Yle more specific, because I do not want anyone to have the impression here that I think Yle is somehow unnecessary, because this is not the case, of course. Of course, Yle has its own role and place in Finnish society — it has it now, and it must certainly have it in the future too. But there is room for criticism when there is cause for it. I will return a little bit to this previous debate on multiculturalism, because it raised a lot of different views and clearly raised different feelings and views in people. Of course, we in Yle's Board of Directors are not going to define Yle's programme content, but it is up to the Management Board to draw the big lines, and this great line is also represented by this multicultural agenda, which affects all Yle's activities and information. A key aspect of this multicultural agenda is that this agenda is largely based on this Yle legislation, which requires Yle to promote multiculturalism. But of course that line also stems from the choices made by the journalist who was previously raised here by Mrs Saarakkala. However, I personally believe that this legislation on the operation of the Finnish Broadcasting Company must remove this promotion of multiculturalism, since it is not the role of Yle to try to shape the opinion of the public and to promote a certain political agenda. Yle should not promote communism, Yle should not promote capitalism, nor globalisation, nor multiculturalism, nor any other ideology. Yle should be an equal representation of the views of the whole population, and support for multiculturalism is not a task of politically neutral media. It is precisely mass immigration and multi-cultural social experimentation that is the task of multi-culturalism, and at least I am opposed to such a political and ideological agenda. Yle's driving right now. Today’s people are mind-thinking individuals who do not need ideological coercion to form their world view from the direction of the state or some of its machinery. The public must strive to adapt to a new environment in which information is freely available on the Internet. There is simply no room for attitudeal and biased communication among Finns. To this end, I would like to stress once again that we need independent, impartial and neutral communication in Finland, but not ideological coercion or communication only from a specific political ideological point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u151	Mr President! When we talk about this change of opinion, it reminds me of what Mr Meri has said that there was no news about the abolition of humanitarian protection. Then, on the other hand, a huge intimidation campaign was launched at Yle when it was designed to be tightened up to the same level as in the Nordic countries in general — a huge intimidation campaign. However, this liberal attitude that has been discussed does not only relate to immigration, but, for example, the news on EU issues is very positive for the EU, and according to the study I mentioned earlier, 79% of journalists are in favour of a gender-neutral marriage, which is reflected in the attitudes of news coverage — a study which, incidentally, Yle and the Helsingin Sanomat refused to answer, by the way. But another issue that I touched on during the debate in November was the change introduced in the name of regional supply. At the time, it seemed strange to water down the provincial identity, when deliveries bearing the name before the province’s name were named after only one central city. Mr President! Apparently, this experiment in the Helsinki bubble feels good too. It is not the right line to compromise on a provincial level or any other. We need to save more on central functions than on regional radios.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u152	Mr President! Here, representatives of the Finns of Peru have criticised different kinds of YLE programmes and discussions between journalists. Over the years — I was elected to Parliament for the first time in 91 C.E. — I have had very many similar feelings. I have experienced many times that something that I have been making up my mind is very important, and I have been disappointed that it has received very little attention in the news, if at all, and then I think someone much less important has gained a bigger status in the news. I have often thought that the attitudes that have been reported have been my own party, let me say, snoopingly. However, it has never occurred to me to drive the YLE itself into some sort of strangulation. I think it is very important that there are channels of communication which are common to the entire nation. Indeed, I am wary of the future which Mr Alatalo was talking about, that, as in the United States, there are two different TV channels, one followed by conservatives, the other by liberals, and the news stream that people are following is completely divided. Broadcasting also plays a very central role in the sense of national culture and the existence of a common people and in the development of culture. As Mikko Alatalo and others have said here, it is quite wrong to blame the difficulties of commercial media for the Finnish Broadcasting Company. It is because the Internet has a completely different role to play today. It's Google. It's Facebook. It's Twitter. It is not possible to improve the situation in commercial media by making the public radio miserable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u153	Madam President! Now that we are dealing with the subject of Yle and we Members of Parliament have the right to speak but not the right to decide on these Yle programmes, I believe that it is precisely underscored that we have the right and the duty here also to deal with this programme offering, its content and this journalisticism in relation to Yle. Fortunately, this has been done here today and different opinions have rightly been expressed. Of course, the fact that we now have a Yle-tax instead of a former licence fee may have changed this situation a little, but this has been desired, and it cannot be that, once this tax has come, then our right to speak would cease. And I myself, at least, am defending Yle's important role, this size class, about the present kind of thing. I see it's good, and I trust Yle's news. Of course, these less sensible choices take place there, as Leena Meri has pointed out in her own speech, that there are some lines of actors that are being presented when there are such things as immigration news. These are important points that have been made here. But when we really go to these Yle talk shows, they are quite liberal. The people present in them, who represent liberal opinion, and they also make this quite clear in them. And then we really have one example of this Rakel Flame, which has become more known for adult entertainment, and he then keeps these own programs of his own, in which he interviews with these generally quite similar - minded people. He usually does the right thing on that show to get this opinion out of the interviewer by nodding all the way to that interviewer when the interviewer doesn't have the courage to be as liberal as Rakel Flame would like him to be. Examples like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u154	Mr President! There has been a wide-ranging debate on the role and necessity of Yle, and that is very good, because it is Parliament that can, if necessary, modify or refine the tasks defined by Yle's legislation, and these definitions of the law will inevitably also be reflected in the content of the programmes of YLE. In the legislation, support for multiculturalism as defined by Yleisradio and, of course, the strong emphasis on the positive aspects of multiculturalism and, on the other hand, the understatement of potential problems may be somewhat comparable to the over-politicised Reporadio of the 60s and 70s and the later upper left of Yleisradio. This period of politicisation reached an unfortunate climax at the time of the gullification, when many of Yle’s journalists unmistakably incensed the achievements of the Eastern bloc, and this is what Mr Hakkarainen has just referred to. The well-known programs included the Quarter of Neighborhood and other similar benefits that excite the bliss of the then Eastern neighbor. These programs can now be viewed from Yle’s archives with nostalgic sympathy. Times change, and even the present climate of opinion is not yet the final truth. The 1970s were a time when a larger party was out of the way for so-called general reasons. The atmosphere of that time was also inevitably reflected in the programme offering and content at the time. With the collapse of the Eastern bloc, the idealization of socialism seems to have turned into a glow of multiculturalism, although it must be said that YLE is not the only media that promotes multiculturalism today. Among other things, the politicisation of supplier training is likely to play a role in this. And it is clear that the way in which the national media is shaped over the years is also bound to be seen as a change in people's world view. At least I find it extremely regrettable, but apparently not all Members of Parliament feel the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u155	Madam President! Representative Savio almost took the words out of his mouth, so sharp the text came out. But what Mr Hassi said about the role of Yle, we all defend Yle. But we want Yle to produce the programme that the citizens want, not the opinion that is being proclaimed there now. It's Yle's role. Let me give you an example: When the autumn had that immigration crisis at its peak, Yle always came on the show that women and children came. In every show, it came out there. This role does not belong to Yle, but produces fair programmes for the majority of the population. In time, Yle was established when no one else had the resources to produce programmes in Finland, not commercially or otherwise. Yle was really good at that situation, and he is also good at this situation. But it must also take account of this majority. Among other things, there are a very large number of Finns in this hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u158	Madam President! This promotion of multiculturalism must certainly be removed from Yle-la. I will read a few points in this report of the Board of Directors, paragraph 3.4. Services for special groups and other minorities: "The Governing Board has highlighted, among other things, the role of Yle as an independent reflector of pluralism, which aims to strengthen a diverse image of the changing world and society." Let us continue with a few lines: "The overriding aim is for representatives of minority and special groups to be more present in Yle's content as participants, experts and authors, while highlighting the themes and perspectives of multiculturalism." Next point: "In children's programmes, multiculturalism is defined as a specific aspect of the programme's work." - Oh, no. — "The Summeri programme, which is popular with young people, includes people from immigrant backgrounds as performers and hosts." "The popularAli&Husu,Ciostic FridayTV2 shows the BlackBarbarin andPrinceJusuf’s seriesMama-Finland mamu examples of programs that have reached a I have to ask, is this really what the YLE is supposed to do? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u159	Mr President! Indeed, in this debate too, it is a good thing that we start with the statutory role of the YLE. If I myself think of it as a member of the Board of Directors, then what, in the length of time when Yle's activities are related to accessibility, is what Yle's task: do we reach as many Finns as possible with different content? That's Yle's idea. So we have a variety of content for every one of us. When you look at the studies that you do, that this has been done, the majority of Finns say that yes, in Yle's contents someone or some things are very interesting. Everyone's gonna find something. Then, when asked if it is trusted in content production, whether it is trusted in news production, then very strong confidence continues. In that sense, I would like to emphasise that, in relation to the statutory task, YLE has done its job. Well, then the question is whether something can still be improved. I'm sure they can. With regard to the debate that has taken place here, perhaps I would say a little like Mr Hassi before, that we all probably have a subjective view of how to report on a matter. But then again, when we go to the next mate, it may not be in line with the next mate’s subjective view as to how the matter should have been reported. For example, the fact that enough was now being reported on this removal of the humanitarian definition of a foreigner was taken here. Someone felt that too little, someone felt that probably too much, or another example. There are many and many of these, from which we all look subjectively at the matter and interpret it differently. Someone here will probably think that this debate should also be reported, someone will think that more, someone will think less. In this regard, one would like to see more confidence in the assessments that citizens have shown, for example in the light of various studies, about Yle, which show that those indicators,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u160	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Ronkainen mentioned the point in point 3.4 of this report, which indeed states: 'In children's programmes, multiculturalism is defined as a specific aspect of the programme's work. I find this really incomprehensible. I myself have taken the role of raising children that I am not going to impose on my own child any political ideology or any ideological agenda. And I do not want the Finnish Broadcasting System to go out and stuff my child with any ideology. He then makes his own choice of which direction to turn, but — no, not like this, the YLE, no.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u161	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u162	Mr President! So much of Yle's funding has to be mentioned here, too, that there is a disproportionate share of the funding of bilingual or, in Finnish, Swedish-speaking software in relation to the share of the Swedish-speaking population in the population and the contributors to Yle-Tax. So that's another flaw that should be corrected. This discussion about the relationship between commercial media and Yle is sometimes a little purpose-oriented. Everyone understands that commercial media have a completely different size of resources than Yle. While Advertising TV may have hundreds of employees employed on commercially viable principles, thousands of employees will be paid with tax money. There must then be quite different expectations as to the functioning and content of these media, if this is the case. You don't want to confuse a conversation about commercial media and Yle with any Google. It is another big problem that international media giants are threatening to buy out Finnish commercial media. This is a major concern which we really should pay attention to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u163	Mr President! There is no way that the Finns of Peru are driving Yle down. We understand the importance of Yle. But it is a fact that now that we are online, commercial media are facing enormous difficulties. It does not serve Yle at all if the commercial media slowly weakens. It is also a good thing for Yle that the commercial media remain alongside it, and that is why the parliamentary group is now also trying to see what cooperation can be made. That is what I want to say to Mr Hassi. And as far as culture is concerned, of course the essence of Yle's mission on the cultural side is to preserve our national culture and guarantee the preservation of domestic production. It's all about the core.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u164	Mr President! I agree with Mrs Elomaa that strangling Yle does not promote commercial media, nor does it do the opposite. Of course, what happens to the YLE is more directly in the hands of the Parliament, but I do think that at some point we should start thinking about the things that politics can do, so that the commercial media that sustains the journalistic level in Finland will also remain, because it really is not an obvious fact in the current online world. For two comments, I actually asked for the floor. First of all, when many representatives here have spoken about multiculturalism as some kind of ideology: Well, of course, there are a lot of words that each of us understand in a little different way. I personally understand that multiculturalism means, above all, recognising that every human being has the same dignity, that his skin color, religion, native country or other background is whatever — basically the same thing as has been said in the Finnish Constitution. Well, when it is stated here that the Finnish Broadcasting Company was somehow biased about asylum seekers and highlighted women and children, here I found the news from Economics magazine in January, where it quotes the Financial Times, which states that although three quarters of asylum seekers arriving in Europe last June were men, according to the new UN statistics there are fewer than half men, that is, adult men, the majority are women and children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u167	Madam President! These are the news that has been presented by Hassi, but we all see with clay eyes what is happening. When you go out on the street, there are very few of those women and children there, the street picture will be filled with those bearded children. And then, if that age can be said this way, that I am 15 years old — it is a child, even if it is bald, it does not matter, and according to the news they are sorted as children. You know, you have to take a pretty clear common sense in these things. Then another thing like this is that here Ronkainen mentioned the status of Swedish. It's amazing that when I go to Kainuu in the wilderness — I went to Kajaani the other Saturday — the only station is Radio Vega, which is there, and what could be YleX3 or something like this: Swedish. Who needs it? Who needs it? Who needs it? And the same on Viitasaari. All these stations can be found there, and Yle produces these programs. There is no need for Swedish, no one, but still produced as empty, while at the same time those programs can be sent to the swamp, no one needs them, but it is producing something that pays and someone does it. In other words, you have to be able to intervene and also say that this is the case. And about multiculturalism: It goes on and on about what the programme is being produced, in the same way as it did in the Soviet era, during the period of inoculation, against the native population. When you grind your time into that same thing, people will come to terms with it. In that perfectly produced journalism, the substance is one of that,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u168	Did Eerola have a reply? — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Mostly to Mr Hassi, not so much to Mr Hakkarainen, who spoke wisely: So, of course, every human being has human dignity, we are not scrapping it or taking it away any more than Yleinen is criticising multiculturalism. For me, Somalis, Arabs, and others, they can have their own culture as long as they do it with their own money. Multiculturalism means that in practice people from other countries are not even allowed to become Finns, but the money from the majority of the population — the money from the majority of the population — is used to maintain it in their own culture. I don't want to maintain some Somali or Arab culture with my own tax money. It is multiculturalism, and that is what I am opposed to. And I'm sure the Economics or the Financial Times are much smarter to report these things than Yle, but the fact is that last year, when these asylum seekers came to Finland, 80 per cent of them were practically men, and even those who had been declared children had a better beard than I did.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u170	Madam President! One speaker raised these statistics about Yle trying to be number one, in a way to compete for these viewers and listeners on all its programs. The kind of overkill I think is that Yle advertises pretty early in the evening such programs that are aimed at even now over 12-year-olds or something like that. This kind of content comes quite early from Yle, precisely this program advertising, which is then not suitable for smaller children. In my opinion, this is going way too far when it comes to competing for these viewers, so that this type of programme advertising could be omitted or must be placed, for example, after 9:00 p.m., that these dramas and others in the world do not jump out of it at 7:00 p.m., because it is still time, however, when many young children are near the television. As far as this Swedish is concerned, Yle really invests disproportionately in it. One of the features that has come to Yle some time ago that news in Yle's Swedish, for example, is placed in connection with the morning TV, I find it a little disturbing myself. With this Yle Fem channel, why can't the Swedish content be transmitted instead of disrupting the morning of the Finnish-speaking people by giving us, as it were, Swedish-speaking material, probably because we would now be excited or young people would get excited about this Swedish language? In my opinion, it is the wrong way to promote the learning and learning of Swedish, which are, in itself, important and quite acceptable ideas on a voluntary basis, but there must also be a limit in this propaganda.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u171	Mr Eerola also had a request to speak. - Do you want to use it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u172	Tack, fru talman! Yeah, that's actually what I emptied my workshop in that reply pretty much. When I thought I was not getting that reply, I asked for the floor. I am not going to repeat what I said here, but I will say so much that this multiculturalism has, as it were, replaced socialism in the minds of some people. When you can no longer fan of communism and socialism, then you have been replaced by this sort of thing. And the only thing common to both of these ideologies, that is, socialism and communism and to this multiculturalism is the fight against the nation state and nationalism. And as far as I am concerned, Yle's mission is to support national culture, Finnish national culture, things that are important to us — showing and so on — and then local culture. There was already reference to these Yle regional radios. Well, we did well for once to replace Yle Kotka Yle Kymenlaakso, but locality and national culture are one of the most important things that Yle needs to bring out even more in the future rather than this multiculturalism. And so that it does not go just to bark at Yle, I will mention that the radio program that comes on Saturdays, the musical gift of former youths, listen to all of you. It's my favorite. There's gonna be some good pop.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u173	Madam President! Mr Hassi said in his earlier speech that Yle did not promote the idea of multiculturalism. Personally, I do not agree: it certainly contributes to this. Yle's legislation states that Yle's task is to promote multiculturalism, and it is precisely the multicultural ideology that aims to promote multiculturalism. In summary, Yle is implementing a multicultural concept when it seeks to promote multiculturalism. I would like to replace this multicultural ideology with fairness, neutrality, objective news and communication. I think that's a better way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u174	Mr President! A brief comment to Eerola on that matter of local radio names: So I myself come from Lappeenranta, and it is now Yle Lappeenranta, but it seems a bit absurd when Yle Lappeenranta tweets about the Parikkala council. When Yle South Karelia tweeted about Parikkala's council, it seemed natural, but why does Yle Lappeenranta tweet about Parikkala's council? This is one of the things that makes me wonder about this change of name. I would add to Yle’s activities that some expensive foreign series have been purchased, which also compete with commercial media. This is the kind of thing I don't look good at. It's exactly the unhealthy competition with commercial media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u175	Mr President! I would only correct when Mr Immonen refers to what I said in a rather strange way. This is one example of how words are understood differently or different people understand different things with different words. When I was talking about multiculturalism, I wasn't talking about what Yle does, but about what that word means. There are obviously many representatives here who believe that multiculturalism is an ideology. I understand that multiculturalism in practice means about the same thing as that in the Finnish Constitution, which says that all people are equal regardless of their origin, religion, skin color, gender and so forth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u176	Madam President! After all, we have introduced this positive special treatment into the legislation, and it has still been amended during the last parliamentary term by a majority in Parliament so that, if a person belongs to an ethnic minority, he is a member of a sexual minority or a member of a minority in religion, he is entitled to positive special treatment today, even if he or this group of people has not been discriminated against. If this is multiculturalism, then it is a matter of which there can then be many opinions that it is all right to do so. I understand, in a way, the good intentions in it, but I feel that it has at least had an impact on Yle, that this new article has been interpreted in a very multicultural way, in such a way that this agenda is highlighted, for example, in these debates. I personally see that, above all, this liberal line is being highlighted there, which is on the table. As has been said, there are very few debaters with conservative views, and knowing that this liberalism-conservatism divide is today more important in politics than the right-wing-left, it is strange that only the Finns of Peru are here to criticise this. It is a great illustration of this situation that no one here really criticizes Yle except the Finns of Finland. We happen to be just representing a rather large group of people in this country, and I am quite sure that the majority of the voters in Peru agree with what we have presented here today. That this is a very illustrative situation, that others seem to accept the current line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u177	Madam President! Let us end by complimenting Yle: for example, sports programs and Yle Theme, what Eerola said there, are such programs that we need them and want them and we do not want to do so. But the people who pay for this Yle will become the so-called grey mass — at the mouth of one researcher: it is only the gray mass — and will have to pay and finance this multiculturalism, which is an ideology, whatever you say. It is very clear and heard, and it always feels very crude to watch those news. I like to look at them, but when this point comes up, let me switch the channel to the commercial side. But thank you for all the things Yle does: these sports shows and Teema and what else is there. They belong to it and they're good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u178	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 5/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u179	Madam President! Indeed, the government's proposal on state aid and lobbying circles is now under discussion and has now been before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. It's very close to me. For more than ten years I myself have been a lawyer for guardianship services at the Local Register Office, i.e. I have been the guardian of public interest representatives and the guardian of private interest representatives and have granted various guardianships to lobbyists and have also been there to develop this kind of activity and supervisory role, and I am very pleased that progress is being made in these matters. First of all, this law is about the possibility for legal aid agencies and lobby offices to purchase services as purchasing services in the future: it is about this regulation and how it should be done. Even today, lobbying agencies have been able to purchase services as purchasing services, but this has not been possible on the Legal Aid Office side. In the past the situation was that the lobbying services were under the responsibility of the Local Register Office and they were purchased by the Local Register Offices from the municipalities. Later, in 2009, they became the responsibility of the Legal Aid Office, and it also became a problem, because the public interest and the legal aid office were in the same office and the staff of the same office, where there were very many accessibility situations, for example. I'll come back to that later. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we drew attention to this, of course we wanted to reflect on the fact that, when public tasks are delegated to private parties as a purchasing service, is there an act of public authority which is so significant that it could not do so, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its report that this is not the case. However, in considering the role and the content of its mission and its power, we concluded in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it was necessary to impose criminal liability on those who, as purchasing services, carry out these tasks of legal assistance and lobbying. I myself would also like to see a change to the Act on Custodial Measures presented by the Local Register Offices in 2007 or 2009 — now I do not remember the year when the Act on Custodial Acts was amended in large parts. The problem there is that now that there is a duty as a service, there is criminal liability and there is always a payer, and if there is a purchase service, then there will now be civil liability, and then ultimately this buyer of the purchase service will be liable for damages. There are now many private guardians, family overseers, and most of them perform their duties very well and very well, but there are then fewer of them, and they can cause a very huge financial loss to the lobby. In this proposal, the Local Register Offices suggested that the private guardian should take out liability insurance in case of damage, but unfortunately this did not happen. Today, the procedure is that if a private trustee harms his client, he will be replaced. Of course, he will, in principle, have to pay this compensation in a court decision, but it is very often the case if there is no money there. There is still a legal security gap in the sense that the services provided by private lobbyists are not always adequate and are not sufficiently secured by the principal's assets. After all, there is no liability of any kind, neither the courts nor the local register office, for the fact that such a guardian has been proposed. Of course, the suitability of the guardian should be checked with sufficient care, but in any case. Now, as I said earlier, these state legal aid and lobbying circles were first combined, and this leading public legal adviser from the Legal Aid Office also became the head of the lobby in the same office. This led to the fact that in the regions of the same district, which have also grown in recent years due to various combinations of organisations, this happened because public legal advisers are subject to the Code of Conduct of the Bar Association, that they are not allowed to accept orders if a person working in the same office who has acted as a guardian of the interests of that person or of his family, and vice versa. Now, this reform is precisely designed to separate them into separate units, and the leading public defender is no longer the head of public interest, that is to say, lacks control. In practice, this has been a huge problem in finding unhindered lobbyists for the heads of government, for these lobbyists, and for them lawyers for certain processes. Sometimes they have had to be picked up almost on the other side of Finland, and that has been a very difficult situation. Here, too, the bill has made some reliefs which have been very challenging from the point of view of the Local Register Office: "Determination of a general guardian", Article 16, Article 1 and Article 3 of the bill. There, first of all, in the past, if a person of interest had to be transferred within the same lobby to a lobbyist in another district, we had to recycle this decision-making process through the Court of Justice, i.e. re-examine the whole supervision. This law now removes this problem, which was completely unnecessary work and caused problems, especially for people who often move from one place to another. Since, of course, even though he is in the lobby, he can change and because the guardian was not under an obligation to consider a client to be a lobbyist outside that lobbying circle, this was always to be changed. In addition, there is a very good change coming to Article 3 that an outside trustee can also be assigned to the task, if that is precisely the case for this lobbyist, and often it is. Many times it is the case that a person has, for example: While living in Tuusula, the public guardian of its district decides to move to Tampere and is a separate lobby district, and in principle then a guardian of its territory should be appointed from Tampere. It is not necessary to leave this arrangement in accordance with this Article 16, or, for example, because of the location of the property, a guardian may be appointed from somewhere other than where the principal lives. Very good changes, and I am very pleased. According to my information, the Ministry of Justice is considering some amendments to the guardianship act. But this is a good start and makes very much easier the duties of the Local Register Office, which there are so many at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u180	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 8/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u181	Mr President! As chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, just a few words about this bill. This is the background to the EU directive on maritime spatial planning, which is being implemented by this law. After all, at the moment we have the regional plans for coastal areas which contain the territorial waters of Finland, and this law extends maritime spatial planning to the economic zone. These formulas will not have legal effect but will be indicative. But the background is the same as in land use planning: the sea also faces various operating pressures, such as shipping, tourism, environmental values, fishing, etc. And just like land use planning, these different needs and goals are then tried to reconcile. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy proposes to amend the Government's proposal on one small point: the purpose of maritime spatial planning, on which the Government's proposal states that "the purpose of planning is to promote the sustainable development and growth of the various uses of the sea area and the sustainable use of marine resources", the Committee on the Environment proposes to add "the achievement of a good state of the marine environment". This is also based on the EU directive on which this whole government proposal is based.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u182	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u183	Madam President! This is my first legislative initiative, which is increasingly topical. In Western countries, animal protection has been a key principle. There is a strong desire to tackle the issue of mistreatment but, on the other hand, there are some things that are being ignored. Among other things, this is the religious method of slaughter that has to be dealt with in my bill. That should not be allowed in our society. Although animals are part of our food, it does not justify mistreatment of the animal, and this must also be taken into account at the slaughter stage. Even then, animals should not be tortured. In that sense, it is very unusual that our legislation allows religious slaughter by stunning the animal at the same time as the fall of blood. I draw attention to this because we really do not have any assurance that the stunning will be successful before the blood goes down, so it is practically necessary to do the stunning before it does. It is now clear that the practice of slaughter will become widespread in Finland to a significant extent and therefore there is no real possibility of monitoring whether the letter of the law will be implemented. This is a risk that should not be taken in a Western civilization. Under the guise of religion, no animal should be tortured, and we have no reasonable reason to allow it. When I considered my bill, I came across, among other things, the negative position that Animalian had previously expressed. It saw just the same problem as I did: stunning and bleeding just don’t work at the same time. Animalia is not the only organization involved in this, but one of them. We're not alone in our business. I was surprised, however, that the only people who could find signatories to my initiative were the political parties in Peruvian and Central Finland. I also expected some support from the Greens, because their party has been profiled as a friend of nature and animals. There was no support now, but hopefully there will be in the future. At least their supporters have received positive feedback from me. Representative Mäkipää asked a very good written question about the same subject. Mr Tiilikainen's reply stated the fact that we can regulate more than we do today. There is scope for national law-making in the closing regulation. Mr President! The steering group for the overall reform of the Animal Welfare Act has already stated that in the future all animals should always be stunned before the start of the blood count. There is therefore a clear line in the steering group and it should be brought into our legislation as quickly as possible. There is no reason to wait any longer for the work of the steering group to be completed, as this is quite clear and there is no clarity about the timetable for the overall reform. All we need now is the will to act in accordance with the principles of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u184	Madam President! Mahatma Gandhi aptly stated: The greatness and moral development of the nation determine how it treats its animals. Thank you very much, Mr Ronkainen, for taking this bill. I am very pleased to be chairman of the animal welfare group in this House when I see that there are so many representatives from Finland in this Chamber when it comes to the protection of animals. This is a very good and well-supported bill. Slaughter is often a distressing and painful experience for the animal, so slaughter should not be hindered by the animal’s blood count before stunning. I believe and hope that there is agreement in this Chamber on the good intentions of this bill. In this context, it is certainly also appropriate to say a few words and a wish for animal welfare legislation and for animals in general, because the opportunities to talk about animal rights are quite limited here in Parliament, because we have so many big and big things that take us all the time. But today it is possible to speak for the animals. According to the prevailing view, farm animals are, as a rule, regarded as a source of human income or food, meaning that animals are often seen as merely means of production, not as self - esteemed beings. I would therefore like the legislation to raise the animal's absolute value alongside the productive vision and beyond. Indeed, many domestic producers see absolute value in the animal, and I believe that this view will become even more widespread. In many Western countries, animals must be stunned before slaughter. In many lands, however, there are religious reasons to deviate from stunning. This means practically draining blood from a slaughter animal while it is still conscious. The problem for Finland is that although the so-called ritual slaughter here is banned, meat that has been slaughtered by ritual slaughter is still allowed here. Consumers' purchasing behaviour will therefore determine what kind of animal production we support. By buying domestic meat, we support domestic food production and by choosing products that take account of animal welfare, we can influence producers' ability to produce that ethical product. Mr President! The Animal Protection Act is being reformed. Twenty years have passed since the old law, so it is high time that the legislation was reformed in this respect. The law is now being prepared to promote animal welfare, which better reflects the current view of the treatment of animals. The new law should therefore become much better for animal welfare. Madam Speaker! I would also like to say a few words about the sanctions that are being imposed in Finland in the case of a serious animal-keeping crime. The sanctions are minimal. They won't come. They are small fines, rarely conditional and hardly ever — it is really rare — unconditional. The ban on keeping animals is not right, it is impossible to control it because there are no resources. The animal welfare team here in Parliament put a written question and a press release on the poisoning of dogs. It is being done all over Finland today, i.e. with its meatballs they put broken glass or some poison, which especially dogs and forest animals get really severe sickness attacks or die from. These are often left close to kindergartens and kindergartens today, so this situation is also a danger to children. Also last season, Mr Immonen and I asked a written question about the puppy factory, which is a major problem today. — We are running out of time, so I will take the floor later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u185	Madam President! The increase in the number of immigrants in Finland brings with it many different societal challenges and problems. One of the problems is, for example, that in Finland, there has been a worrying increase in the demand for and imports from abroad of meat slaughtered on religious grounds. For example, new halal slaughterhouses are currently being planned for the establishment of more in our country. After all, Halal-slaughtered meat is, according to Islam, correct-made meat in which the animal’s throat is cut without stunning. The animals are set toward Mecca, and before the throat is cut, prayer spells are pronounced. Also in Jewish kosher slaughter, the animal is slaughtered in the same manner without stunning. Mr President! I consider ritual slaughter to be a very serious phenomenon in Finland and elsewhere in Europe, because in a society built on civilisation and justice, we must ensure that not only human rights but also animal rights are realised. We must not allow any religious group to be exempt from the treatment of animals in Finland or from any other matter. Finnish legislation currently allows ritual slaughter only by stunning the animal at the same time when its throat is cut open with a knife and the animal’s blood is counted out. In many other countries, including Europe, religious groups are allowed to slaughter an animal without stunning, which is even more brutal because it causes the animal extra stress, pain, pain and suffering. Our Animal Protection Act clearly forbids suffering to be inflicted on an animal. If an animal is slaughtered in Finland by ritual rites, i.e. stunning is carried out simultaneously with a blood count, the vet must always be present. But let me just ask you how these ritual slaughterhouses have been and will be able to be monitored in the future in order not to break the rules. Unfortunately, we have had to see how ordinary slaughterhouses have had problems with the success of stunning animals and animals have been killed without a successful stunning. This has caused a great deal of concern to citizens, especially producers. So how can we allow the simultaneous stunning of ritual slaughters, the success of which is even more uncertain? For this reason, every slaughter should be done in such a way that the animal is always stunned before the blood is shed. Mr President! I warmly support this bill by Mr Ronkainen, which seeks to ban ritual slaughters in Finland. I think it would be a good continuation of this initiative if the import and sale of ritualised meat were also banned in Finland. Cases have come to the attention of the authorities where meat slaughtered by questionable means has been imported into Finland for sale and for own use. This is a phenomenon which undermines food safety, consumer rights and animal rights and which must be brought to an end. Mr President! It is extremely worrying that some of the associations and individuals working for animal rights think that ritual slaughter is a marginal problem. However, this is not really a marginal problem, for there are many billion people living in the world for whom it is important to have ritual - butchered meat at the table. The Halal symbol on the side of the product is also a kind of guarantee that the product sells. It is a carefully branded worldwide trademark. And Halal meat sells very well, and we also have buyers for it to an increasing extent in Finland. Mr President! I hope that these aspects will be taken into account when discussing this problem of ritual slaughter and also in the context of the ongoing reform of the Animal Protection Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u186	Mr President! Representative Ronkainen's bill is timely and important. An overall reform of the Animal Welfare Act is under way and its steering group has addressed the need for reform of the provision on religious slaughter. This is reflected in the Minister's report. In response to the written question I submitted in March 2016, "Is the reform of the Animal Welfare Act intended to prohibit the slaughter, import and sale of meat produced by religious rituals in Finland?".. According to the answer, the steering group has stated that in the future all animals should always be stunned before the start of the bleeding, but it did not indicate whether this will be recorded in the new law. It stated that in the current operating environment, the production of halal meat in Finland is the best way to prevent non-legislative slaughter procedures. Simultaneous stunning with blood loss is uncertain as well as difficult to implement and monitor. It is even possible that the simultaneous stunning will fail and that the animal will die of blood loss. The purpose of the current Animal Protection Act is to protect animals in the best possible way from suffering, pain and pain. The preparation of the new law must take greater account of the welfare of farmed animals as a key factor in ethical food production. In the past, many important issues have been heard about improving the welfare of farmed animals, but very little about banning unethical slaughter. As the demand for ritualised meat increases and the number of slaughterhouses specialising in it increases, there is a clear need to record stunning before slaughter. In addition to the need to bring this legislative amendment into force, there is a need for a significant increase in controls. Even now, suspicions of illegal slaughter have become public, and it is possible that this trend will continue. In the written question, I also asked for more effective controls, and the answer stated that in practice, unscathed slaughtering is combated, for example, by animal keepers considering to whom they sell their animals. I'm sure that's what a good owner does, but you can't leave surveillance on them. I have also asked about the possibility of banning the import and sale of unethical meat in Finland. The answer is that regulation must take into account the principles of EU law on the free movement of goods and, in principle, products lawfully placed on the market in other Member States must be accepted on the market throughout the Union. The reply states that the regulation of the trade in slaughtered meat must also take into account its link with religious freedom protected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Finnish Constitution. As stated in this bill, it is not a question of restricting freedom of religion, for no religion forces you to eat meat. Nor can freedom of religion allow animal abuse to be tolerated. I hope that this Ronkainen bill will be properly dealt with by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and that this bill will achieve this good result for animals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u187	Madam President! All the fundamental Finnish MPs in this Chamber! — — — — There are certainly no other Members of Parliament here, if the President does not count now, in this debate. Representative Ronkainen pointed out that he had collected names and names only from the Finns and Greens. You often hear in conversations that the Finns of Finland, you are a bit of a hard party, you have a little bit of junk at times, and are you now so interested in those animal rights? However, at the moment, all the important initiatives that have been taken to improve animal rights suddenly come from the Group of the Finns Party, and I am deeply surprised at this. However, I would like people to see that the Greens are currently doing nothing to improve animal rights. In the animal welfare group, which I also belong to and run by Kike Elomaa here in Parliament, the Finns of Finland are the most active members. It's like this. We are organising a joint meeting with Minister Tiilikainen on animal welfare law and many issues. I hope there will be other representatives there now. This is a very important issue. I'm not going to repeat much. Very good speeches have been made here that this regulation on the end of the EU does not really require that there should be any condition here that blood and stunning should be done at the same time, but it is there that it is stated that animal protection should be more extensive. In fact, we would not be obliged to have any such special regulation here if we did not want to. Here, Mr Immonen and perhaps someone else also pointed out that the problem is precisely when it cannot be ensured that the stunning is possible at the same time as the bleeding. Last autumn, an animal protection team made those recordings from ordinary slaughterhouses, and there were problems that deeply shocked the public. Then how can you be sure? Well, it was at the same time, it was gone. I do not think that Mr Tiilikainen has understood this issue with sufficient seriousness. Mr Mäkipää's written question was a good one. I read Minister Tiilikainen's answer, and there he really does say first that there are probably not a lot of illegal stunnings in Finland. So he doesn't know, he just says "probably." Then, indeed, as Mr Mäkipää said, this control has been left to animal keepers. Now, if I sell sheep somewhere, how can I know how they will be slaughtered and who has been sent there to buy them? It is the role of the legislator, my lord, to deal with such matters. Indeed, it is pointed out here that the best way is to prevent the non-legislative slaughter procedure. I don't really understand how he doesn't take this at all seriously. For us, these questions of animal protection are such that I do not understand the unnecessary action that has been taken against animals and people, which is causing pain and pain, not animals and not people. There has also been a discussion about the circumcision of boys, and Mrs Saarakkala has made it a legal initiative. I really hope it's moving forward. In my opinion, religion or belief must not cause pain and pain to others, nor any unnecessary pain or pain. I don't understand it at all. As a representative The hill-head said you don't have to eat that meat. As far as I'm concerned, we could totally ban this kind of trickery. I don't understand. This is precisely the fact that in our culture we have not considered these things acceptable, but we always deviate from it if religion so wishes. Indeed, here I was thinking to myself that whenever we have halal meat here in Parliament for sale — hopefully never. Indeed, I hope that this bill will succeed and that we will also involve the Green Members.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u188	Mr President! This bill intervenes in an important matter. Finland is a welfare state, and welfare and education include the proper treatment of animals and farm animals as an essential part of it. I don't think anyone's gonna object to that. Now that it is time to think about it, I find it strange why we should at least discuss this issue. People are concerned about the welfare of domestic animals, people are even concerned about the welfare of wild animals, people are following the Norp camera — which is of course a good thing — but at the same time Finnish law allows painful religious ritual slaughters. This shouldn't be possible. I do not hope that this bill will proceed without delay. I also support the idea expressed by Mr Immonen and many others that the possibility of prohibiting the sale of ritualised meat in Finland should be explored. If the production of a product is illegal under Finnish law, it would be unusual if it can be imported and sold abroad. I cannot see how the EU could force us to allow the sale of a product that is illegal in Finland. If the EU does, then the EU is wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u189	Madam President! I agree with the bill that the simultaneous stunning of the animal and the shedding of blood, that is, at the same time, must be prohibited. It must be done first to stun the animal and then to carry out the blood count if there is a need for it for any reason. I myself have intervened in this same matter during the last parliamentary term, and it did not progress at that time, unfortunately, but hopefully as a result of this good legislative initiative by Mr Ronkainen, for example, the Minister for Justice, Mr Lindström, will catch up and then help to move forward. Last autumn, we made difficult decisions here when, for example, we cut off their dietary allowance for celiacs, which plays a very important role in the success of the diet of low-income celiacs. For the coeliacian, gluten-free food is the only medicine. So we told these low-income celiacs in practice that you should take care of yourself, eat something else, but it is extraordinary if we cannot say here to Jews or Muslims that you should now try to get along without this halal meat. At least in this way it will not succeed that there will continue to be these shortcomings in this slaughter and allow the situation to remain that way. It can't be like this. We need to find a place in this Chamber now, as immigrants also flow very much into the country and have become... If we do not address this now, it is also a signal to these immigrants that we will welcome this way of doing things in the final games and we will overlook this. Now is the place to intervene, because if, after years, we get involved in this when the number of minorities has increased, it will be even more difficult then and there will be all kinds of riots and riots easily. Now would be the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u190	Madam President! To begin with, I would like to quote Mr Ronkainen's insightful and timely bill: "The various religious reasons have also brought a ritual slaughter to Finland, where the blood count begins simultaneously with the stunning of the animal. Simultaneous implementation and monitoring is extremely difficult, even impossible. As a result, it is too likely that the bleeding will begin before the animal is stunning. The risk will be considerably increased if the number of slaughterhouses carrying out this activity increases. It should also be noted that stunning is not even necessarily part of that religious slaughter. Before the fall of blood, it must be regarded as animal cruelty, which is unacceptable in a civilised state such as Finland. "' In Halal slaughter, the animal's throat is cut open and the animal's throat is pronounced "Allahu akbar". As stated in the bill, stunning does not necessarily belong to the practice of slaughtering Muslims, but varies in practice. It is clear that the Muslim invasion has led to an increase in demand for halal meat. That is why we urgently need a law to prevent such cruelty to animals. In addition, we need a deterrent effect, that is to say, severe enough punishment for breaking the law. Madam President! Torturing animals by spilling blood without stunning is only one example of the culture that has come to us with asylum tourism. There is no respect in that culture for animals and people, no women, no children — nor for men if they are infidels or some religious sect or false citizenship, tribe and so on. In that culture, many cannot even read or write in their own language, but in one respect they are at the forefront, namely in crime statistics. It is an indisputable fact both in us and elsewhere, and there is no hate speech or racism to say it out loud. The debate on immigration repeats that the sooner integration measures are launched, the better. I wonder what these fantasies are based on. Sweden has been integrating for about fifty years, and crime statistics there are very sad. Violence is rampant, slums are born like mushrooms in the rain. Ambulances and fire trucks are stoned and raped every day by 16 women. All this wealth has once come to such idyllic Sweden with asylum tourism, and the same is coming to us if we allow it to happen. Madam President! Halal slaughter is based on the Koran and other Muslim sacred books. The same works are based on numerous other guidelines and rules that are in complete conflict with our laws, our way of life and our moral beliefs. As long as these people want to live by their own rules regardless of our rules, there will be collisions. And they do, that's clear. But here we legislate, we represent Finns, and we need to create legislation that protects the Finnish life form from barbaric practices such as halal slaughter. Madam President! I suspect that even now, in the name of this religion, illegal slaughters are carried out all over Finland, in which animals are brutally tortured and tormented. I've been wondering where the people who used to be called fox girls are. Why are green-left anarchists silent about this? Over the years, they have made countless attacks on farms of Finnish farmers. After all, they have invaded the private areas of farmers, damaged their property, discredited the reputation of these people through campaigns. In the name of animal welfare, they have disrupted the livelihoods of farmers. So where are the videos of halal slaughter in Finland? What about the campaigns and the media? If silence is a sign of acceptance, as the saying goes, I will draw the conclusion that the Green Left accepts the torture of animals if it is done in the name of Islam. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u191	Madam President! In my bill, therefore, the starting point is strongly animal welfare. I myself am an active hunting enthusiast of a long background, although right now it has been left for a little less than that. But this issue has also been raised among hunters. We want to act in such a way that the animal is not subjected to unnecessary pain. This must be the case whenever we talk about either a farm animal or a game. The way in which we act cannot be what our legislation now allows. Animal organisations have strongly criticised this, including Animalia. It is impossible to understand that religion allows evil against animals. I also think it is necessary to clarify whether a ban on imports and sales of ritualised meat could also be imposed. That is what Mr Immonen and some others have already said. Nor can ivory be imported to Finland, for example. This is something that is worth considering in reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u192	Mr President! I would like to thank all the speakers who have spoken on this subject, and they are very good speakers. Mr Meri, thank you for reminding us of the occasion on 15 June, which will also be attended by Minister Tiilikainen. Representative Thank you, Mr Mäkipää, for the written question about this bill, which you have already made before. Representative Ronkainen raised this hunter issue, and when it came to these elephant teeth question, here are a few things about what is happening abroad. This is where the Citizen Info showed Blood Lions. Thank you very much, Emma Kari, for getting this film to be shown here. It was shocking to see. So in it little lion cubs are raised on farms just to be shot in cold blood in a small area. The great white hunters come, and the lion has no chance. The future of the species is also at stake. It's a shocking movie. I wish everyone could see that. Also frozen tiger cubs that were in the tabloids a few days ago — shocking. They're made of glue, and that's a belief. It'll make you feel better. In South Korea, dog torture: They're skinned alive. Let's hit him, torture the dogs, make that meat taste better. A man from the Basque province has taken the initiative to do so. Battle dogs. There's a lot of work to be done abroad. Of course, we are focusing on the domestic situation and trying to make things better here, but we cannot turn a blind eye to these outrageous acts of what is happening to animals abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u193	Mr President! Let me pick up briefly where I left off in my previous speech. So, as I pointed out in the first speech, this problem of ritual slaughter is in danger of being blown up in Finland as well. We have already seen and heard unfortunate examples of this growing problem. In the most recent case, sheep carcasses were found in Finland, which are suspected to be the cause of illegal ritual slaughter. That is why, among other things, the veterinarian has warned sheep producers not to sell sheep to persons who may be suspected of illegally killing sheep with ritual rites. The EU Commission has been saying years ago that ritualised meat should not be used by non-religious groups. Nevertheless, there are several dozen — if not hundreds — restaurants in our country that sell halal-slaughtered meat, and they do not necessarily report it even to the consumer when asked. The reason for the Commission's line is clear. Ritual slaughter causes extra pain and suffering for the animal and the Commission does not consider it advisable for everyone to eat meat that has been unethically slaughtered. And the ritualised meat is precisely the unethically slaughtered meat. Mr President! It is now time for Finland to extend sufficient rights not only to humans but also to animals. In this regard, we must follow the example of Denmark, which is to ban ritual slaughter and offer consumers ethically slaughtered meat. I very much hope that Mr Ronkainen's bill will continue to receive support from other animal friends here in Parliament, even though, for example, no representatives of the Greens or other political left-wing party were found among the signatories – only the Finns of Finland and the Centre Party. And yes, I genuinely wonder why animal rights do not seem to be of interest to anyone in this Parliament at the moment but us Finns. I feel really special about this, and I'm also sorry about that. Mr President! Animal rights must prevail over the brutal cultural traditions of religious groups and their differences. Animal cruelty in the form of ritual slaughter must not belong to Finland, neither now nor in the future. And yes, I only personally hope that people who are prone to such animal cruelty will unequivocally either stop the cruelty of animals or, alternatively, move on to practice this ritual slaughter in the country where it is considered to be generally accepted. But in Finland we must no longer allow this to happen. I wish this bill all the best.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u194	Madam President! It's so good that you can't get your mouth open right now, even though I usually get it pretty fast. In that sense, I would like to thank Mrs Elomaa for bringing up this event and then talking about these international events, these tiger cubs and indeed these Asian dog-eating events, where millions of dogs are subjected to this torture every year, and all these other beliefs. In China, for example, it takes bile from bears and it is used in people for the strangest things, and it is a very painful way. In that sense it relates to this matter and to Finland, that if we accept a method based on religion, we will open the door to it constitutionally, because the Constitution says that no one should be discriminated against because of religion. If we open this gate to anyone, then we risk having large minorities who have these traditions — whatever it may be — having to do different methods to make that meat better or whatever it is — under the guise of religion or belief — then we have no choice but to accept it. I always fear in these that it is thought that, well, it is this one, and here it is so confirmed, but when we go into our constitutional interpretation, the end result may be that we will soon have a very wide range of events here and then the traditional appreciation of our Finns for our animals will disappear. As far as those hunters are concerned, the hunters are very responsible in Finland. My father is a hunter too, and by the way he's the only one there who's going to feed those deer and deer even on a winter frost with his bad knee. I haven't seen any of those animal protectors yet. Hunters should be appreciated. They are highly skilled and very animal lovers, just like my father and I. All the best for this bill. At least I'm definitely pressing the jaa button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u195	Madam President! All the best for this bill. We'd have a good way to stop this kind of halal slaughter. If these are Islamic believers who bring this custom here, they will be given pork, and if not, they will go away.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u196	Mr President! It has been good to hear interesting speeches, for which I thank you all. After all, the bill now moves to committee, and it is hoped that there will then be a lively debate. I hope that there will be a common view across the party borders that our legislation on animal welfare will be amended as soon as possible in this respect too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-19-ps-55.u197	Madam President! Thank you, too, for a good debate on my part. Let us really hope for success in this legislative initiative, because the situation is little that these certain issues, which often remain a little under-examined here, which are labelled marginal, will easily move forward at the latest in the form of a citizens' initiative. When we have a part of the representatives who are inclined to criticise our citizens' initiative institution, then it is worth looking in the mirror and asking whether these things should be dealt with, and we know that there is a vast majority of them here, however, of this opinion, what is required of this bill, so that why on earth are we not dealing with it? Or is it a party political question that this initiative is being put out of the wrong direction, because even now, for example, the Greens have not been involved in this? There will then be no alternative but to promote these issues through the citizens' initiative. If that happens, then we are undermining the authority of our Parliament, but it is the very choice of our parliamentarians, so all the best for this initiative. - Thank you.
