ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u1	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of 3. matter. First, on the basis of the report YmVM 11/2016 vp of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the decision will be taken on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then at second reading on the draft legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u2	Madam President! I think it is wonderful and important that this report has been adopted unanimously in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and that we are also making a strong contribution to the Paris agreement on climate change for Finland. It is equally important, however, that together we take the message from Finland that we can do those climate actions, use our forests sustainably and, when we manage our forests, keep the growth of forests going, as we did in recent years. I would therefore appeal to Parliament, for example in LULUCF, to take all of us together as a basis for science as to the basis for our policy and not to look through any other spectacles on these issues. In other words, when we move this issue of climate change forward and define criteria, it would be important for us to be united in this area as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u3	Mr President! Now that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is lauding its praise for this Paris climate agreement and notes that it is historic, I would like to make a general warning about this touching ambition and direction in relation to the fight against climate change and the position of a small, indebted, prosperous and job-creating Finland in it. Today Helsingin Sanomat wrote in his editorial that forests can become emissions to Finland. I am deeply concerned about this. The government is quite right to envisage a strong additional exploitation of our only significant resource, the forest. It is obvious to everyone living in Finland that the forest is a carbon sink, but if the calculation methods for the Commission's sinks are fulfilled, the forests can become a burden for Finland and a calculated source of emissions. This can't be happening. Mr President! I hope that the government and the corresponding minister will be particularly careful in this hopeless battle against the absurdity of the bureaucrats in Brussels, who are apparently trying to turn the carbon sink into a source of emissions. It cannot be that because of bad lobbying and green lobbying, the Finnish citizen is being paid again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u4	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes that Parliament approve the Paris Agreement of December 2015 in Paris, which is subject to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The achievement of the Paris climate agreement is an historic achievement and it is good that it enters into force quickly and has been widely ratified. It is also positive that the world's worst greenhouse gas emitters, the United States and China, have committed themselves to the Paris Agreement in September this year. Many other key countries for international climate policy, such as Canada, Brazil and India, are also committed to the agreement. The United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol and has not been involved in meeting its emission reduction commitments for the first and second commitment periods, and this is the first time that it has been involved in these emission reduction measures. The name of the great and powerful Russia is still missing. The aim of the Government proposal is to obtain Parliament's consent to the Paris Agreement. It should not be difficult, as there seems to be an agreement in Parliament on the need for it. The objective of the Paris Agreement is to keep the global average temperature increase well below 2°C and to try to limit the average temperature increase to 1.5°C relative to pre-industrial time. I have also heard claims that, according to studies, the global climate would not have risen on average for 19 years, even though the amount of carbon dioxide has increased. But the agreement aims to strengthen adaptability and climate resilience and to direct financial flows towards low-emission development. If we look at the climate situation in Finland and how it has changed over the decades, at least winters have warmed up, but summers may not be warm anymore. In other parts of the world, sea levels have risen and floods have worsened and are threatening low island states. There are also more tropical storms and droughts, and the earth’s glaciers are feared to melt. It is estimated that polar glaciers and Greenland will melt, but it will probably take tens of thousands of years. in Africa, and In addition to famine, there is a risk of water shortages in Asia, and it may well be thought that this is partly due to the influx of refugees from Asia that is not going to end. One might well think that the development aid that has been exported to these countries has gone to the right places and things. In Finland, the growing season may be prolonged, which I think is only a good thing. Maybe we'll get two crops a year in the future. As the climate warms and solid ice melts, the opening of the North-West and North-East Passage also raises great hopes for shorter sea routes between Asia and Europe, for example. The Northwest Passage is a good example of a sea area where ice conditions and shallow waters disturb seafarers. If the Northwest Passage were properly opened, it would shorten the sea voyage from Shanghai to Rotterdam, for example, by some 2,200 nautical miles compared to the Panama Canal. Last year There were only 13 ships passing through the Northwest Passage. You could expect the same with the Northeast Passage. It has been estimated that Chinese foreign trade, for example, would: As early as 2020, 5-15 % along the north-east route. Last year there were 18 ships on the Northeast Passage. For the sake of comparison, at the same time, almost 14,000 vessels passed through the Panama Canal and nearly 18,000 through the Suez Canal. This leads to the conclusion that shipping companies are investing in the reliability and safety of maritime routes, so they are not enthusiastic about routes that are only used for a part of the year due to ice conditions. In the Arctic, insurance premiums are also between 50 % and 100 % higher than elsewhere, resulting in cost savings from the use of north-west and north-east routes falling into high insurance premiums. However, it is clear that the melting of ice will increase the use of Arctic waters in the energy and raw materials sectors. In recent years, many companies have invested billions in oil rights in Alaska. Madam President! The Government's proposal tells very little about the economic impact on Finland. Estimates of impacts on Finland have been made in the context of measures in line with the EU's emission reduction targets and nationally selected actions. The Paris Agreement obliges developed countries to continue supporting and providing information on climate action in developing countries. In the agreement itself, I did not see anything to be said about the level of climate finance. The Paris Agreement is a so-called mixed agreement which contains provisions which fall within the competence of both the EU and its Member States. In my opinion, this burden-sharing target of 39% is too high. Finland must continue to be able to decide its own forestry and energy policy. We must not commit ourselves to agreements that continue to undermine our country's economy and employment. It is not in the interests of Finland. Is it in Finland's interest that energy-efficient industries should be abolished from Finland and transferred to Asia to areas of more freer pollution? I don't think so. However, I hope that all countries, including the great and powerful Russia, will commit themselves to this Paris Agreement and that everyone will be treated equally. It must be the will of every country and nation if we really want to improve climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u5	Mr President! I presented the unanimous report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection at the plenary session last Friday and I am not going to repeat this speech here. I would just like to point out at this meeting that the committee sees climate change mitigation measures as a positive opportunity for Finland and that environmental technology, cleantech, has already grown into an important industry in Finland and the demand for this sector in the world. It is a good opportunity for Finland, and the Paris Agreement will also contribute to this development. The Committee on the Environment also points out that, according to Sitra’s report, the emission reduction rate in Finland and the EU should in fact be faster than the rate to which the EU has committed itself by 2030. According to Sitra, in 2030 the EU's emission reduction target should be 60% reduction rather than 40%, as agreed in the EU, in order to achieve the overall reduction in emissions in the smartest economic way. The extent to which this Paris Agreement is sympathetic to the world is illustrated by the fact that at the end of last week there were 81 countries that ratified the Paris Agreement, today there are already 85. And indeed, the Paris Agreement is coming into force at an unprecedented speed, faster than any international agreement before that. Finally, on forests, Mr President, when we talk about forests as a carbon sink, we must also take into account, in the name of science, the fact that sinks can be reduced or enlarged, and if we significantly reduce the carbon sink in forests in Finland, that is a bad thing for the climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u6	Madam President! It is valuable that this Paris agreement should be dealt with in a spirit of unanimity. That's a good thing. But what I would like to pay particular attention to is how it will then be implemented, that is to say, a mixed agreement through various rules and laws and directives which come to Finland. That is why we in the European Union must have a complete and national interest in lobbying. It could be said here to the Swedes, to the neighbours in the West and to our colleagues there that they have done an exemplary job of lobbying. For them, bombs like this... If, for example, huge payments are suddenly being made to power plants using wood and peat — possibly, if the issue currently under negotiation in the European Union is going in the direction that it currently seems to be — then these must be avoided, because Finnish energy production is one of the cleanest in the world, if not the cleanest, and, to top it all, we are still using our own raw materials and not transporting them over long distances from abroad by boat or train or by any other means. So our energy production in Finland is clean, and we need not be ashamed of it in front of anyone. When Minister Kimmo Tiilikainen is here, I will take this opportunity to ask: On these important issues for Finland, such as the sustainability criterion for renewable energy, as well as on these power plant issues, do we have the kind of lobbying in the European Commission, generally at European Union level, that we do not have such surprising bombs, which could cost hundreds of millions of domestic renewables? This is unheard of if this happens. Do we have any lobbying there? The Swedes here know how to do this job very well. In this regard, we Finns should take a little course to visit the western neighbor. But I'll ask Tiilikainen if we have this lobbying up to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u7	Madam President! In this Chamber we have discussed the possibilities of cleantech in Finland on several occasions as a result of this Paris Agreement. It is also said that from fossil to renewables there will be cash flows of EUR 16000 billion and the peak of investments will be around 2030. This means, of course, that now is the time to innovate and develop solutions so that they will be ready in 14 years' time. Michael Porter of Harvard University has studied the way this kind of tightening environmental steering affects the activities of companies and the state, and the result of the study is that tightening environmental steering leads to the growth of company profits with the benefits of new innovations and pioneering. Of course, we should be involved in this. Now that we have a great opportunity when Minister Tiilikainen is here — and I thank him again for the excellent way through the Paris Agreement — I would like to ask about the joint role of the Nordic countries. What joint actions and what will the Nordic countries have in that Marrakesh negotiations and in the energy and climate sectors in general? For example, we have a report from the Nordic Council in which we have jointly hoped for transparency and computational capacity to be achieved in precisely these frameworks, the capacity building of developing countries to operate together, the common objectives of biomass and then the further improvement of the common electricity market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u8	Before the Minister, Mr Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u9	Mr President! The challenges of this world are not lacking, but climate change is definitely the greatest challenge of our time. In that sense, this Paris agreement is a positive thing and a great opportunity. Of course, there can be many opinions on its significance, but for the first time in the world there seems to be some common vision of how to respond to this huge challenge. The positive thing is, of course, that this ratification threshold was exceeded so quickly. It is essential that this monitoring is included in the agreement. I would like to emphasise, as the committee has also done, these very positive aspects, which have been raised here by previous speakers. These stringent emission reduction targets contribute to the emergence of technology and to the creation of a domestic market, which is important that we also get there on the world market. Cleantech is one of our top areas, and we are one of the leading countries in it, and this is one of the strong growth sectors in the world. Finally, in order to achieve this objective of less than 2°C, the level of ambition must be high and even higher than what we are talking about. Finland is well placed for more ambitious emission targets, and in this context I could ask the Minister how he sees Finland's potential for even more ambitious targets for reducing emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u10	Next up, Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u11	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Parliament, its Committee on the Environment and other committees on this subject, for their unanimous report. It gives you a good backrest and support. The Paris Agreement was a turning point in international climate negotiations, as it was accepted in practice by all the countries capable of nailing it. Hardly anyone then thought it could be ratified so quickly less than a year ago, but fortunately China and the United States, as the largest emitters and polluters, wanted to be closely involved in this. In fact, it was the EU, which was now in a bit of a hurry and haste, that the agreement would not slip into force by accident until it was ratified by the EU, so that the EU would not necessarily have a say at the next climate conference. Well, now more than 80 countries have ratified and cover more than 60% of global emissions. So the agreement comes into force. In this, the representatives presented a number of good points of view. I'll take this cleantech point of view next. We have long been talking about the possibilities of clean technology. The Government sets the goal for Finland to be a pioneer in the bioeconomy, circular economy, clean solutions. In fact, that Paris agreement means that we now have a very stable and predictable environment for decades to come, where renewable energy, energy efficiency, low-emission technology, both in industry and in energy production, is being emphasised, and in general, such a clean technology market is faced with entirely new opportunities. The competition in this area is tough, but Finns have a chance to succeed in that race if they wish, and I hope that it will be used to the full. Forests were raised in the speeches of some representatives. In fact, the Paris Agreement, which is now being ratified, has taken very good account of forests. I dare say that because I happened to be in the negotiating group that finally approved those forestry issues. The important thing is that the Paris Agreement does not just talk about reducing emissions but recognises the importance of sinks, including the importance of forests. The objective is that emissions and sinks will be balanced in the second half of this century, that is, in 35 years' time. This means that we have an incentive for good forest management worldwide. But the EU's climate package for 20 to 30 years now shows this in no way, but the EU package is still, as it were, the world of Kyoto. and this is of course the most important attempt to influence Finland to get this forest management in such a way that there will also be incentives in the EU for good forest management and also for growing sinks through it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u12	You'll get another chance to speak later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u13	Mr President! It was useful to hear Minister Tiilikainen speak. Indeed, as Mr Kosonen has done here, we must thank Mr Tiilikainen for the work he did in Paris as part of the EU's negotiating board and also for the whole package of combating climate change here in the country. In fact, I would like to ask, although there is a consensus here, why do we really need the Greens when we have the Minister? The brick represents this real greenness in such an excellent way. But really this is a big question, and there is a real danger that this climate change will start feeding itself more. That is certainly why we need more action and international cooperation in the future. Indeed, the polluter should always pay, and that is not enough of what these systems are doing. But of course, Finland must take advantage of these own opportunities at cleantech, as stated here, and it really requires strong efforts as the government's top project.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u14	Mr President! Transport is one of the biggest sources of emissions. As has been said, rapid solutions are needed to limit emissions, thus also increasing demand for better fuels. For the joy and benefit of our Finns Liquid can reduce transport emissions on an industrial scale with renewable NEXBTL fuels. These fuels can directly replace conventional fuels. Very positive developments have already been made in climate matters, as the core strategies of many large companies have carbon footprint management and CO2 emissions are therefore an important business criterion. Mr President! Better and cleaner fossil fuels are also needed in the market, such as low-sulphur marine fuels. For these fuels, too, Finnish Neste has a long and good history in the field of fuels. Mr President! I myself belong to Neste’s Advisory Board and can therefore give you these good examples from there. They also have different skills in the reprocessing of waste and residues, such as bioplastic, which binds carbon to itself and limits CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u15	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank you for the contribution that the Minister for the Environment has made. In the climate negotiations in Paris, Tiilikainen has given. I myself was pulling the Finnish delegation out of three of these five climate negotiations, which laid the foundations for this agreement over the last five years, and I have also received commendable feedback on the role of Minister Tiilikainen in Paris. But this is now the framework for reducing emissions to which all countries are committed. We have brought together all the countries of the world — no longer considering the role of the industrialised and developing countries individually, but all of us working together to introduce clean technologies and reduce their emissions, to jump over the coal-intensive phase. But we also know that the commitments made together in Paris are not enough to limit global warming to even 2°C, not to mention the objective of 1.5°C. We know that over the next five years, we will assess the progress made by the various countries in their emission reductions and will tighten these emission reduction targets. So the direction is that the EU's 2030 target itself is the basis and should be tightened up, as Mrs Hassi has already pointed out. How is Finland prepared now to actually implement these decisions and recognise that all expert knowledge says that it would be worthwhile proactively implementing emission reduction targets in advance and taking into account 2050, the long-term objective, and not slowly leaving behind, because then our industry and technological development would not be the first to introduce clean solutions and take them to the world, but we would be conservative adapters? This is where other countries are doing a great deal at the moment. My question to Minister Tiilikainen is that, if Norway is considering a ban on internal combustion engines as early as 2025, Germany 2030, many countries will start to ban the use of coal by law, whether Finland is actually taking ambitious measures in accordance with our climate law and climate and energy strategy with renewable energy and energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u16	Mr President! However, it is important to emphasise how big a step has been taken globally, when at the moment those who pretend that nothing is going to happen are obliged to explain how they are reacting to this climate change. In other words, it is clear that we need to take action quickly rather than later. The Committee on the Environment also notes that Finland is well placed to achieve more ambitious emission reduction targets. However, work still needs to be done in this regard, although it has already been said, for example, that in the case of renewable energies we already have all the leverage in hand. The question is how to introduce these. In this case, in order to speed up this process, we have an instrument in this Paris climate agreement, and that is the five-yearly amendments. I believe that Finland, as a country of educated people – and I hope it will invest even more in education and innovation – is a platform for knowledge that must really seize these opportunities, which cleantech and also all the energy-efficient services that the future demands of us, so that we are the ones who are taking them up in the front line. This is in fact the only chance for countries like Finland to survive in global competition, including in terms of growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u17	Madam President! The creation of the Paris agreement on climate change is an important issue and it is good if the ambitious objectives that are in it are achieved. And the fact that so many countries are committed to it is extremely important. In Finland, we act in an exemplary way. We usually want to do everything in a forward-looking way. We have a huge resource in the forests, not only because we are able to exploit them economically, but also from the point of view of carbon sinks. In my opinion, Mr Niinistö raised an extremely important issue: the dismantling of coal mountains from this country. I would ask the Minister what measures we could take to speed up the reduction in the use of coal in Finland and replace it with domestic energy, forest chips and its support fuel peat, which also employs but is a much more environmentally friendly way of producing energy than coal mountains, what we have here. Madam Speaker! This agreement has now been ratified by more than 80 countries, and it is good that China and the United States are involved in it, but, of course, with regard to these giants, there is always great concern whether they will deliver on the promises they have made. This is where small Finland works exemplaryly, but are the big ones working? I would therefore like to ask how this impact assessment will now be carried out in the future, so that everyone who has signed the agreement will also carry it out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u18	Madam President! The Paris Agreement is a very important issue for our society and it is very good that there is such a broad consensus here in Parliament that Finland is involved in this. Finland has always managed, and responsibly, its share in the agreements in which Finland is involved — and I am sure that it is also in this Paris agreement. I hope that the other signatories of the agreement, the more than 80 countries, will also be truly committed to it when they sign it. All in all, it will only be concrete measures in the years to come that will show how all the countries that have signed the agreement will react to this agreement. A lot has been said in this Chamber about Finland’s forests being a carbon sink. They are indeed a carbon sink and also a great opportunity for Finland in the future. In Finland in general, forests have been managed in a sustainable way, and certainly in the future. The Paris Agreement is also a great opportunity for Finland and Finnish companies, for product development, cleantech, as has already been mentioned here. The future of renewable energy is indeed possible with today's technology now and in the future. When different forms of energy have been mentioned here, I would also like to raise solar energy and its potential in the future. It is also a big opportunity for Finland, even though we are here in the north, but that is the big challenge of getting electricity stored. All in all, since the Minister for the Environment is here, I would like to ask how you personally see the opportunity here. The Paris Agreement is for Finnish companies in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u19	Madam President! It is important that all the contracting countries implement and do the things that have been agreed together. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. Of course, it is always good that some do, but yes, if we think about the earth as a whole, everyone should do it. As far as that carbon sink is concerned, I would say that I went to the Forest Academy and there was Minister Tiilikainen giving us an opening speech about this carbon sink and I myself received good training and recommend this Forest Academy to everyone, because at least I had a completely different look at this forestry and carbon sink when I was able to concentrate on it for once and not just on the headlines. But I would like to remind you of an issue connected to this as a whole, namely the explosive growth of the world's population and the over-consumption that will result from it. We had the 8th of August this year's World Overconsumption Day. It was again a week earlier than the year before. As I look at the website of the World Natural Foundation (WWF), we are currently consuming 1.6 earths of natural resources constantly. When, in some context, there was a great deal of discussion and trendy talk about this population growth — that, if it is growing, of course, we need more food and products — is there any depth of discussion about this? I have no longer noticed much discussion about it, it may be a little awkward at times, and I understand that in itself. But, for example, if there are really many people, there is a need for food, and here on the website of the WWF there is also the fact that at least 70 percent of the world's agricultural land is used for the production of animal-based food and, for example, in Amazon rainforest, the spread of meat cattle pastures and feed crops is a key cause of deforestation. I would like to hear some of the Minister's ideas on this. What can be done about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u20	And before the minister, Mr Pirttilat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u21	Madam President! The Paris Agreement is a good one and it would now be good to have it as comprehensive as possible and to involve all the countries in it. Of course, I would like to add my thanks to the Minister and also to the committee for this quick and well-prepared opinion. But unfortunately, the world is still very fossil. Oil, gas and coal currently account for about 78% of the world's energy resources and use, and we only have 19 renewables. It is estimated that between 2010 and 2035 the share of gas, oil and coal will increase by another 20,000 TWh per year. So we need all the countries involved in these measures, and there is so much to do about how we can make this world less fossil. But is that the direction of the EU right now, and is that fair? For example, even in the distribution of burdens, we give much easier and cheaper opportunities, for example in Poland, to bludgeon coal. And it cannot simply be considered that it is a matter of state poverty, because there are also international companies, which means that these international players should also be obliged to do the same. The second, which does not seem very fair at the moment, is the peat that Mr Savola has just raised, but also the share of particulate emissions from our chips. So for coal, the drop in particulate emissions is about 10%.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u22	Secretary Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Niinistö asked how Finland has anticipated future treaty revisions, whether we have ambitious targets. Yeah. In the government negotiations, we listed targets, increase the share of renewable energy to more than 50%, get rid of coal, halve the use of imported oil over the next decade,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u30	Mr President! Mr Tiilikainen is right that the government put in place its programme to achieve the 2020 targets six months ahead of time, but he did not say that the timetable was such that, thanks to the policy of previous governments, it was already in the process of being implemented. You simply put it on paper, that is to say, it was not speeding up the implementation of the emission reductions, but it was making sense that this is what it looks like. Now the fight against climate change really requires concrete action, not just nonsense, and then we talk about what the concrete measures are, what this government could do. You say that you are doing two different programmes, but you have been sitting for two years soon and terrible things have not happened yet. So now we need concrete decisions to reduce emissions from transport, housing, energy production, and the idea that all energy produced in Finland would be somehow clean just because it is from Finnish forests is not sustainable, but that science should be respected and that we should try to implement the most cost-effective emission reduction solutions quickly, so that we can also have those export markets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u31	Mr President! Mr Niinistö was calling for timetables here, and I believe that energy policy and, in particular, major, major investments in energy policy must also enjoy some form of social investment protection. A policy that, if someone makes an investment of 150 million, we will change these objectives around Parliament in three to four years' time is not possible, because everyone knows that these cities, which have made these counter-pressure plants, have done so from the point of view and in the belief that this fuel supply will work for decades or even further. As far as this matter is concerned in energy policy, I personally welcome Statistics Finland’s statistics, where coal use has halved in Finland in 10 years — it is, of course, the same thing that we are talking about here in the Chamber, at least I myself trust Statistics Finland’s statistics. But what is most important — unfortunately, the Minister would be able to leave here — is that until now Finland has maintained forest policy
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u32	Madam President! It sounds kind of acidic, said the fox about the locust berries. The Greens have dominated municipal policy in Helsinki, and here that policy is coal black. Fortunately, in the Government Programme, we were already able to make strong policies so that we know that this direction must now change. We have a target of 50% of 2050 energy coming from renewable sources and 40% of cars moving on renewables. These are the goals that the government in which the Greens sat did not believe could not achieve. There will be government proposals next year, and before that we will be working together on an energy and climate strategy, just as Mr Tiilikainen said. I am proud of these sections in the Government Programme, as I am proud of the section of the circular economy, which also plays a major role in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u33	Mr President! Centralists should hope that the Greens will win even more in municipal elections in Helsinki in order to get rid of the remaining coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u34	Madam President! I am pleased to report that the majority of Finnish municipalities are warming up with domestic renewable energy, and we also hope that these municipalities will go where you, the Greens, have a say in decision-making. In order for these municipalities to be able to warm up with renewables in the future, and for us to be able to manage our forests even more, I also call on the experts of the Natural Resources Centre to be listened to to to believe in science. In fact, it is very simple to ask whether forests are a source of emissions or whether they are binding on coal. Imagine that all the trees would be cut down in the forests and put the asphalt on top — there will be no emissions after that, but surely we would lose the carbon sequestration site that we now have. In other words, if we continue to make forests grow more and more, we will be able to tie it up with coal. This is the central objective, this is the objective of the government programme, but it cannot
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u35	Let us get back to that list, and there are still a number of speakers who have been asked to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u36	Mr President! Two things must now be distinguished: one is in itself the ratification of the Paris Agreement, and the other is the way in which we are speeding up the climate work in the EU and in Finland. As I said in the debate on Friday, the government and Minister Tiilika can thank not only for the role played in the negotiation of the Paris Agreement but also for contributing to its rapid ratification. However, as the Committee on the Environment states, the Paris agreement itself in order to achieve the objectives of climate change mitigation, to achieve the warming limits, the emission reduction targets of both Finland and the EU should be tightened compared to those adopted so far. Many colleagues have highlighted different parts of Finnish environmental technology, i.e. cleantech. Here I would like to point out one thing that has not been mentioned: smart grid technology, where Finnish experts have a very good chance of developing solutions that are needed all over the world when the whole world is increasingly going to produce its electricity with renewable energy. Investments in renewable energy in the world have increased at a very high rate, and it is probably because of this that global energy-related emissions have not increased for a few years. We do not know whether this is a sign that they are already going down, or whether it is just a level, but it is a very positive sign. Finally, I would like to point out to Mrs Merelle, who raised the issue of population growth, that the most important way of limiting population growth is to ensure that families do not have to have unwanted children. In Finland’s development cooperation
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u37	Mr President! Representative Niinistö here said that Helsinki is giving up coal, and so I have read, and this is a good thing. But could you, Mr Niinistö, tell this hall: What is really happening in Helsinki? Is it my opinion that Helsinki will give up its counter-pressure force? Repressurised force means that heat and electricity are produced at the same time, and the efficiency is overwhelming. Now, in my opinion, Helsinki will no longer build back-pressure power plants, it will give up the electrical component and Finland will lose its power. At the moment, when we already have a shortage of more than 3000 megawatts in the best frosts, this problem in Finland is getting worse. So is it part-optimisation of energy policy, in which case the use of coal will be reduced and abandoned, but Finland will lose its power? I would like you to answer this question on energy policy. Does the coin have two sides? Do you give up those back-pressure power plants that are by far the best energy invention in Finland and by far the most efficient way to produce electricity? The real issue concerns forestry policy: Until now, Finland’s goal has been to keep forest policy in its own hands. Unfortunately, the Minister would be able to leave here — I would have asked whether Finland's objective is still the same, that forestry policy is kept in its own hands. I understand the Paris Agreement and, like everyone else here, I praise it, so should action be taken, but there is a clear risk that with this LULUCF combination we will create in Finland a bureaucracy that does not necessarily have anything to do with proportionality. So if anything matters, it means that forests are disappearing, and carbon sinks are disappearing, but I do not think that the fact that some time horizon is being cut down or cut down will have a great deal of significance globally, but at its worst it will harm the competitiveness of the Finnish forest industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u38	Värderade Talman! I should like to thank you for the rapid progress of this process and also for the good objectives of the Government Programme on these matters. However, when it comes to implementation, we must remember that they will then require reflection and a science-based approach. Unfortunately, what we have heard about peat as a solution in this debate does not refer to science, but to a large extent to regional policy. If it goes ahead to solve these problems, then there will be no good work. Mr Kulmala spoke at the beginning of the debate on agriculture and how perhaps more hundreds will be obtained in the future. However, with these changes there are many other things that happen: shrinking biodiversity, warm winters, colder summers, larger weather changes, heavy rains, extreme phenomena overall. Now Minister Tiilikainen is no longer here, and perhaps I will refer this question to Mr Leppa, who knows what his view is of what the changing agricultural conditions and challenges and risks are. Much has also been said about sinks and the use of wood as part of it. As you build from wood, one kilo of dry wood binds closer to two kilos of coal. In order to promote wood construction, the government is apparently doing things, and I personally rejoiced at the excellent writing by representatives Kosonen and Honkone. Hesar the other week. I would like to ask the members of the government parties: is it the case that next year the tree returns in Finland as poorly as in Sweden? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u39	Mr Kalmari, you asked for a reply, but I will not admit it, but the actual speech, because you are next on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u40	Madam President! I still want to go to this land use, but before that, I will respond to the previous representative as to whether we use all the parts of the wood in a reasonable way, climate-friendly way or not. Of course, it is climate-friendly that we do not disintegrate the rest of the wood for which there is no reasonable use in construction or through pulp, for example, in making bioproducts. Of course, it makes sense for that tree to burn. It would be a waste of resources if that tree didn't return. If we are still thinking about what has been thought about here many times, that is to say, it is thought that the concentration of people in large centres would be somehow more environmentally friendly, even if the centre then warms up with coal, this has no basis, according to the latest Aalto University studies. Already in Heinonen’s first studies it was found that, in fact, rural people leave a much smaller carbon footprint when you look at it all, the whole thing that man produces, not just housing and the environment. But in that debate, which is why I asked to speak, there were changes in land use and deforestation. Just as we have different researchers in the world, some researchers do not accept or still do not believe that climate change will even happen and that people can influence it through their own actions, just as there are researchers who do not accept the view of mainstream researchers that Finnish forests are carbon sinks. But perhaps we should not go after individual scientists, but look at the natural science base, where most of them are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u41	Mr President! If I were downtown right now, I'd be talking about what I was thinking about talking about. In other words, when I was the Minister for the Environment and Durban negotiated these rules for the second Kyoto commitment period, Finland was given a solution in which forests can be exploited, and then, even if the deforestation could no longer be compensated indefinitely by the cultivation of these carbon sinks, we received compensation for the internal burden sharing within the EU. I worked hard to do that, and I hope Mr Leppä will remember to respect it, because now it looks like it. Mr President! After all, it would now be essential to identify how in Finland — that is, the municipalities, the state and all the actors in our business sector — can be harnessed as effectively as possible in different sectors to identify long-term effective emission reduction measures so as not to start investing for a few years in a cycle and budget for 20 to 30 years. In that, Mr Eestilä was quite right that we should look a long way, and that is why this government should now implement such a change in incentive schemes that low-emission solutions would be profitable even now. The price of allowances on the EU market is now too low and this government has not managed to achieve any new incentive system for renewable energy. Now it is needed, because the problem now is that new energy investments will not start in Finland at all. We are sticking to this old energy structure and we would need an efficient auction-based system in which renewable energy can be produced on a cost-effective basis on the market every year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u42	Mr President! To Mr Niinistö, I would like to say briefly that we know about this compensation negotiation that you have had, but it did not change the basic problem that needs to be resolved now: how to deal with scientifically proven carbon sinks in the future with this climate agreement. The Commission is working on it, but unfortunately the problem is that this boreal coniferous forest zone in the European Union is in a large minority and is then easily prepared on the basis of the culture of those southern and central European countries. This is what we need to watch now, and that is where this government will certainly do its utmost.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u44	Madam President! It is clear that the Paris Agreement is a revolutionary and historic agreement, and a big, big thank-you, of course, belongs to Minister Tiilikainen, which is quite obvious. I must say to the Greens and to Mr Niinistö that, from the outset, the Durban agreement was far from good, but fortunately, there was a welcome — it was all right, thanks to you — at European level. However, even then it was tied to elements which, in practice, did not bring much to us financially, but in principle it did. And this, what Mrs Anttila said above: We are going far too far in line with the principles of that southern hemisphere in terms of deforestation, in terms of rainforests. This boreal zone is quite different, and that's why these things that are based on natural sinks... And by the way, we got news for today: the Greens support, so I understood, the natural sink. I have not seen this support before, but I am glad that this has happened now. This is a major change of direction, and I welcome this with great pleasure that this has happened, because it is the only way to guarantee genuine climate effects and to reduce and reduce CO2 emissions. That is a good thing, and that is exactly what needs to be done. And here Finland still has a big job to get the Commission's head to turn around, that it is not a political sink, but that there will be a genuine, real natural sink. I'm sure that's what we all want here. And as far as food production is concerned, President, it is clear that we are in a privileged position here in terms of food production, because we have enough water, we are able to use more crops, we may not get more than hundreds a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u45	Mr President! It is certain that things are going to get pretty mixed up with the general public when we start talking about these different concepts, but I say to Mrs Lehä that the Greens want to emphasise the sustainable use of forests that we have room for forest exploitation in Finland. We can even increase annual harvests, and we can increase sinks at the same time, but we need to take into account the whole scientific view of how biodiversity, forest growth and carbon sinks of forests can be maintained as well as possible in the short and long term. Then it will be that if more wood is cut from the forests, then it will have to be cut in such a way that, in terms of forest regeneration, there will be a sustainable abandonment of the growth base and not all humus will be taken out. I just want to say that it is possible to increase fellings in Finland in a sustainable way, but it requires good planning, and it is important that we all work together to do so. It is genuinely scientifically demonstrable that we can both strengthen biodiversity and exploit forests
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u46	Madam Speaker! This is all right, this is the same line the centre has always been, so that is, in a sustainable way and based on natural sciences, we use these renewable resources. It must always be remembered that, in addition to being a diversity and caring for it, the forest is always a carbon sink and a carbon stock, it is both. There will be a phase where nothing happens in the wood in practice other than storage, and it is good that it will then be used, for example, for construction or other purposes. That is right, so that we get new growth, which then binds carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, and that it acts as a genuine sinkhole. In other words, there are very great opportunities here to significantly increase felling and to do so in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u47	Mr President! Just such an addition to this very good debate and to a good consensus that we have a significant increase in the number of forests that can even be cut down in a sustainable way. So that is what we often forget here, that the growth of forests is many ten million cubic metres greater than it is harvesting every year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u49	Mr President! It is very good that the Paris Agreement has been negotiated so well in our deliberations that all parties have agreed on it in the Committee on the Environment. Thank you, Minister. To the brick block for its work on reaching an agreement, and also to the fact that the climate agreement now recognises the importance of forests and the importance of good forest management. And, as the Minister has said here today, in recognising the role of forests, we must now get the EU on the same page as this Paris agreement, away from the trenches of Kyoto. Finland’s emission reduction potential is strongly based on growing and diverse wood use, and the accounting and accounting rules for forests in the EU as a whole must be designed and implemented in such a way that the rules are fair and encourage the maintenance of carbon sinks of forests, but do not unduly restrict sustainable forestry or the operating conditions of the bioenergy and wood products industries. The planned regulatory action must also be clearly and simply feasible. And like the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I believe that it is necessary to make decisions on the EU LULUCF sector and burden sharing in such a way that Finland's ambitious bioeconomy objectives are made possible and the system encourages sustainable forest growth and regeneration. By improving the growth and management of forests, we can at the same time increase the use of wood and wood products and increase the carbon stocks of forests, just as Mrs Anttila has just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u50	Mr President! However, when Mrs Leppä criticises the decision of the Durban Conference on Climate Change, I would like to remind you that the decision taken in Durban in 2011 started the negotiations which then came to an end in the Paris Agreement. Just as I warmly wish to thank you, and still, Minister, His role in the negotiations for the Paris Agreement, and just like that, the then Minister Niinistö deserves thanks for the breakthrough in Durban in 2011 or Sirpa Pietikäinen, then Minister for the Environment of the Aho Government, for his time in drafting the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, on which this entire international climate policy is based. But on forests: I would now like to continue working on this natural sink. If one year a country’s forests absorb one million tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, it is a natural sink, but it is a natural sink if only half a million tons or one tonne are bound. It is still a sinkhole in the scientific sense, but one of the natural sciences is that it has decreased, and that is bad for the climate. We should also take this issue seriously when discussing these sinkholes in climate policy. When reference has been made here to the fact that tropical forests and boreal forests are quite different, their carbon sequestration from a climate point of view is not different. So, here too, it would be good to remember the old code of ethics: do to others as they hope to do to yourself or act in the way you would like others to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u51	Madam President! It has been extremely interesting to follow up the debate, and I think that some of the speeches have, I might say, been somewhat misdirected, knowingly or even unwittingly. A few things need to be kept in mind all the time. First of all, this carbon sink thing. There is no doubt that Finland’s forests are carbon sinks: over 100 million motors of carbon are committed to a new tree in a year with the connection. Then Mr Hassi just suggested that if the forest is being cut, it will reduce its throat. That's not the case. That is not true, Mr Hassi. If there were 105 million mots and Finland decided — to open up the market and even get new products on the market — that instead of the current 65 million mots, we would beat 85 million mots or 20 million mots more than at present, this year, it would mean not a reduction in forest growth, Mr Hassi, but an increase in forest growth. Here's where your logic goes into the woods to swing. Why do you not recognize the scientific facts? This is conscious mismanagement of what you are doing in those turbulent and squares and scaring people. All that's missing is you sticking a clown mask on your head and then it's a game after that. What is it that you do not recognize the facts? With fifty answers, that fact does not change anything. If the forests are managed better, they will grow better, and you will not be able to change this with a beautiful political rhetoric, even if you spend the next 30 years speaking here. When will you acknowledge this fact? I hope one day. Second thing, deforestation. After all, there is no deforestation in Finland. It's true that when you come here A block of flats is built next to the park in Helsinki or some other locality, where some forest land is lost, but deforestation is not possible on the forestry side. Finnish law requires that the trails of the renovation fellings be handled. If not, the Forest Centre will take the initiative and have the aftercare done at the expense of the forest owner, and if the forest owner does not pay for it, the bill will then go to the enforcement office. So we'll do the job, and the forest owner won't get away with it. So even this way, you can't claim that we have deforestation. I wish one day you'd face up to the facts. If, in due course, Juho Kusti Paasikivi said that the beginning of all wisdom is recognition of the facts, I would like you, Mr Hassi and your fellow spirit, to acknowledge this fact. For it is a miracle, and I am absolutely amazed that basic things like this are not recognized as true. After all, in the world, man is a master in turning things upside down and squeezing as his own interests require, but the truth does not change at all. Carbon sinks and carbon stocks are always preserved in this country, and we can make them even better: For example, these new laws, the new proposals on the European Union, this new Paris Treaty, which is a mixed agreement, are being implemented wisely. Then come these sustainability criteria for renewable energy, which are of course important, and they must then be put in such a condition that Finnish wood can be used, because that will reduce the use of fossil fuels. When you cut up fiberwood from the forest and bring it to a pulp mill, you pick up the fibres first, you make paper, you make viscose from them, you make them into cardboard, you make them from them, you make pine oil and other chemistry, you make it composite and you make it what you want, and you get it out of it, that waste broth, that black goon, you burn out of them in a pot, and you use 100% of the chemical composition of the whole tree. Nothing goes missing, not even the shell. The only thing that, in a way, is wasted on wood being cut out of the forest is the sawdust flying from the steel of a multipurpose machine that remains in the forest, but it is not wasted either, because it enriches nature and then something new is born there. Once again, when it is said that the Finnish forest environment is impoverished, it is not impoverished. Never in the history of Finland have there been more decay trees made in Finnish forests than are now being made. Back in the day, when the loggers cut down the forests by thinning, they only cut down the tree that was supposed to be taken, and the branches and other things were left in the forest, except for the useful trunk and the parts of the trunk were taken to the side of the road. But now, when a multipurpose machine goes into the forest, wood that remains in the forest to die and which in time would have remained there will be grinded under the tents alone. Thus, more and more wood is left in the forests, measured in blame per hectare. This, too, is a cold fact. I would like you to face up to these facts one day. I have only 25 years of experience in this field, and I believe that I know something about it — I do not profess to be the best expert, but say that a reasonable experience over a period of 25 years is. Finally, Madam President, on this second domestic resource, peat: Now that these sustainability criteria are being created and we have just heard that even hundreds of millions of fines are going to be imposed on Finnish peat and wood-based power plants when these new restrictions are being imposed on the European Union because of the climate, I would like to see the facts noted here too. After all, it is inconceivable that those who burn brown coal and coal get away with it and power plants operating with domestic raw materials, which do not carry much of the goods in the surrounding area — which also saves fossil fuels when transport costs are low — are on the list of those who are being punished in Finland. In this regard, the Finnish lobby will go into the forest so that a bang will take place. In fact, I am jealous of the Swedes who have done an excellent job, and we here in Finland are wonderfully twisting fingers and things in knots by the way that I at least have to read every once in a while Kullervo Kuusela's forest textbook, that is, is it really so that the tree grows up and the roots down — when you listen to this conversation, you sometimes wonder whether it is true anymore? Ladies and gentlemen, since we have a constitution that requires us to respect the truth and justice in the work of a Member of Parliament, I would like this to be remembered when we talk about these sinks, because that science does not disappear from this world, even if this is where I am going to go for coffee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u52	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen has obviously not listened to what I was saying, or at least did not understand, judging by the way he interpreted my speech. I would like Mr Hoskonen to look at, for example, the Finnish climate panel, which is a panel of top scientists, which evaluates Finland's climate policy on a scientific basis, in its report, which states that a significant increase in forest felling does not transform Finland's forests from sink to a source of emissions, but it does reduce the sink, which is also a significant matter for the climate. The climate panel also notes that the greater the number of wood products that remain carbon in them, such as buildings and wood products, is better. That is quite different from burning forest-based material immediately into the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u53	Madam President! Here again we came to the old truth that the truth can be twisted into the position of the desire to serve one’s own purposes. The cold fact is that when Finland’s forests are cut, the tree comes to the side of the road, then the remaining forest grows more than the mots, and even mathematically, this tree stock grows. After the war, when Finland lost 10 per cent of its surface area in that big land match, we had a forest growth of about 50 million mots a year. We have been beaten for decades since then, and we are living in 2016, and next year Finland will celebrate its 100-year independence – in about half of the time we have doubled the growth of forests and the stock of wood, multiplied the wood stock and doubled the growth fairly. Are you still trying to tell me that we have fewer throats? I am tired of this kind of mathematics, Mr President, but perhaps I have not finished my course in mathematics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u55	Madam President! The climate panel also recognizes that in the long run the carbon stock will increase, no matter how it is taken from there. It may be momentarily and at that very point in decline, but, given the whole, our forests are more and more carbon-binding. In fact, the growth of our forests, of which Mr Hoskonen also spoke, has been so great that in the last 60 years 1000 million cubic metres have been left unused, and that is why if our forests now grow its 105 million cubic metres a year and 65 million of them are beaten, there is certainly plenty of room for growth there. Here we go now to this LULUCF side, to land use change side. The differences in those natural science-based models in Finland relate to the classification of land. It is quite incomprehensible that I too have met many times, for example, the loss of forests due, for example, to the increase in arable land. When we got the statistics, the fields haven't grown. It is exactly as Mr Hoskonen said, it is mainly construction that is going to be the removal of the forest area, but it is, of course, often replaced by other forest growth. It is quite incomprehensible that claims of this kind, which are not based on anything, should come to light. The same EU requires us to have precise area data in the fields, and the fields do not grow, and then the same bodies argue that, for example, the field is one of the major reasons why we have deforestation. I would therefore like this type of research to be opened up more and more in general and to be used for this type of research.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u56	Madam President! Indeed, we have a lot of afforested fields after the early '70s and still likes field throws are afforested, and in relation to what field is introduced, it is probably not as representative Kalmari just said that less comes through deforestation for us. Representative Niinistö went away, but he mentioned this sort of thing that is good when there are deeds and fewer speeches, but this must have been both. When the Greens got into the government — we were just talking about a long-term policy — so immediately, during the last government, the support for the chip was calculated and the tax on peat was raised and we got quite a bunch of coals behind many cities and municipal heating plants, both in Jyväskylä, Seinäjoki, Lahti and elsewhere. Are these the measures then: want more coal with such measures? Fortunately, the present government came and fixed this and sought direction. But this is going to take a long time before this kind of sensitive, talk about a sensitive environment like the market, for example, the application market... That's when a lot of pick-ups knocked out the gloves. Now there are new entrepreneurs or new machines and equipment. So I would look at that long-term, and it should be based both on science and on long-term economic efforts. So, long-term, I'm still looking for this. As a loather of peat, I do not fully understand the green. We currently have more peat every year than we use it. I understand these water problems and their other problems, but they can and have been resolved. I see that when the world is still fossil, we use the last fossil, domestic peat, rather than coal, and then look at other alternatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u57	Madam President! The forest stock of Finland has grown for 100 years, all the time. Although fellings have also increased, forest growth has also increased, thanks to good forest management. If the forests had not been managed, we would still be in a situation where we were at the end of the second century when the forests had been used but had not been reformed. There's a big difference between the Southern Hemisphere and the Northern Hemisphere. As many colleagues here have said, long-term sustainability is a big issue in carbon sinks, it is a big issue in forestry, and Finland has the best references in the world — the best references in the world. For 100 years we have made sure that the forests have grown. That is how carbon sinks have grown, how carbon stocks have grown, and that is how we receive a great deal of the emissions from the upper worlds that others cause. And we know that the forest is used and has zero emissions, as it should be, because it is the same CO2 that has always been around here — over and over again. It does not reproduce or decrease, it rotates. Only what comes from fossils is more for us. Finally, Mr President, I must say that quite a lot of the capitals and conurbations of the provinces have also gone into the use of renewable energies to a very large extent. Yes, this is something that we want to see happening in Helsinki as well. In other words, Helsinki must also, and the entire Helsinki Metropolitan Area, participate more firmly in climate change projects and remove its use of coal now and finally. Good ideas were heard here, and hopefully these will come true, so that they will take the same line as what has already happened in the rest of Finland almost everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u58	Mr President! In this debate, I have not heard anyone deny the fact that the number of Finnish forests has increased, that Finnish forests are a significant carbon sink. But the disagreement about the way carbon sinks are calculated in the EU, for example, concerns what will happen to forests in the future, whether the carbon sink of forests will decrease in the future or not, and I very much hope that at least it will not decrease significantly. With regard to peat, I would say that peat, just like coal, is a fossil fuel, is equivalent to coal, in fact, a little worse because peat also contains moisture, so that per unit of useful energy it becomes more carbon dioxide than coal. Representative Eestilä has already left, he asked about Helsinki's energy solution. I am not a municipal politician from Helsinki, but I am an electrical power man from my education and have been interested in following Helsinki's energy solution. After all, our combined heat and power production has been a good thing for decades and a progressive thing compared to the rest of the world, but the world is still moving forward. It cannot be assumed that when fossil fuels are to be abandoned in the world in a few decades, combined heat and power would be an exception in Finland. Helsingin Energia's website tells us that in the solution decided by the City Council of Helsinki when one coal power plant is closed — and hopefully more later — coal will be replaced by energy efficiency and decentralised energy production. It is precisely the kind of solutions and know-how that we can take to other parts of the world. There is a need for them all over the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u59	Mr President! I've been listening with interest. This has been a very valuable debate. To begin with, I would say to Mr Hassi that peat is a renewable, really slow natural resource in Finland compared to coal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u62	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 5/2016, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u63	Mr President! Ratification of the ILO agreement is certainly a good thing, but the committee's hearings made it clear that our current national legislation is unclear and therefore does not meet the conditions of the agreement. As a result, not all aid seekers will be identified and will not be covered by the aid system, and people will even have to be removed from the aid system because of these ambiguities. Since these issues are quite clearly known, it is no longer enough to follow up the matter, as the committee's draft statement says, but to take concrete measures. I therefore propose that Parliament adopt a statement of objection, which reads: 'The Parliament shall require that, before the ratification of the Protocol to the Treaty on Compulsory Labour is completed, the conditions of Article 3 of the Protocol are met by national law.' Mr President! We do not think it is a good practice to ratify an agreement that cannot be implemented by its own legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u64	Madam President! I myself wanted to speak because human rights issues of this kind are being dealt with in the Council of Europe, and sometimes I am agonized by the fact that, in some ways, such recommendations are made quite easily at international level, which are not then transposed into legislation in the various countries. That is why I think it is very good that this legislation is now coming into force. Of course, if there are problems, then things can be clarified, but the most important thing is that it is implemented in different countries. In fact, the committee had tabled a statement on this very point raised by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen in the sense that it is being followed that this legislation is now working.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u65	Mr President! I support Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's motion. The committee heard very well those who in this country know something about forced labour and trafficking in human beings and the interface between them. It is very difficult to imagine what additional information monitoring could produce that would facilitate decision-making and evaluation as to whether our legislation is currently inadequate or not. Traditionally, Finland has assumed that ratification will take place at a time when the country's affairs have been put in order to fulfil their obligations under the international agreement, and I do not think there is any reason why we should not continue this tradition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u66	Madam President! I myself am in the majority that gave the opinion of this committee and, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said, there were some unclear points. But that is something I disagree with when it is said that this would not be possible to ratify. The TEM Government Counsellor Liisa Heinonen gave a response to these statements, and then came again as a statement that no obstacle was seen there than that raised in this objection. The committee wanted this addition to be added that if anything is found later, then the situation will be monitored. It could have been so that it is stated that everything is all right here, but if there are even small things like duubies about the matter, then it should be followed and then changed it to the legislation, if that is the case. But this is by no means quite as clear as it is implied here. I also believe that TEM has expertise, and if there is also a statement by an official about the regulations, then the majority of the committee believes that this too has weight. That I can't sign all this, that we knowingly would have ignored things like this. And it is good to note that this amendment would include the fact that the Treaty cannot be ratified at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u67	Mr President! The question is that these problems are real and do not improve by following them. We in the committee had a large number of experts who told us about these problems, and they were people who work on this phenomenon every day and all the time. In other words, I think that they are the experts we have to trust, and that is why this follow-up on this issue is already pointless, because we know that these problems exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u68	Mr President! In order not to be confused, the representatives of the ministries supported the legislation as originally proposed by the government to us, but all the other experts — those who have substance in this matter, who either normally help victims of trafficking in human beings in their daily lives, investigate trafficking in human beings or are familiar from a legal point of view with human trafficking legislation and its challenges — agreed that our current legislation and the use of the definition of forced labour contained therein are not sufficient to cover the obligations that we are required to ratify the protocol in question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u69	Mr President! I would also like to continue this debate because, in principle, it was seen here that, before this can be ratified, this must address all these problems, which, however, were very strongly raised in the committee. We remember how the disability pact was ratified and reported — most recently in Finland. However, when we consider what kind of country we are, this was the same thing: only then can we ratify, when we are sure that we will be able to implement all those points. This is also a matter of principle, because the experts in the committee very strongly pointed out that there are some of these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u70	Madam President! We had this debate last week quite a bit. I am not an expert in the ministry and I am not playing such a game at all, but I would like to say that we have a great deal of government proposals in Parliament and, in committee, after receiving expert opinions, the ministry may say that there is a point here that we have not noticed, so we too believe that it could be changed, for example, in this way or in this way. I do not want to think that our officials are so locked up and think that we need to get this through and refuse to see anything else. This was the view of the committee, however, so that this is by no means as unambiguous as the objection has been made, and if anything comes up, then of course that will be changed. But I have nothing more to add to this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u71	Mr President! I would also like to stress that there are quite the right people behind our decisions, and how many years we are delaying a process, and there are always those individuals who are left without protection, who are left without help in forced labour or in such circumstances. That is why these things are very important. But this particular issue is not only a question of protection for the victims of forced labour and the sanctions that are involved; it is also a question of what is our general approach, our general practice of ratification. And, yes, we have quite a few warning examples, especially from southern Europe, that the name should be put on any paper, then it is decided that things should sometimes be put in order, but they may hang there for decades. That is why I am so strongly in favour of this traditional system of ours, which first sets things straight and then ratifys it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u72	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u73	Mr President! The government's proposal that travelling to commit terrorist acts should be punishable is, of course, a welcome, good and necessary amendment. One must wonder why such a thing has never been done before, which is only now to be addressed. What is central to this is that when a criminal offence is committed, the police should then be given the means to intervene and impose coercive measures on suspects of such an act. This is the right message: travelling for terrorist purposes is unacceptable and it is punishable. But I have some doubts as to whether, on the basis of this penalty scale, this is only going to go to the stage of the message, because if fines can be imposed for that act, then my fear is that the courts may very easily judge those fines and leave prison sentences uncondemned and that the case-law becomes that only fines are being imposed, which is certainly not the intention of the legislator, because these are serious acts. But, Mr President, this is a good start to the path that should also be pursued in the examination of intelligence legislation. This committee report states that there are some borderline cases and unclear lines of action in these acts, and it is important that those who exploit these borderline cases and lines of action should not in future be allowed to avoid the hand of the law, that is, the drinks for the planning of the intelligence law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u74	Mr President! I would like to thank the government, and in particular the Minister of Justice, Mr Lindström, for this bill, which makes travel for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence punishable and also supplements the legislation on the financing of terrorism by penalising the financing of a travel crime as a financing of terrorism. As is clear from this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, it has unanimously proposed the adoption of the draft law without amendment. Mr President! In view of the growing threat of terrorism both in Europe and in the rest of the world, the government's proposal is very much to be welcomed, and the Committee on Administrative Affairs has also considered, in its opinion, that, for the overall benefit of society, it is quite appropriate to target the efforts of the authorities to eradicate terrorism in the prevention of crime. Mr President! This report by the Committee on Legal Affairs also states that the extension of the travel offence to war crimes has not arisen during the preparatory phase of the law. The committee's position has rightly been that the present extension of the penal provision to war crimes, for example, is not possible without an appropriate legislative process. It would therefore be very desirable for travel for the purpose of committing war crimes to be punishable at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u75	Madam President! This government proposal, which has now taken the form of a report, is extremely good and worthy of support. In the fight against terrorism, it is absolutely essential that the Finnish authorities have the same tools at their disposal as in the investigation of crimes, and it is good that such acts, such as travelling to or committing terrorist acts in another country, can be criminalised and, more or less, in the same way as in other European countries, because in these matters Finland should not remain an island where there is an environment for such acts to be made easier. We must strive to put the laws in place in this Parliament to ensure that the prevention and punishment of such gross acts are internationally comparable. Now that, apparently, at the end of this year, the work of the working group on the means that the protection police can use to obtain information will be completed, the change in this future legislation must also be at the level of protection police and information authorities in other countries of the European Union, so that these serious crimes can be combated, because Finland alone will not be able to do anything, but we must work with the European Union and also in a larger area internationally, so that, for example, the movements of money coming into terrorist offences can be located and money traffic blocked. There's no other way. Another way is, of course, when there is a great deal of distress and pain and injustice in the world, that we must of course put as much effort into fighting this injustice and injustice as possible and give those people the opportunity to live in their own countries so that we do not have to go around the world or create situations like this which then provoke serious crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u76	Madam President! As the world changes and distances become shorter and shorter, it is of course important that our legislation remains up-to-date. We have found that many conflicts that may seem far away to us may eventually touch Finland very close. Where Finland has received some questionable credit, if you look at the number of foreign fighters going to Syria, for example, we are some kind of power of terrorism in proportion to the population. Compared to Europeans, we have left a frightening number of foreign fighters to fight in Syria to a large extent against the ISIS ranks or other very vague and sentencing forces. It is important that, when we have such a phenomenon, our authorities also have the tools to intervene and criminal law to identify and punish such crimes. Of course, the bigger question arises here, too, that when a lot of people come to us for a genuine need to escape in search of safety and shelter, where we have failed, for example, when second generation immigrants may then return to the land of their fathers to fight possibly in the ranks of troops that have sown the horror in whose fear some of the people come here. This is a good and up-to-date change in our legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u77	Madam President! I myself would like to praise this legislation. It's a good thing we did this. We should not be too naive about whether or not to leave us as foreign fighters. I must say that I myself was surprised to see the police report on this issue on TV that we too have high figures in these foreign fighters. What has just been said about the success of our integration is also significant, because I believe that unless we break the cycle of revenge, peace, for example, in the Middle East, can never come. In fact, it has been one of the keys to Finland's success that the generations that follow us were taught not to revenge and bitterness but to look forward. However, the proposals on forward-looking legislation that have been made here are also very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u78	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u79	Mr President! Borrowing from higher education libraries has been a long-term objective of the Committee on Culture. At the moment, the Copyright Act only allows lending compensation for lending from public libraries in municipalities. In this way, authors publishing teaching and research literature, for example, have been excluded from quote payments. The reform will bring the amount of compensation to a general Nordic level. The 2017 budget provides for an increase in the amount of loan compensation to EUR 15.6 million, which is EUR 6.3 million more than in 2016. The extension of the lending compensation is based on a proposal from the parliamentary working party. In the spring of 2015, it presented a joint declaration that quotes from educational and research libraries should be included in the quote fee. The proposal therefore has broad acceptance from the parties. The reform facilitates the everyday lives of scarcely accessible information writers. The reform also ensures the quality of Finnish teaching and research literature and that Finland does not have to rely solely on foreign teaching and research literature. By improving the working opportunities of authors, the legal change will also benefit Finnish publishers, translators, printers, distributors, bookstores and libraries. At best, it also has employment effects. Borrowing payments started in 2007 in Finland, and in the Nordic countries they have been paid for decades, so there was a lot of catching up. A parliamentary group was set up for this during the last term of government, and I was also involved in it. This government increased compensation even though we are in a difficult financial situation. That is great, because now we are starting to be at Nordic level in terms of lending fees, and really, when the teaching books were still included and the amount is quite large, it means that the quote payments for authors in every respect will rise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u80	Madam President! I too would like to express my thanks for the fact that this bill is now in this Chamber. During the last term, I was involved in the parliamentary working group mentioned by Mrs Elomaa. Indeed, the proposal of our working group was unanimous. We suggested that in Finland loan compensation would be raised to the Nordic level, and we also suggested that in the future loan compensation would also be obtained from information books and works in university libraries. I am very pleased that during this term of government, even though we have seen cuts in the local government economy and culture, for example, this long-awaited increase in the level of quote payments by authors towards the Nordic level will finally come about, you can say, after long fighting and after long work. I would like to thank the representatives who, like me, were in that working group, and I am really glad that we tabled a unanimous motion and that is what will happen now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u81	Madam President! The place of thanks is where thanks are due, and it is thanks now to the fact that this government has presented this proposal and is fulfilling this long-term objective. In the background, as we have seen here, there has been a parliamentary group, but we must remember that this is a much longer process. For years we have received a group of authors who have wanted reform, that quote payments should gradually be brought to the Nordic level, and that information writers should also be eligible for quote payments. Now this long march, the long work is in a good decision, and it is thanks to the government that it has now brought this proposal to the House, but also to all those who have been working on this for authors and literature over the years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u82	Mr President! It is indeed nice that, in these tough times, good things are also brought up here in the administrative sector of the Committee on Education and Culture or in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. It is particularly nice that, with this amendment of the law, authors of books and textbooks are now also placed on an equal footing with authors of other types of literature. In fact, there has been a very serious problem in the past when authors of works borrowed from libraries, for example, have not received this library allowance, and it is now really great that this is happening. This is a great civilization, you could say. Indeed, thank you to the government, but also to the previous governments that have improved the loan compensation. And thanks are also due to a number of Committees of Education in the past, since we have raised this issue in committee in many years, for example, in relation to these authors. It's a great day today when we get to deal with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u83	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u84	Mr President! This government proposal allows for the suspension of the artist grant period and the transfer of the grant period. The aim of the amendment is to improve the income of artists. After the change, the artist has the opportunity to take up the corresponding short-term employment relationship during the grant period. Long-term work planning will also be easier when a short-term full-time employment relationship does not have to be refused in fear of losing a grant. The artist’s career is often interrupted, and many people cannot support themselves or their families simply by doing independent art. This is why it is also important to make it possible to accept employment relationships in the middle of grant periods. In the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Public Health and Consumer Policy, it was considered important that this change should not lead to a significant fall in the number of grants awarded each year. It would also be important to make it possible to redistribute the grant in situations where, for example, the granter has permanently abandoned the grant. The committee also stresses in its report that restrictions on the duration of the grant period and employment will be further reduced and the possibilities for artists to take up work whenever they are available will be made more flexible. This is very welcome and I hope that the amendment of the law will improve the livelihood of artists. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u85	Mr President! This proposal is indeed a good one in that it encourages grant recipients to accept even short-term employment during the grant period and could therefore be suspended. This is a very welcome reform, because it is good that in the art sector too, for example, opportunities for different forms of enterprise will then be made possible in this way. However, in the future, the system should be further developed in such a way that these restrictions on the duration of employment and the grant period can then be relaxed and made more flexible in such a way as to further improve the opportunities for artists to take up work whenever they are available.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u86	Madam President! This is a pretty good session for creative workers. This, too, is a good government proposal. After the 2007 elections, I myself was negotiating a promise to the Government Programme that the grant recipients would be subject to a social security law, and at that time the law, which was adopted pretty soon, left some shortcomings, one of which is to be corrected today, that is to say, this possibility of suspending the grant because of the temporary work. I hope that in the future the remaining shortcomings will be eliminated, which means that short scholarships of less than three months will not accumulate social security, and it would be very important for grants to be chained in such a way that all the work done will be of equal value and all the work done will be of equal value to social protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u87	Mr President! In such a general way, it can be said that the kind of development in which culture is moving forward and these actions are progressing is always a positive and good thing — so here too. I would like, President, to make a general point about this very law and the previous law in that these are important steps. This quotation fee, which was here in the debate, for example, is the result of years of work, and I am very pleased that we have now made progress so that, during the year of independence, this compensation paid to artists is at the right level. This is the last season we doubled this amount of money, and now we're gonna finish the job, and that's good. But, on the whole, I hope, Mr President, that this government will take these cultural issues very seriously. However, we have seen that even though culture is a leading project — and it is in itself a positive one — there are so many problems, such as those of museums, orchestras, theatres and so on. And that is why I hope that this House will share the spirit that we would like to see in the future that, because the funding of culture from the entire state budget is very small, we will never achieve good by cutting it down, quite the contrary. That is why this promotion of culture and intellectual well-being, as a whole, is very important, as are the performances that take account of the role of artists, and there is still a lot to be done, as has been said here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u88	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u89	Madam President! First of all, it must be said that the extension of the transitional rule on the obligation to incorporated occupational health care in municipal buildings for a further two years is to be welcomed and a good law. This matter has already been dealt with in the last period and, in that sense, it must be said that there have now been some changes and different views in relation to the last period. But all in all, this is a good performance. This issue relates to the reform of social welfare and health care, and, at the moment, we are also dealing with the procurement law in Parliament, which is also the subject of the procurement law. And now that there are two ministers here, I cannot fail to say that many municipalities and hospital districts have developed comprehensive occupational health care, and now the great concern is that this comprehensive occupational health care system is being broken down specifically by the public sector, i.e. produced by municipalities and joint municipal authorities. In practice, this means that preventive occupational health care can be produced in the public sector, but medical care must be incorporated, that is to say, this comprehensive development of occupational health care will become more difficult. In this respect, the good development work that is now being done in various parts of Finland will change. It will also lead to inequalities in public health care in relation to private occupational health care. Now I would like to see the relevant ministers take a stand, a view on this issue, which is a very important issue for occupational health care as a whole. It has nothing to do with this, but it very much touches on this proposal, which we are now debating.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u90	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal under discussion is part of the social reform process, which enables this state of affairs to continue until the entry into force of the social welfare reform, so that the municipalities do not have to re-incorporate that occupational health care for these last two years — indeed, it certainly makes sense in itself. However, as Mr Kiljunen said there, I too have great concerns about what will happen to municipal occupational health care during the wars and, on the other hand, the procurement law before Parliament also leaves some serious questions as to what will happen to the municipal occupational health care system in the future. I therefore hope that the ministers will be able to comment on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u91	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u92	Madam President! Now there are issues in the referral debate and, of course, assume that this presentation of the law will take place by the ministers, and that is why this debate is a little confusing at the moment. First of all, however, it must be noted that the training allowance for specialist medical and dental training is extended to universities, and this is in itself a welcome and very good reform. Education is now statutory for universities, and the Ministry should allocate funding to it. Now, of course, this has been the case with opinions from various quarters, more than 80 opinions have been received, and it has been welcomed that this provides a better opportunity to develop and coordinate specialisation training, its content and quality, which is then a positive thing, and to provide better opportunities to steer the specific and regional needs-based balance of education and training, which would improve regional access to services. The duration of training would thus also be an opportunity to shorten, and in this respect this is a positive thing. However, it has now also been a matter of concern that this funding in this respect has not been sufficiently allocated and, above all, to universities, and universities have felt that, since this has become a statutory task for them and because it is not being adequately funded, how can they carry out the tasks and objectives set out in this legislation? Among other things, the opinions of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the universities have stated that funding should correspond to real costs, as the basic funding received by universities should not be used to finance specialisation training. Now there are expert ministers here. I would like your comments on these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u93	Madam President! This government proposal is a welcome and good reform. The proposal proposes to amend the provisions on the payment of the State's education allowance so that in future, the State's remuneration for specialist and specialised dental training will also be paid to universities. It is proposed that a new section on the reimbursement of the training allowance to the university be added to the law and that the university which organises specialist and specialised dental training should be compensated for the costs of the training by state funds. This change would give universities a better opportunity to develop and coordinate the content and quality of specialisation training. This would be reflected, as has already been mentioned here, in improving the quality of education and as more skilled specialists and specialised dentists, and the duration of training would also be possible to shorten from the present 8-10 years closer to the target period of between 5 and 6 years from becoming a doctor or dentist. I think this is a good thing, and I also think it supports the government's top project 3, which is one of the ideas of making study paths more flexible and speeding up the transition to work. I believe that there is a good, very concrete opportunity here to make progress on this key project. We can get professionals to work there, because we have a great shortage of doctors, and we also need specialist dentists in Finland to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u94	Mr President! Indeed, the training allowance for specialist and specialised dentistry training will be extended to universities, and in this way the universities would have better opportunities to develop and coordinate the content and quality of education and then better opportunities to direct the special and regional needs-based balance of education, which would then also improve the regional balance of services. The unfortunate thing is that these costs, estimated by universities, cannot be fully reimbursed, but only about half of them, and this is, of course, a terrible pity in the sense that, when the reform of social security is coming and freedom of choice, this training can then weaken the position of the providers of the services involved in it in a competitive market, if the compensation for this organisation of education is not at an adequate level, and I would see that this is a very big problem. In my opinion, such research, development and education issues have not been considered enough in the context of social services. It would be good, therefore, to draw greater attention to this in the preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u95	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u96	Madam President! This proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the Health Insurance Act, the Occupational Accidents and Occupational Diseases Act and the Unemployment Protection Act on the calculation of daily allowance. The proposed changes relate to the package agreed in the competitiveness agreement concluded by the central labour market organisations. It is proposed to amend the provisions on the calculation of daily allowance benefits so that the increases proposed in the competitiveness agreement for the employee's pension insurance contribution, the employee's unemployment insurance contribution and the sickness insurance daily allowance contribution do not affect the amount of daily allowance benefits. If the articles were not amended, the level of daily allowances would be reduced by a proportion equivalent to the increase in employee contributions due to the so-called percentage reduction. In spite of the increases in the above-mentioned employee contributions, the level of daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act, the Occupational Accidents and Occupational Diseases Act and the Unemployment Protection Act will thus remain unchanged. The proposal has no economic impact on the state and the changes do not affect employers' or employees' contributions either. In addition, the proposal proposes to revise the provisions on the reporting of accidents at work and occupational diseases by farmers, so that both the sickness allowance and the daily allowance due to accidents at work are the same. These laws are intended to enter into force on the 1st century. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u97	Madam President! This law is part of the competitiveness agreement that makes Finland more competitive internationally. It is a good thing that the workers met in the negotiations and realise that the cost of carrying out the work must be reduced, and then the State, for its part, came up against the fact that the tax table was reduced to everyone and those for whom this reduction could not be made, was compensated for by other reliefs of more than EUR 60 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u98	Madam President! The proposal is indeed related to the grievances and proposes to amend the Health Insurance Act, the Occupational Accidents and Occupational Diseases Act and the Unemployment Protection Act. These proposed changes have no economic impact on the state. The changes would also have no impact on employers' or employees' contributions. The proposal is linked to the Government's proposal before Parliament to amend occupational pension laws and certain other laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u99	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. Then we move on to the debate, where Minister Mattila was the first and then Minister Vehviläinen was the first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u100	Madam President! This presentation will carry out the so-called first phase of the basic income experiment. The primary objective of the basic income test to be launched is to promote employment. The aim of the experiment is to get an answer based on a follow-up study as to whether basic income contributes to employment. The target group for the basic income test does not include groups whose objective is not to improve the employment situation with basic income, such as those on old-age pensions. The target group of basic income would be beneficiaries of unemployment benefits, basic daily allowance and labour market support paid by the Social Insurance Institution. An experimental group of 2,000 would be picked from them by random sampling. In assessing the impact of basic income, the pilot group would be compared to the control group consisting of those in the target group who do not receive basic income. The basic income would be paid by the Social Insurance Institution. The level of basic income is set at EUR 560 per month and would be tax-free for its recipient. This corresponds to the current net level of labour market support and basic daily allowance. In the first phase of the basic income experiment, it has been necessary to reconcile basic income with various other benefits. This task has been of considerable importance. Furthermore, in order to enable the experiment to begin with the planned timetable, it has not been possible to make changes to the tax system within such a short period of time. Consequently, basic income is presented as a non-taxable benefit. The research group on basic income will continue to work and will submit its final report next month. The Government will then decide on the continuation of the experiment, the so-called second phase, which could be started from the beginning of 2018. In this context, it will be possible to examine, inter alia, the various tax solutions which have not been possible in the context of the first phase of this tight-track experiment. The proposal to start a basic income experiment is unique even at international level. The experiment will not only provide valuable evidence of basic income and its impact, but also information on the development of our fragmented social security system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u101	Minister Vehviläinen. That's three minutes, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u102	Mr President! I will take this floor briefly as the Minister responsible for experimental culture, and first of all I would like to say that yesterday, at the Government's strategy session, we had some debate on these experiments and, in this context, on the level of ambition that the government has for the experiment as a whole. We considered within the government that, in particular, the experiments mentioned here in the Government Programme, so to speak, as strategic experiments, must be accompanied by a research approach which is in this very basic income experiment in general. I would also like to say that this basic income experiment is, of course, the most demanding of all these government experiments. Other experiments that have been written in the Government Programme and are being launched and will be launched include the service voucher experiment, which is also related to the forwarding of these bogs on its schedule in 2019. There are also language experiments and then a service initiative experiment, and that is only in its initial stages, but we are going to get it moving next year as a whole. Mr President! As Mr Mattila has already pointed out, this experiment at this stage focuses precisely on how to find incentives for the coordination of social security, in this case unemployment benefits, and labour income, social security and the reception of work. We all know that this has been one big issue over the last few years, in fact for a very long time. All parties have been concerned about how to dismantle these incentive traps, which we really do have a lot of. We have also had a working group after a working group, every government has wanted to dismantle incentives traps, has developed participatory social security, and many parties have also expressed their support for some form of basic income or negative income tax. Now the Sipilä government is the first one to move. In this speech, I would also like to raise a national income register, which I am sure you are familiar with. So a year ago, in connection with this year's budget, we decided on a future national income register for the Tax Administration, which the Tax Administration, as a practical implementer, is going to draw up and make. This means that it is a real-time income register in which income, social benefits and taxation can be better coordinated. Then the need for change tax cards will be removed, and everyone will understand that, under the circumstances that we have a national income register, it is of course much simpler to implement different models of basic income or negative income tax. Mr President! I see that this basic income experiment, the first phase of which starts at the beginning of next year, is a certain kind of start or bridge being developed into the new social security of the 2020s, which takes better account of the shredding work and the fact that people need today and in the future more and more different sources of income from which their own income formation is formed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u103	Before a possible debate, the floor will be taken from the list of speakers, Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Parviainen, Mr Mäkipää, Mr Kalmari, Mr Räsänen and Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u104	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, I would like to make a few general comments on this so-called basic income and then on the basic income experiment presented by the government. As far as basic income is concerned, it has very broad public support and, as Minister Vehviläinen has said here, also among the various parties. I believe that this broad support for basic income is based on the fact that it is a general concept in which everyone can project their own hopes and dreams of a just and supportive social security system. What is expected of basic income? Waiting for it to eradicate poverty. Let us wait for it to remove unnecessary bureaucracy. Let's just wait for work to be profitable. Li Andersson expects to be able to claim higher wages, Björn Wahlroos expects to be able to pay lower wages, and all this is done in such a way that it does not cost any more. Personally, I see that basic income is a general concept, a kind of dream fool, so that everyone can formulate their own ideals. At A2's pay and work night, a participant said that basic income is as precise as, for example, the concept of "social security". So I personally do not believe that there is a basic income model that combines all discretionary and other social security benefits, which fulfils all these objectives and which does not pay any more than the current social security system. In fact, I think that the basic income concept is comparable to the large pumpkin in the Tenavat comic book, which Eppu and others looked forward to: The great pumpkin comes and solves all the problems. In fact, even the government does not really believe in basic income, even though it is now being proposed as an experiment. On page 6, the government writes: "A real basic income that would compensate for existing earnings-related benefits is not possible in social policy or economic terms." However, if we think that in the future we would have some kind of basic income or a reformed social security system based on basic income thinking, then I personally believe that it could be based mainly on this idea of negative income tax in a situation where we would have, as I understand it from 2019, a minister at our disposal. An up-to-date income register mentioned by the Vehviläinen. However, philosophically speaking, I myself am a warmer advocate of inclusive social security, i.e. I am in favour of the idea that a person who has been without work for a long time but who is able to work, a working age, would always be offered the opportunity to do something meaningful for himself, but also for society as a whole. But it may be that this inclusive social security, at least for part of the basic income, is an idea based entirely on the opposite philosophy of the so-called basic income. As far as this experiment now being presented by the government is concerned, the many problems that arise under the general concept of basic income will be well reflected in this debate, in which I predict that many strong and stable supporters of basic income will, however, criticise this experiment, say that it has been wronged. And I also think that this is not really a basic income experiment. How many different social security benefits does this basic income replace? What social security benefits are now linked to basic income? No, let's not combine most social security benefits. In this experiment, the basic unemployment allowance, i.e. basic unemployment allowance, basic daily allowance or labour market support, will be replaced by a new allowance called 'basic income' and subject to certain different conditions. But in this experiment — unlike, for example, the English model described in the government’s proposal, and there was another model — it does not combine any different forms of social security with one term called ‘basic income’. That is the first comment. The second comment is, of course, how realistic this model would be. Various experts have estimated that if this model now presented were scaled to the level of the population as a whole, it would cost between EUR 10 and 15 billion a year more than the current costs. What, then, is this experiment about, an experiment in which basic income does not, for example, replace housing allowance or where basic income does not, for example, replace income support, not to mention other benefits? In my opinion, this experiment is a test of incentives for the long-term unemployed. We form two groups, an experimental group and a control group. The 2000 long-term unemployed under the experiment will be given, instead of the current basic unemployment benefit, a basic income, now called unemployment benefit, which will not go away, nor will it be reduced, even if the person concerned becomes employed. This is also linked to the fact that the person concerned is not obliged to participate in labour market policy measures and is therefore not threatened with any severity unless he participates. Then we have another group, the control group, the 2000 long-term unemployed, who are receiving the current unemployment allowance, i.e. basic daily allowance or labour market support, and they have the situation today that, if they are employed, they will then melt off the unemployment benefit. Now we ask and try out who will be better employed: those who are entitled to keep their unemployment benefits when they are employed, or those who are not allowed to keep unemployment benefits when they are employed? And this experiment and its results are now said to be awaited with great enthusiasm from abroad. Well, I can now say in advance in public that the result of the experiment is, quite certainly, that those who are entitled to keep their unemployment benefits when they are employed are better employed than those who are not allowed to keep unemployment benefits when they are employed. I dare to predict this result now. Of course, there are regional differences between the long-term unemployed, the hard-to-work people, there are also differences as to whether it will melt away the possible housing allowance, whether it will melt off the potential income support, but even on these marginal conditions I dare say that the result of the experiment is that when a person is entitled to keep his unemployment benefit even if he takes up shredding work, precarious work, part-time work, fixed-term work, he will be employed better than a normal unemployed person who cannot take up such work without affecting his unemployment benefit. So this is the end result of the experiment. I dare to predict it this way. Then what's so good about this? Well, of course it is a good thing that this is being tried out now, we will have more detailed scientific assessments of these effects, and it is good that it is being shown to everyone that incentives to work have an impact on people's employment. So you, fundamental income believers, who criticise the changes in unemployment benefit by saying that changing unemployment benefit will not create any new jobs, will not create any new jobs, but testing basic income will not create any new jobs, and yet you will see that the people who, when they are employed, are entitled to their unemployment benefit, which is now referred to as basic income, will be employed better than the unemployed in the control group, whose unemployment benefit will naturally leave if they are given employment. In other words, this good thing is now being shown to everyone that neither Mr Lindtman nor Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto nor anyone has to say anymore that it will not create any new jobs when unemployment benefits are changed. In other words, incentives for an unemployed person are relevant to their employment, and this will be proven in this experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u105	Mr President, Madam President! It is refreshing to speak more optimisticly about the government proposal than Mr Zyskowicz, the representative of the Government Party and the Coalition Party, but of course I have different points of view here as well. Nevertheless, I believe that this first stage of the experiment on partial basic income — although, Mr Zyskowicz, this is not about the basic result in the broadest sense of the word — is a major step not only for the experimental culture in Finland but also for the modernisation of our social security systems. At least this opens up opportunities. This national basic income experiment has already received quite a lot of positive attention in the world and is much awaited. Researchers are also interested in it. It is now up to the government to ensure that this experiment meets the expectations it has had. It's not that easy, as I'm about to tell you. Over time, Finnish social security has become a rather complex patchwork in which creativity is unfortunately burdensome and difficult for many of us and bureaucracy is quite high. This complexity poses considerable challenges for both those receiving social security and those granting it. In addition to being trapped in incentive traps, under-use of social security, for example, is a real problem in Finland. It is often so difficult to apply for subsidies that many people fail to apply for the benefits they are entitled to, resulting in other costs for society when people are less well off. Aid is often not applied for by the most vulnerable and often suffers more than others, for example, from poverty and other economic difficulties. This basic income model can provide some solutions to these and many other issues. After all, I do not think that the idea behind basic income is the dream fool to which Mr Zyskowicz referred, but that it is defined that such a universal, unconditional social benefit would be available. It is philosophically very different from the stick-based system which, at least recently, has been given more prominence in Finland. Basic income thus enables the individual to have more choice and decision-making powers in his/her own affairs. It encourages work and makes it easier for the individual to adapt to different life situations and to move between them. The purpose of the experiment, which will start from the beginning of next year, is to demonstrate the value of basic income as an enabler of active human life paths and as a safeguard against changes that may arise. So instead of controlling, the key is a positive belief in the future and trust in individuals. Just as tax returns have been completed with great experience of the paper-based system of notification based on trust, I think it is a good time to try this procedure as part of our safety net. I am therefore pleased that the government has taken an active role in the debate on basic incomes. Of course, this first stage is challenging in many respects in this experiment. The experiment has an impact on a very tight budget and a very tight timetable in a situation where the scope and sampling of this experiment are below what is hoped for. The fact that only 2000 unemployed are now included is rather limited. For example, the preliminary study of the project suggested the possibility of experimenting with basic income at several different levels of benefit and tax. The study group was also intended to consist of selected low-income households, unemployed, employed, self-employed, micro-entrepreneurs, temporary workers, shredders. These would all be groups which would probably benefit more and greatly from the effects of the basic income. It is therefore regrettable that, because of this rigorous experiment, the participants are now limited to the unemployed — of course it is also an important group. Fortunately, however, the proposal states that the experiment can also be extended at a later stage. In the alternative budget for the Greens, Mr President, we have put forward both additional time and funding for the basic income experiment. We proposed extending the experiment from two years to three years, with an additional EUR 10 million per year. Not yet stars from the sky in this case either, but a slightly larger-speed experiment. With this addition, the pilot group could have been increased to 3,500, including self-employed workers and low-income employees. In addition, we propose that the tax element be included — to which the Minister also referred in his introduction that it is not included in this model. Experimenting with the tax element and the various models involved would require the effective income register that Minister Vehviläinen has already spoken about here, and I hope that this will be made available in Finland as soon as possible. The fact that the tax element is not involved in this experiment now leads me to believe that the basic income to be tested cannot be regarded as feasible for the whole population as such, and that is what Mr Zyskowiczk referred to in his speech. I agree with this, as it is, extended to the whole population, this model would probably be very expensive, up to 10 to 15 billion, and it would be more than difficult to introduce it in this economic situation. That is why we should not expect miracles from the experiment now either, but let us assume that it has the potential to create new perspectives for our social security debate. Mr President! This partial basic income model is therefore a good step, but it is partly a truncated one. The idea of just trying to get the unemployed to work with basic income comes from the design of the experiment. However, this is a broader issue, as I said. In my opinion, the experiment does not take sufficient account of the diversity of working life, which makes transitions between work and unemployment more flexible, and if the limitations of the experiment are not correctly understood in the final report and in the debate on it, then I see the risk that we will be at risk of seeing basic income as an alternative to unemployment benefits. Therefore, it would also be important to examine whether the basic income can help reduce poverty and drop-out, reduce social benefits, tax-related bureaucracy and encourage work on a wider scale. It is now quite hard to understand that, although basic income is an opportunity to clarify and solve problems, it is not just a blissful solution to everything. The ratio of basic income to supplementary subsidies, for example for housing, should be carefully assessed. In addition, for example, the gender impact assessment of basic income should be carried out very carefully. It is absolutely essential to know how the experiment affects, for example, the home or employment opportunities of parents of young children, and perhaps in general terms, even more broadly, the basic income experiment should be seen as part of a change in political culture, where policy reforms in general are based on as strong research evidence and practical experimentation as possible. For this, thank the government for taking this path forward. The Government's own proposal states that the most significant social impacts of the experiment would be indirect and reflected in the direction in which the debate on the future of the Finnish social security system will develop in the coming years. It is our job to ensure that the experiment provides us with the keys to reform and does not close the doors. Mr President! For example, the transformation of work will shape our opportunities to live our daily lives so strongly that these experiments are needed. Let us take advantage of these changes and make the most of these experiments, but let us also be prepared to expand these experiments and make real use of the results we will get from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u106	Mr President! The most important objective for the Finnish economy is to increase employment; it is also the primary objective of this basic income experiment. Recruiting a job — any job — must not complicate the job seeker’s everyday life, and work must always be profitable. The basic income model has been discussed for years, but for some reason it has not yet been tested in previous governments. This government is the first one to set out to carry out a basic income experiment in Finland in accordance with the Government Programme — thank you for that. The main purpose of the experiment is to determine whether the basic income can be used to encourage work in a sustainable manner, but also to reduce poverty and drop-out, and to reduce red tape related to social benefits and taxation. The current social security system consists of a number of parallel benefits and can cause both financial and bureaucratic incentives for beneficiaries to receive part-time or short-term work. In certain circumstances, short and low-paid periods of employment may lead to a low or zero increase in the disposable income of the individual receiving social security benefits as a result of the employment of a person, when the earned euro is both taxable income and a reduction in the social security benefits paid to the person. These so-called financial incentive traps refer to a situation where it is not economically viable for a person to gain employment or increase employment. The need-tested social security system requires beneficiaries to report on potential earnings, and this leads to delays and breaks in the payment of benefits. These so-called red tape traps can help to prevent, above all, partial and short-term work. The study group, which carried out the preliminary study of the basic income experiment, decided to recommend in its report a partial basic income as the starting point for the design of the experiment. This is the most realistic option to replace existing basic security benefits with a minimum of around EUR 560. This is a small sample, a group of 2000 people, and it has been said that this is a pre-trial experiment and then we can see what is being done about this project in the future. And, as has been said many times here, if this entire basic income were to be introduced, it would cost a fortune — the current basic income now is EUR 20 million. It is well-founded why experimental and control groups are selected by random selection. Participation in the experiment is mandatory so that the results of the experiment are not distorted. It is not possible to produce reliable results through voluntary sampling. Thus, all differences in the average employment rates of the groups observed during the experiment are due to the basic income. With the help of an adequate pilot group and an equivalent control group in all possible ways, it is possible to make as reliable an assessment as possible of the impact of basic income on different population groups and an overall estimate of the costs of possible national deployment. Mr President! The basic income experiment is part of the implementation of the experimental culture sought by the Government. Experiments are a tool for the development of society, which provides practical information on what works and what does not. Since basic income testing can be considered a kind of precedent for a large-scale field trial, its success would inevitably also have an impact on the extent to which the pilot culture could be promoted in the future. This experiment is unique even in the international review and the results would be reflected and have already been reflected in discussions in other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u107	Mr President! I myself have been a little clammy when the basic result has been discussed, but the better I think is this type of experiment to see the results. Of course, this is a partial basic income experiment, and it is all the charged expectations, for example, that when you apply for social security in small pieces, very fragmented, it causes humiliation for the applicant and a huge amount of work, it causes not all the support you need to receive, not necessarily, and it also causes a huge army of civil servants to take these decisions, although electronic systems have contributed little to productivity on this side. Now that this is a partial basic income experiment, we will certainly not be able to get research evidence on this issue, but we will be able to see how the employment of the unemployed will be affected by this. Of course, it is a fact that if this incentive is left behind and that does not change whether you accept or not, then it is quite likely that it will be easier to accept the work. But this too is the result, it is a fact that we can then use in other decisions. In fact, I was thinking that this is a bit of the same thinking as when the centre wanted to bring in a guarantee pension and it was brought into law. This is the basic guaranteed income for the unemployed, which would then be the same for all, without humiliating applications, and one might then disagree whether this should have been the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u108	Mr President! The reform of social security is very much to be welcomed. We all know that our current social security system is very patchy. In different situations it creates various incentives traps, it involves a huge amount of bureaucracy and so on. It is great that, step by step, Finland too would move towards a slightly simpler social security system. In the reform of social security, as in any other reform, I welcome the fact that the government has also started to promote this culture of experimentation. It is desirable that this should be extended to other issues in Finland as well, and then, through experiments, different things can be learned and applied to decision-making. But then we come to the fact that what are we going to do now? After all, this basic income experiment is a test of the EUR 560 safety component of unemployment benefit, i.e. the fact that when a person gets a job, he is allowed to keep EUR 560. It's the first time a guy gets paid the same salary with a pair of shorts, but another guy gets a tax-free income of 560 euros. You'd think the other one sitting on the lathes is asking a little bit that what this kind of experiment is that it would be a mess to be involved in. When this is the starting point, then it will come to the very biggest criticism that has already been raised here, precisely that this could not be applied to the entire population in any way. It is quite clear that such a system, which, according to experts' estimates, would cost between EUR 10 and 15 billion, is a system that Finland cannot afford on a month's notice. It must then be asked that when we are basically already experimenting with the system, which we cannot bring into practice for every Finn, what is the reason why it is being tested? I know there are many other reasons. It is argued here that there is a desire to try out partial basic income, and this too is a certain evidence of social validity, but it is still a fundamental question whether it is not always worth trying something that would then be possible to implement. Another major criticism concerns this lack of taxation. For perfectly understandable reasons, this cannot now be combined with the tax element and the way taxation would then cut off this extra income, but it is quite clear that a system in which we simply provide tax-free subsidies to everyone, whether he is employed or not, does not respect the principle which, I believe, has also been the main argument of the proponents of the basic incomes that it will then be cut as income increases away. That is why the entire financial capacity of this system is based on the fact that those who do not need it will be cut out through taxation. This is not happening. This is the only thing that remains for these people, whether they get a low-paid job or even someone with a higher wage, so that the state continues to give them EUR 560 each month, free of charge and tax. In this respect, the idea of basic income has now come a long way in this experiment. That is why I come to the last point, and that is whether we should not now wait a bit to make this national income register work, so that we can try this experiment in such a way that this tax element is involved. On such an important issue, I do not understand why we should start running. I understand that there are certain political passions here, and I'm sure this is where the government gets its own points, and I'm sure it's nice to tell international guests that we have this kind of progressive experiment, but this is not the most important thing to spoil with such an incomplete experiment. So if we wanted to get some valid information and results on this too, which we could then use to reform social security, then we should think about this experiment properly. I am sure that the definition of persons would then be different, would apply to different groups, and this form of support would probably be different, and would have this tax element involved, and I would therefore like the government to reconsider this experiment and perhaps transfer it to be carried out at the time when this national income register is put into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u109	I will give the floor to Mr Kontula, and then we will have a brief debate, which seems to have become necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u110	Mr President! After all, a partial basic income experiment is in the same sense as a fork is a partial meal. That it doesn't get quite right, but we're not talking about a completely different subject. But that doesn't mean that this is a bad experiment. It's just a false name. The aim of the experiment is to reduce the incentive traps for work in unemployment security, and the difference between this money and the safety component is that not only does it leave the person in the hands when he is employed, but it also removes the fear that he will be left completely empty, will be sanctioned if he goes to work in some wrong way or fills in some wrong paper in the wrong place. The arbitrage that is a very central part of our current system of unemployment security and perhaps the most difficult part of its bureaucratic trap will be eliminated here. I think it is a big step forward in relation to the current system of protection, and that is why I think it is worth trying this. In addition, this is a very well-designed experiment, as long as it is not called a basic income experiment. Close monitoring has been carried out. This is well thought out and assembled, and I have no bad word to say about this implementation. The authors have done what they have been able to do with the money, with the framework conditions, with the questions they have been given. Well, why is it not a basic income? After all, basic income, although an abstract concept, is not an arbitrary concept, it is not a concept which means anything at all, but, during the debate on basic income in recent decades, certain characteristics of basic income have been established which are not tested in any way in this particular experiment. One of these signs is that the tax system in some way is linked to that basic income, as the previous speaker has already pointed out. Another very central point is that the basic idea of basic income is not to target the unemployed or any other group, but to look beyond such categories of modern industrial societies, to look at a time where we no longer have a separate category of 'unemployed', but we have people whose administrative status varies so quickly that such categorisations make no sense. That is what we are heading towards, and that is why concentrating the experiment on a particular administrative category is more backward than forward looking, rather than an old system rather than what has been considered typical of basic income in the debate on basic income. The second thing that is missing is the risk capital: the idea that I can always and in all situations plan my life forward so that I know that at least the minimum comes to me. Well, in this reform this is the case for the past two years, but two years is a relatively short time to try a change that should have a mental impact on the choices we make over the long term. And in this regard too, the effects of this experiment on basic income are likely to be limited. How certain a person considers the existence of its minimum level of security affects such things as the risks he dares to take in relation to his own employment or, for example, whether he or she dares to set up a business idea that is not fully shaped or difficult to predict whether it is worth it or not, whether he or she dares to go looking for work abroad and leave the environment and the operating models in which he or she knows he or she is currently going to survive. This venture capital will not be accessible through such short-term experiments. Perhaps the biggest problem with regard to red tape traps is that this reform does not interfere in any way with the conditions for granting income support. And if we now assume that the majority, or at least a large proportion of people selected for the experiment, live in households and that income support is granted on a domestic basis, then there will certainly be a significant proportion of the target population of people who receive income support in one form or another. In other words, income support is a bureaucratic trap of bureaucratic traps. As long as every euro earned in it is taken away from a person, so will the Euro-denominated incentive trap remain in it and there will hardly be any significant change in the activities of those people who are in receipt of income support. The big, separate problem is that there are many community promises about basic income. — But since the President-in-Office is knocking behind me, I am perhaps going to take a completely separate speech on this, it is such a big issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u115	Let's have a little debat. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button. And in this debate the Minister will also be given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u116	Mr President! There has been a lot of criticism of this pilot model in the speeches, and Mrs Zyskowicz went so far in her criticism as to claim that the government itself would not believe this proposal at hand. I disagree, and I interpret this motion differently. This is precisely a partial basic income test which has been considered to be the best starting point for carrying out this experiment. In fact, Mr Zyskowicz's speech goes through the fear, the fear that this experiment will produce results that would be in favour of the introduction of a basic income in this country. Personally, at least I'm going to go with an open mind, try and see and explore before we lose. And it is also good to bear in mind that several researchers have found that this will provide good research data as a basis for future decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u117	Mr President! The basic income experiment itself is to be welcomed. Unfortunately, however, the design of the experiment is neither credible nor impressive. This is also the view of many experts. The reasons have been, among other things, limited budget, a small sample of 2000 people targeting the unemployed, a lack of taxation, and, as has been mentioned here, if it were to be expanded as a whole, the total cost could be up to EUR 15 billion. Now the government is preparing the Incomes Register, and personally I strongly believe in this Incomes Register and its opportunities. It gives us a strong tool for reconciling work and social security and taxation. So now I ask the Minister that when this gives us a better chance of actually experimenting with the basic income experiment and its ultimate objectives,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u118	Mr President! You never get to try it if you always have to try it better. How do you know if you've never tried? After all, it is the politicians' job to look at different options, and now this partial basic income comes from theory to testing. The aim of the basic income experiment is to carry out a scientific and reliable assessment of the feasibility of reforming social security through the use of basic income to reduce the incentives for doing work. These effects on employment are assumed to arise in two ways: financial encouragement and then taking up work in these short-term relationships, too, without the red tape involved in applying for and granting social security. I would also like to ask the Minister: what kind of touch is there, how could this affect, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u119	Mr President! Thank you for the good speeches that have been made here. In particular, I think that the in-depth speeches on the toilet were all good. On the basis of what has been said, I think it has happened as I said, i.e. everyone is projecting their own dreams and views on good, fair and supportive social security. It has also been agreed that this is not a basic income test — I would understand — but rather an incentive test for the long-term unemployed. And this is what the government says, among other things, here on page 6 in its own presentation. Representative Kärnä, I have not claimed that the government would not believe in this experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u122	Mr Zyskowicz is quite wrong now. It is precisely this basic income experiment that the government is proposing that is equal to the minimum level of protection for these unemployed, which is the model that has been presented, for example, in this citizens' initiative on basic income during the last term of government. But what is to blame for the government is that this proposal does not contain a tax element. That's what makes the government's show a dream fool. If you had included this tax element, then we would have at hand an experiment which is in line with most of the basic income proposals, but which would also be realistic and feasible later in the country as a whole. The Greens have therefore suggested that the next step should be to extend the target group to include self-employed, self-employed, shredded workers and so on, and this very essential tax element. I'm gonna ask the person who's here right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u123	Mr President! I understand this criticism of the lack of a tax element, because, as several speakers have said with reference to the same experts, if this experiment is scaled to the level of the entire population, the cost would increase by EUR 10 to 15 billion, which means that there is no realism here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u126	And the reply, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u127	Mr Zyskowicz here himself shows that he is not at all familiar with the debate on the basic result that has been taking place for decades. No one has proposed that basic income should solve world peace and all the red tape problems. Yes, the basic income tests presented in different models in Finland have been based on the assumption that, in addition to basic income, a person could, if necessary, receive income support, housing allowance, which is quite reasonable because the price of living in different parts of Finland is different, and various earnings-related benefits. This presentation does not contradict the models and theories presented in any way. What is lacking here is what the government itself does wrong: you do not bring in a tax element and you do not experiment with different groups of people, which would show how basic income is the solution to the changed working life, which most people suffer because they are not long-term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u128	And in this part of the debate, Mr Zyskowicz, for the last time, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u129	Mr President! I readily admit that I have not been involved in this basic income experiment in recent decades, at least not as much as Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and many others in this Chamber. But obviously there has been no representative, Anna Kontula, because she too stated in her speech that this is not a basic income experiment. As a result of this basic income experiment, the idea of basic income is to combine various forms of income support — that is to say, not income support, but income support — and that is how the reduction in bureaucracy will be achieved. Well, now that Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto here says that this is not the intention, the intention is that housing allowance is paid on top of it, the intention is that income support is paid on top of it, well then families with children need different support, disabled people need their own support and so on, so on, and so on, so I'm just asking where the bureaucracy is being removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u130	Mr President! Yes, almost all basic holidays retain a number of means-tested subsidies, but at the same time they generally include simplifying and combining aids, that is true. In my view, the essential thing that needs to be understood here is that the question of 'basic income — yes or no'. is the question of whether everyone has earned the minimum income needed to fill the refrigerator and even for clothes bought from a flea. If so, then 'yes' to basic income, because our current system is unable to provide that minimum level for everyone. For us, the under-use of income support is as low as 50%: up to half of those who earn less than EUR 485 per month will not apply for income support because that system is so difficult that they will not get away with it. This is the big insecurity that is distressing,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u131	Mr President! Sometimes you forget, or at least the viewer gets confused, what the whole thing is all about when you even bring up lily stalks. But all the same, I think we all agree that this is a unique experience, and I am glad that this government has had the courage and the degree of unity that it has reached this stage, that this is a referral debate. And I would like to remind you — and we all know that too — that this is the first stage of this experiment, and that is a good start. With this timetable we had this much opportunity, and I hope that the Ministry and further away will also receive the message from this Chamber that there is a desire to extend this. But at this first stage, we have a basic idea to find out whether partial dismantling of the income trap and the red tape trap and the abolition of sanctions will increase the employment of those receiving basic unemployment security, i.e. those who are hard to work. I guess we government partners don't have a problem with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u133	Mr President! Is there anything good in this basic income experiment now other than this name, the basic income experiment, because if this is called the long-term unemployed incentive experiment, then I think it sounds much worse in my ear if we start with the fact that we are doing the basic income experiment. And I think that what the government is trying to do here is to reduce poverty and the fall. This is indeed an experiment. We're not going to get anything done or done if we don't go out and try something. Yes, I have to say that this government, which is now operating, has historically progressed in the sense that previous governments — although you have spoken and expressed various wishes for a basic income experiment — have not achieved it. But now there's a model, it's not necessarily perfect and it's not the best, but it's a move forward, and 2017, 2018 and 2019 will be evaluated. There has also been talk here of the people, the 2000 who may be experiencing that hope in some places,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u134	I will give the floor to the representatives of Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Ala-Nissilä, and then the Minister will respond. And then, even after that, we'll continue this debut for a short time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u135	Mr President! The culture of experimentation itself must be supported, but I believe that such a major social change should have provided a proper basis for experimenting, which means, for example, the participation of a much larger population. I am afraid that this experiment will not provide us with the information that will apply to the entire population, which will enable us to continue the legislative work. In fact, if the basic income were to be realised with this model throughout the country, the cost would be so great that the model could not be carried out. So, in my opinion, we are trying out an impossible model. Moreover, this pilot scheme is also incomplete from the point of view of the objectives of the basic income that I have defined. I represent those representatives who have said here that this is not really a basic income experiment, I think it is mainly a labour market subsidy experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u136	Mr President! Here was a good observation that the guarantee pension, which has been an important issue for the city centre, is in a way a basic income item. Indeed, this is accompanied by an incentive trap task force set up by Minister Orpo and the government. The Audit Committee has currently set up a study to investigate the effectiveness of housing policy, especially in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. In other words, this whole, this incentive for social security and income, is a very big and important issue, and it is good that it is being clarified in many ways. I would like to ask whether the length of this experiment is sufficient in view of its effects. I remember when in time a differentiation of employers’ contributions was carried out in favour of low-paid employment, so it was too short-term. It took many years before the household allowance began to play games with people’s behavior. So this is the challenge, and I ask the Minister this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u137	And now, Minister, three minutes from that podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u138	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. First of all, Mr Zyskowicz, thank you for your vigorous speech, it is easy to continue to praise this motion. I am sure that we have been there so far in terms of the general concept, and we are now seeking answers. And do we have a connection here? This is precisely what we are trying to find out what we should and must unite. When you compare this with Britain, there is already an existing model, is that not so, and now we are talking about experimenting. What about receiving short-term work? Yeah, it's got to be worth it. What about becoming an entrepreneur? I do think that these are very valuable objectives, and I am glad that you have acknowledged those marginal conditions. They are also called incentive traps, unemployment traps, income traps, bureaucracy traps — these have been identified in this proposal. Here Mrs Parviainen asked about the sampling and how this has now been done just like this. This experiment has a certain budget and a certain optimisation must be made. Mr Juvonen also asked about this sampling, and this has now been optimised with this budget and with this timetable. Mr Räsänen, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Kiljunen asked if we were going to try something that could not be applied and whether we could move. Much of this experiment, the elements of the experiment, is indeed moving into the future, so let us get started. And when you said, Mäkisalo-Ropponen, that you are afraid that you will not receive information, I am afraid that we will not get information when you do not ask. So you have to start asking that information and then you can start analyzing it. Mr Kontula, yes, we are not talking about basic leave, but I do think that this is an experiment on basic income insofar as it has now been possible to build it at this time. We have certain systemic technical challenges, this has a certain budget. Congressman Ala-Nissila, you asked me what length it was. Well, that is the length of the budget that we may have; it must be proportionate to the resources we have in place. Mr Zyskowicz, you have made the point that we are dreaming here. Well, what if now the little one is a dream or a game of thought, because we haven't had a model, we haven't had an experiment and we don't have any information. And, as you said, the whole pot is not here, the 20 million out of the budget that we are about to spend, but this is a two-step project: this is a pilot project, and there is a research project that will take information from this experiment forward. Mr Huhtasaari, when you asked about the fight against the grey economy, you can and may expect an impact — that is, the impact you would like to see. But were the answers now about all... Yes, Mr Kontula, you also asked how the impact on business models and grass-roots operators has been taken into account — I understood that this was the question — and how follow-up has been carried out. Well, of course, this implementation is led and directed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and the executive is Kela, which is certainly the follow-up and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u139	Let's just go back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u140	Mr President! Any social scientist can tell us that if the sample size is 2000 people, the experiment cannot produce sustainable results for the population as a whole, on the basis of which the legislation could proceed. When these resources do not bring about a proper trial setting, what good will this experiment ultimately do? Is this an experiment for the government only an end in itself, because it cannot be said that it is such a limited experiment? Experimenting on basic incomes as such would be something to be welcomed, and we very much appreciate the experts who, with these scarce resources, have tried to prepare the matter, but indeed the government has made this proper experiment quite impossible, and we can ask what that ultimate purpose is. This experiment has nothing to do with science, and conclusions should not be drawn from such an experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u141	Mr President! In itself, this sample size is not necessarily a problem. In order to achieve credible results, even if a sample the size of a thousand can already be quite informative — depending on what you want to know. After all, scientists have planned this experiment. I'm sure there'll be some interesting information. But I still think that there are too many expectations in this debate as to how you can and how you should proceed by experimenting with people, because ultimately, when planning a larger renovation of social security, it is of course worth doing much cheaper and more effective experiments, i.e. using these good simulation models, which can then predict a wide range of outcomes. In particular, such partial experiments are therefore deficient that if we make a major social security reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I would prefer not to speak on the speaker, but when the minute exceeds 50%, the pressure starts to come on that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u143	Mr President! I have seen many of these types of experiments or studies where the sample size has been similar, and they have worked very well, but the fact is that there is no combination of earnings-related unemployment benefit, housing allowance and income support in this experiment, for example. In this way, we will not be able to get all that we can, of course, get out of the applicant's behaviour. I would also like to propose solutions to the important issue of Communityism raised by Mr Kontula. I wonder whether it would be possible to create a basis in which all those involved in this experiment, if they so wish, could apply, because today communities are being created more than regionally. For example, the parental care you brought up,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u144	Mr President! It is, of course, a good thing that these research arrangements and experimental options are being considered in relation to basic income, and here the officials and Kela and others have described these different options and tried to get a research plan that would give the right results. But these have then been put aside, so that the government has now chosen this very limited, reduced way in which to go. Is the size of the sample 2000 or what, that is another matter, but the fundamental question here is that it is limited to certain people, i.e. the unemployed, who are on labour market support or those receiving basic daily allowance and those who are unemployed, while this whole idea of basic income is based on a slightly different world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u145	In this debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Mäkelä, Parviainen, Kontula, Heikkinen, Zyskowicz, and then the Minister will have a small reply too, of course. Then we move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u146	Mr President! It will certainly become very clear to everyone during this debate, which is why this experiment has not been carried out before. So when you start building a house with a brick in your hand, you get to criticize why you're only building a wall when the house isn't ready. In other words, when you have to come up with something to criticise, then you come up with something, for example, to criticise the fact that this is an attempt to solve the problems of unemployment. However, according to a number of surveys, unemployment is one of our most serious problems. So if this were to be helped at some level, if not solved, by unemployment, would this experiment not have fulfilled its purpose in abundance? I am surprised at this high-positive attitude that if the long-term unemployed were given a little over 500 euros a month, duty-free without fear of losing, he would immediately be employed in hard-paid employment. If this were to happen, would it not be worth paying a little more for those long - term unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u147	Mr President! We were thinking about the scientific aspect of this experiment, and I am at least living in the belief that there are, however, top-level national experts who, within this challenging timetable and challenging budget, are trying to draw the best possible conclusions with the material they can collect. I believe that, despite the criticisms that have been made here, this experiment should definitely be made now and not postponed, because with this experiment we will, as it were, be able to open up the game to this broader debate on how to steer the paradigm of the social security system towards the direction to which Mr Kontula referred with merit in his speech. He pointed out that such categories, whether a person is currently in employment, in employment, unemployed and so on, cease to exist in a change in the working life of the future, which is in fact already here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u148	Mr President! I would like to clarify my question to the Minister. When I was talking about the possible new business models that this experiment might encourage people to do, I meant, for example, renting a dwelling. If I rent my own apartment on this kind of global platform through Airbnb, then Kela does not get any direct information about it unless Kela has some kind of tool to use it from me, and if you look at the direct employment figures, then my employment does not show it in any way. However, it is an economic and time-intensive activity in which I wash sheets and clean places for the next guests and then receive compensation. In the same way it does not show, for example, if the basic income of a neighbor initiates a project in which parents take turns caring for children in the yard so that children do not need to be taken to day care. Well, this isn't a community experiment,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u149	Mr President! Somehow this debate gives a picture of this society, too, when it seems that in many speeches it is not entirely against, but it is a bit wrong to shut down. The SATA Committee of Vanhanen's second government is a good example of how it has always been important for the city centre to live in time and in time. It was another indication that, when everything is included, there will be no result. I am grateful that this government was able to set the focus on this time frame, in this economic situation, which we can afford, has taken the best expert organisation in Finland, Kela, to plan and implement it, thanks to Kela's direction. At least I sincerely expect that we will have results, and then we will see where this will be extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u150	Mr President! Minister Mattila, I have nothing against dreaming. I just wanted to point out that basic income is so popular among citizens and among parties, because everyone can project their own dream of what a supportive and fair social security system is. These basic income models are also being developed within the coalition, and of course I wish them every success. But this experiment is not about experimenting with a realistic basic income model. This experiment will try out whether the long-term unemployed person will be better employed if he is allowed to keep his unemployment benefit than if he is not allowed to keep unemployment benefit, and I am certainly not afraid of the results of this experiment, because I myself firmly believe that the result is that a person with better incentives to work will be better employed than a person with lower incentives to find employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u151	Minister, two minutes on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u152	Mr President! I'll go back to that last round. Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, you asked about this tax element and the national income register. They are already involved in this government proposal and I believe they will be very possible to take the next steps. However, an estimate has been made of this that the National Incomes Register will not be possible until 2019, and then we have to live on that schedule. Mr Kontula, I understand that basic income does not prevent such activity. But as I said again, STM leads and directs and Kela is then the executive, the next, and what it receives, it will certainly come through this way what you were asking. Then representatives of Eloranta, Tuula Haatainen: Congressman Eloranta, you asked about the ultimate purpose of the experiment. To a very large extent, I believe in what is found in the government's arguments about the ultimate purpose. I think that there is mention of simplifying and streamlining income security. There has been talk of incentives for the unemployed, income traps, bureaucratic traps. Tuula Haatainen, you asked about the fact that there are people there with basic allowance and income support who have selected themselves for this study. I'm thinking about them. I would like to emphasise that this is a two-step process. This is now a start, and I hope that we can only improve on this. Thank you, too, for the debate that has been mentioned here, that I dare say that the whole of Parliament can also improve this together. When this goes to committees for consultation, I appreciate what is being done here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u153	Let's move on to the list of speakers. Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto's name was mentioned not only in the Minister's speech but also in Mr Zyskowicz's speech a couple of times. I will give him a reply, but definitely only to him, then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u154	Thank you, Mr President. In reply to Mr Zyskowicz, when you argued that I would have said that the aim of the basic income experiment was not to harmonise benefits, I did not say that. It is precisely the case that different models have proposed that basic income should replace all the minimum benefits, i.e. they should be harmonised. But instead, the basic income presentations that have been made here in Finland and which I personally know and support have not, for example, suggested that basic income and housing allowance or basic income and earnings-related benefits should be replaced, i.e. this would be the so-called full basic income. Perhaps the fact is that most people view such a model as unrealistic and not in favour of it. I'm one of them. But to the Minister, I do not agree that this proposal would include a tax element. That is precisely what it does not contain, and that is the problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u155	Now that minute has been very much exceeded. Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u156	Mr President! Indeed, this is being tried because we have not tried before, and as a bonus, we are getting international attention. Of course, we all certainly have a desire to improve our system, and then we can draw conclusions from the results of this basic income experiment and continue to discuss and develop our system. I'm sure we'll never make the perfect system, but you always like it and you can make it better. Incentive traps are a reality. After all, the incentive trap means a situation in which it is not worthwhile for a person receiving social benefits to go to work, because the income from work reduces benefits and does not increase the income from the handicraft. Furthermore, even a short employment relationship can cause breaks and delays in payment if you have to resort again to benefits, so this will free you in the sense that you have such a certain degree of security that in any case I get and can look in many directions and try different things. I personally believe that many other government parties always talk and discuss what should be done, but this government is experimenting. It takes courage, and this is an ambitious experiment, and we will soon get to the next stage and discuss the results.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u157	Mr President! Good Minister on the stand! This is indeed an experiment. The aim is to reduce poverty and social exclusion, reduce red tape related to social benefits and taxation, and encourage work in a sustainable way. Encourage work — it is a phrase that has been used a lot here in Parliament, and we all talk about how work should be encouraged and more and more people would find that job. If this is now one such way for these 2000 people, it is a good thing to try this experiment. Indeed, it has also received international attention that Finland has come so far that we are really starting to try this issue already in 2017. Among other things, Denmark has come to me with a lot of contacts and requests for interviews, so that I can tell you how this is going to go and what it contains. And of course, what will be the outcome, then the experiment will determine. There are 2,000 people there who are really waiting for which one of them to get here, and all around Finland will be chosen. Remember, however, that we have different expenses all over Finland, i.e. the amount that is good for someone in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, can then be much better in Northern Savo again – it must be taken into account that Finland is a large country and the economic situation is different in different parts of Finland. I'm glad we're gonna try it. As I said in the previous speech, for years this has been discussed here in Parliament and it has been flashed when such a basic income experiment will come. Perhaps the name does not necessarily fit in, but it does tell us that there is a positive attitude, and it is perhaps a little, I would say, gentler for those people who are involved in this experiment than for us to talk about such an incentive test or how the long-term unemployed can now be brought to work there, because it has also emerged here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u158	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new law on basic income testing and to amend the Income Tax Act and the Advance Recovery Act. I'm very critical of the whole idea. As we have already heard, the basic income test would be carried out over the next two years. For those selected for the experiment, the Social Insurance Institution would pay EUR 560 per month for basic income during the experiment. The basic income would be tax-free income for the recipient and would not be reduced by the other income of the beneficiary of the basic income. What is good about this proposal is that this is an experiment, which will enable us to assess whether the basic income tax can be used to reform social security in such a way as to reduce the incentives for doing work in particular. It is also interesting to see how much this experiment is going to cost and what it would cost if it were for people other than those involved in this experiment. I think it would be good if, as part of this experiment, all forms of aid were to be reviewed. For example: This year, housing allowance is already paid from tax resources over EUR 1.7 billion. The amount exceeds the limit of 2 billion by 2018 at the latest. The number of beneficiaries is around 800,000 and their number is increasing. The beneficiaries of the aid should not, of course, be blamed. After all, the need for housing allowance is due to too low incomes and too high housing costs. Housing allowance was originally intended to provide temporary support to people and families who had experienced financial difficulties. It is now perceived as an advantage and it would be difficult to abandon it. However, in many civilized countries it is not being paid. In Finland, this comprehensive housing allowance enables the costs of housing construction to be increased and overpriced, as well as speculation on the ground in growth centres, especially in Helsinki, with the informed support of all of us and also of municipal decision-makers. Housing is a fundamental right for all of us. Without an apartment, Finland's winter will die. However, you should sometimes wonder whether we will continue to support the transfer of income from society to market forces. Why do some 60 per cent of people living in a rented dwelling receive housing allowance in Finland? Mr President! The patchwork and diversity of the Finnish social security system is a real challenge for the provision of basic income. It is therefore essential in this proposal that this proposed experiment is, above all, a legal and administrative test of whether the basic income of the proposal is compatible with our social security and unemployment security system within the timeframe required by the Government Programme. In that sense, I welcome this government proposal. On these grounds, I believe that the basic income experiment will also be accepted at the Sevettijärvi Bar. Just now, outside the Chamber, I spoke to a person on the telephone, and he was waiting for this basic income experiment to come into effect, and he hoped that he too would be involved. But, as we have heard today, about 2,000 people will be selected and we will see what happens to them. Then there has been a debate here about whether this is sufficient for an accurate investigation. Equally, when the support of the government parties and opposition parties is asked whether it is sufficient for scientific research. It would seem that even the support of the Finns is rising according to this latest support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u159	Mr President! The basic income experiment is a source of passion, as has already been noted in the referral debate here in the Chamber. Here I would like to thank you once again for having the opportunity to speak a little longer, and I am glad that we have a body such as Kela, whose preparation for this basic income experiment is absolutely essential. Of course, there have been others involved, but Kela's resources are certainly unique in that they have enabled us to make it possible, even in such a short timescale and with these marginal conditions of the economy, for us to now reach this stage, for the basic income experiment to be genuinely carried out on the ground. After all, this basic income experiment is part of the Sipilä Board of Directors’ Services customer-oriented top project. This government has stated in many ways in its government programme that we also have the will to develop our social and health care services in such a way that there is a one-stop shop principle, and the same applies to this development of social security. Through this basic income experiment, a patchwork that has been built for decades is being sought to find out whether it would be possible to simplify it. Mr President! Efforts were made and efforts have been made to simplify social security in the past. At the time of Matti Vanhanen's second government, the SATA Committee tried to explain this on a broad basis, with an ambitious aim of getting the Finnish social security system when Finland turns 100 years old, to be simple and clearer. Well, we all know what happened to it: there was no consensus as to the direction in which that system should be developed. But also thanks to Hyssälä, then Minister for Social Affairs and Health, for being an iron woman, and now again in the role of Kela, as Director General, has been a great driver of this preparatory work. Mr President! This is unquestionably a unique experiment that has attracted a great deal of interest abroad, and, contrary to what some others think, I am very pleased that Finland has also been on the world map this way, that Finland is also profiled in the development of social security as a country with a desire to experiment and thus find better practices. And, as we know, this is the moment when the first phase of the experiment begins — this is where it is good to start. At this stage, the target group is limited to those most in need of hope and encouragement for life. The basic idea is to see whether the partial dismantling of the income trap and the red tape trap and the abolition of sanctions in this area will increase the employment of those receiving basic unemployment security, those who are hard to work. I do not believe that there are genuine opponents of this issue in this Chamber either. And I also believe that basic income will certainly have a good impact on the work and well-being of groups other than the unemployed. As this debate on referrals has shown, it is challenging in such a short time to find those permanent alternatives, permanent models of what is good, and I therefore hope that future government coalitions will also be willing to clarify and reform our social security systems in this area as well. Mr President! The aim of this basic income experiment is to find ways to increase working time, and this is the question that this experiment, beginning at the beginning of the year, is looking for an answer to. But this examination of the proposal has already shown how complex and multi-dimensional the experiment is and the whole social system in Finland is, and somehow I think that the creation of this whole pilot bill is already a big achievement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u160	Mr President! The government must certainly be commended for having the courage to test the basic income, and here my thanks are sincere and deep. I absolutely believe that, despite these shortcomings in this proposal, the basic income test must definitely be taken forward. Kela's research group has also done a very good job in preparing the proposal, for which it is commendable. Kela's preliminary studies are useful for anyone interested in how to reduce the various red tape and incentives traps and how to improve the position of low-income people and how to respond to a changed working life. They are very useful, and I recommend that everyone familiarize themselves with them. I also consider it very justified that this experiment should define the basic income test as the basis for determining that the amount of basic income corresponds to current labour market support and the level of basic daily allowance. It is justified on a number of grounds: Firstly, it corresponds, for example, to what, for example, most of the citizens' groups' initiatives put forward as a level of basic income. It is justified in the sense that the most difficult situation is, however, the people who receive minimum security and, when the level of basic income is defined as a minimum security, it would then be easier to include other groups in the next stages who receive different benefits, such as parental allowances or sickness allowances, which are specifically of a minimum level of protection. However, after these praises, it has to be said that unfortunately this government proposal itself is incomplete. Firstly, it suffers from an overly narrow and small target group, and I very much regret what is said in this proposal on page 7 of the report on what the government itself sees as the source of this demarcation. Here it is written: "The primary objective of the basic income experiment is employment. In this case, the target group does not include groups whose objective is not to improve the employment situation with basic income." In fact, this now reveals that the government has not actually understood this change in working life, which has been so much discussed in recent years. That is to say, the people most affected by the dismemberment of working life and the increase in unpredictability are those who are forced to employ themselves, i.e. they are deprived of a permanent employment relationship or, as entrepreneurs, they do not deserve enough to provide them with sufficient income, i.e. I am talking here about self-employed, freelancers, self-employed and so on. I find it very regrettable that the government does not understand precisely that a basic income would help these people's position, and I would urge the government ministers to reflect on this issue with the advice of experts. Secondly, this narrowness is due to the lack of funding, but of course it can be corrected at this next stage simply by budgeting more. The limitation in this first stage for these unemployed people receiving Kela's daily allowance is in itself practical and understandable: unemployed people receiving labour market support and basic unemployment allowance are the cheapest target group for the experiment, because in any case, the unemployment benefit paid to them by Kela can be used to finance this experiment. However, since the government itself has not been willing to budget enough money for the experiment, it is precisely those groups whose basic income would also help the situation, and in particular the basic income would therefore belong to self-employed persons, entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, self-employed persons, students and low-income workers. Another major miscalculation of this government proposal is the absence of a tax element, and precisely because basic income is not subject to progressive taxation as a result of this proposal, it follows that it cannot be extended to the whole country, i.e. it is economically unrealistic. But for it to be realistic, it should also contain a tax element, in which case the basic income would be collected as income rises from those who do not need it, and this is the model that we Greens, for example, have set out in the citizens' initiative that was presented in that Civil Info to the people. Of course, the question arises as to why the government is doing this, well, bad or incomplete proposal, and we have heard that these shortcomings are due to an excessively tight timetable set by the government and to a small budget. But these are both things that can be corrected. In order to obtain statistically strong results from the experiment, Kela's team of researchers recommended that at least 10,000 people throughout Finland be included in the experiment in the spring. It has been reported that under this timetable the Tax Administration was not involved in the experiment and therefore only half of the basic income model can be tested in the basic income test. For example, the Greens' basic income model combines tax-free basic income with higher income tax and, in turn, finances basic income that is progressively collected from those on good income. In other words, when basic income is tested with current taxation — as if basic income is tax-free — and the unemployed are not tested, the key issue of previous basic income discussions, i.e. the impact of higher marginal tax rates on employment remains untested. For example, in the green model, which is cost-neutrally feasible, everyone who earns less than EUR 50000 a year would pay the same income tax of 41%. The experiment should have middle incomes to see whether this encourages the reduction or division of work. But as has been said, this can be done in the next steps when basic income is tried out more widely. In the Government's basic income test, it is mainly clear whether, in this poor employment situation, there is any relevance to the fact that unemployment benefit will not be reduced at all, regardless of the amount of income. So the proposed experiment also tells us something: if the incentive for unemployment benefits and the red tape trap are completely removed, will employment change? Last season, the EUR 300 protection component was provided for unemployment benefit and housing support, which has increased part-time work and reduced poverty among these people, i.e. it has already been said that such an increase in the protection component can encourage people to work. In a way, it is a question of doubling these current protective parts and then seeing what happens. A government experiment may well be the first step in building a research platform and piloting the experiment. As the next step in the basic income experiment, the Greens propose increasing funding and extending the duration of the experiment from 2 to 3 years. It is essential to double the number of Finns participating in the experiment and to involve a diverse number of people in different situations. Basic income is a humane, stimulating and flexible solution to changing working life and growing income inequalities and therefore deserves a proper trial. In our own alternative budget, we Greens have put forward a timetable and funding to ensure a proper trial. We proposed an extension of the experiment from two years to three years and an increase of EUR 10 million per year. This increase could increase the number of pilots to 3,500, including self-employed workers and low-income employees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u161	Mr President! The basic income experiment is in itself a good thing, and those who have prepared the proposal have done a good job. Thanks to them. But with these resources and with this sample, that is, 2,000 people, it will not be possible to find out whether this is good or bad. Furthermore, limiting or limiting the experiment to the long-term unemployed is not in line with basic income thinking. On the other hand, it is also necessary to ask whether the Government's line is quite clear, as several legislative proposals brought to Parliament this autumn take a completely different direction with this experiment. We currently have a number of legislative proposals in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on the subject, in which, for example, the control and sanctions of the long-term unemployed are being increased. Mr President! Mr Vehviläinen's national income register is a very good thing. I hope it will happen as soon as possible. I look forward to it, and at least I agree with Mr Räsänen that perhaps this experiment should have been postponed to the start of the Incomes Register, because the real-time Incomes Register provides the basis for reconciling labour income, social benefits and taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u162	Mr President! This basic income experiment is in itself a worthwhile and good idea, and it is worth exploring. One way, of course, is to study people’s behavior in making such an experiment. However, the lack of this experiment, which has come to light many times in this Chamber, is that, as a research entity, this is not sufficiently extensive and well resourced to be able to get the full knowledge of how the basic income that comes to all people should affect their behaviour. And in this context, of course, it should also be possible to consider the tax element and also the whole package as a result of the cost of system changes and how they will then be covered. In other words, this gives a very incomplete picture of what is thought of with the whole basic income idea. After all, it is necessary to reform income security, and it must be done and acted upon. Over time, social security and income security have been built in different legal contexts, and so the understanding of social security has also diminished in many ways. At the same time, working life has changed, there is a lot of temporary work, self-employment has become more and more common, and in these situations, situations arise where social security and work coordination are being tested. Income protection should be such that it is understandable and clear, and also that there will be no such drop-outs. But with this study, Mr President, I do not believe that the final answers will yet be received.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u163	Mr President! This basic income, or if it has previously been referred to as "citizens' pay", is of course a bit difficult in the traditional Finnish Lutheran work ethic, considering that money cannot come from the wall and the one who does not work should not eat bread either. This is the traditional way of thinking in Finland and how I have thought. But then there is the question that has changed in working life, and that fact is, in a certain way, forced to recognise that employment relations have been fragmented and unemployment has become such a state that hardly anyone will claim that it will ever be finally removed, or at least in the foreseeable future. That is why I personally see that such experiments, specifically in order to overcome unemployment, are valuable. In other words, if this can reduce unemployment, encourage the unemployed to work, dismantle incentive traps, then of course this is to be welcomed. Whatever you find out about it, I'm sure that information will be useful. The basic thing is that Finland has a very complex and expensive system of social security and employment. It itself already employs a huge number of people, people with high wages, to watch over the unemployed in Finland, how they find employment, how they receive subsidies. There are dozens of different subsidies. When examining this experiment, it was necessary to reflect the impact of dozens of different subsidies on the livelihoods of these people and the fact that they did not lose these subsidies when they entered or left this experiment. The dismantling and clearing up of that system is also one of the things that this experiment can take forward. In that sense, I am not surprised that from the Socialist side there will be the greatest opposition to this, because they have largely built this system with all its twists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u164	Mr President! Working life is in the face of a major transformation. More and more people’s jobs and livelihoods are made up of small pieces from there and here. The major challenge for our social security system is how to change it in the face of a major change in this work. The so-called sharing economy is one of the phenomena associated with the major transformation of working life and digitalisation that challenge our social security. The distribution economy can spread to almost any sector, and at the same time it inevitably shocks the activities of states, municipalities and businesses. They will therefore have to consider how to change their activities as a result. Challenges arise in many respects. From an individual's point of view, social security is the most problematic in terms of both the sharing economy and other changing working life. How to solve a situation where income is made up of small sums of money here and there without a job? How do social services and current transfers fit in? In the distribution economy, neither unemployment benefit nor pension provision accumulates for the self-sustaining person. We need a whole new kind of safety net. Should the accumulation of pensions, for example, be removed from the employment relationship, or would a citizen’s salary or basic income be one solution to this? Mr President! Changing working life with new phenomena will change our society dramatically, whether we like it or not. Society must therefore remain involved in this development, and an essential part of this is the open examination of the social security system. We Social Democrats are not in love with this current system either. It is clear that it needs changes, but they must be done with thought and study. It is therefore good that the government has also launched the implementation of the National Incomes Register as part of the key project for the digitisation of public services. The real-time Incomes Register provides the basis for future coordination of labour income, social benefits and taxation. This will create opportunities for future development of social security, among other things. The government's plan to experiment with basic income is, on the other hand, incomplete in terms of the objectives of the basic income. In practice, the protection component of EUR 560 is now being tested in unemployment security, which also has no impact on income tax. There are 20 million people in use plus Kela benefits, and the sample size is 2000 persons. Such a limited experiment does not properly achieve results that could be significant in terms of research. An experiment as a torso cannot produce sustainable results that apply to the whole population, which could lead to further progress in legislation. As such, the introduction of basic income would cost between EUR 10 and 15 billion if taken to the level of the entire population. Of course, it is understandable that such a large amount has not been used. The Government seeks to implement a culture of experimentation, which in itself may be all right, as long as information based on experience is provided to support decision-making. But if these resources do not bring about a proper trial setting, what good is the experiment actually doing? Sometimes it feels like the experiment is an end in itself for the government. As such, experimenting with basic income is to be welcomed, and we appreciate the experts who have prepared it, but now it seems that a proper experiment has been made impossible. And I still wonder what the ultimate purpose of this experiment is in the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u165	Mr President! A few more reflections on this government proposal. First of all, it must be said that we are certainly all in favour of experiments in which people move from unemployment to work, and in so far as this basic idea of this basic result is concerned, that in the different situations of people's lives, our social security would not be broken and that there would be no incentive traps which would then prevent us from going to different jobs. But, Mr President, a few things: First of all, I was thinking here when I read the government's proposal, which is what this pilot scheme is about in terms of employment. When it comes to the government's proposal and the government's policy of today's day, this basic income experiment must be related to the government's current and recent performances, with which the government has brought a variety of weakenings and blackmails to the unemployed, and at the same time, through this basic income experiment, it opens the field in a completely different direction. For example, what is the role of the employment authorities in this basic income experiment, and what is the role of these employment authorities in the long run? Is it possible that we are looking for a whole new kind of employment field or for the forms of activity of the employment authorities, for example, when it says here: "Basic income primarily affects the work of the employment authorities. Basic income is paid free of charge without an unemployed person being obliged to register with the Employment and Economic Development Office or to apply for full-time employment?" Then it also says: "However, the recipient of the basic income may refuse or resign from employment-promoting services and training without being granted unwarranted deadlines or qualifying periods. This also means that a person receiving basic income may refuse the work offered without the current sanctions. Moreover, the recipient of basic income is not obliged to draw up, revise or comply with the employment or activation plan and does not need to be available to the TE Office." When you look at the way the government is working at the moment, it is doing exactly the opposite, it is tightening up the livelihoods of the unemployed, it is also tightening up the contacts with the employment services and the like, so I would now also ask what the ultimate objective of this government is in relation to today's policy in relation to this basic income experiment. Now, of course, it is a good thing that this issue should come to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and that we are genuinely able to address this issue, among other things, but this leaves a number of issues to be considered as to what the government is genuinely seeking with this experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u166	Mr President! The Government has now submitted to Parliament a proposal for a basic income experiment in accordance with the Government Programme. There are undoubtedly both good and bad aspects of both basic income and this experiment. The Finnish social security system is, admittedly, complex and rigid. A well-functioning basic income would make it possible to cut red tape and simplify the system. At times, job creation is hindered by incentive traps, which at best could be eliminated or at least lowered by basic income. Everything must be done to promote employment. This basic income experiment is also an indication of the experimental culture promoted by the government, which provides factual information for the preparation of the law. Mr President! At least in part the negative aspects of basic income include, on the one hand, the loss of the consideration of social security and, on the other hand, the fact that, if basic income were to be made sufficiently high, a form of livelihood covering the cost of living would, at the same time, lead to a significant increase in central government expenditure. Indeed, this experiment lacks a tax element due to practical difficulties, and in practice the basic income would require a tightening of the pace. In addition, there would still be a need for additional support for a wide range of population groups. Therefore, basic income would not necessarily lead to a significant reduction in means or other red tape. Mr President! Promoting a culture of experimentation is in itself a good thing, and this is also the case with regard to basic income. However, the government proposal states that it is difficult to draw definitive conclusions. So it is unlikely that we will be able to expect changes of a large scale, at least quickly, but hopefully this experiment will bring out new information that will at least allow gradual improvements in our social security system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u167	Mr President! A number of questions have been raised here as to whether sampling is sufficient. Well, first of all, those who have had to read social sciences know that the size of an adequate sample is not constant, but varies depending on the need for information, what they want to find out. If we were to think that this is now an attempt to find out the basic income model for the whole population, then 2000 is quite a small sample, but that is not what we are trying to do. And, in my view, in relation to the questions raised in this proposal, the sampling is quite sufficient and justified. Now we are trying to lift the protective part of unemployment security and remove the threat of sanctions. These are the two things that are now changing factually for a particular group of unemployed people. It is not a question of basic income; it is a question of a different philosophy behind unemployment security, a very welcome change of course in relation to developments in recent years and even tomorrow's development, in which one government after another presents one sanctioning measure after another. We have quite a lot of research that there are no ways in Finnish discussion space to talk about the unemployed in a positive way. There are two ways of talking about the unemployed: either the guilty way in which the unemployed are suspected, he is suspected of lack of control, laziness, bad lifestyles, abuse of social security, and so on; or the excuse for the unemployed, which seeks to show that the unemployed meet standards of middle-class, good citizenship, even if they are now unemployed. The unemployed person himself is not in the voice, the experience of the unemployed is not in the voice of the Finnish debate. This way of speaking in society has been the central reason why we have had such a labour policy which seems natural to impose sanctions on one unemployed person after another and which sees no problem with the fact that the change in unemployment security from change becomes increasingly complex and difficult to manage and leads to the fact that, from the point of view of the unemployed, it is extremely difficult to anticipate it. If this experiment leads to questioning or even dismantling this thought structure, then it has definitely paid for itself and already brought itself back. I firmly believe that people who are not constantly suspected and blocked by the neck are doing much more than people who are forced to guard against every step. And a lot of social psychologists think the same thing. What is the danger of this reform and why we have been talking so much in this Chamber today about whether to test basic income or not to try basic income now is that if, from the point of view of the basic income objective, we get incorrect, incomplete or misleading results from this experiment and we think that this experiment is a basic income experiment, then it may lead to the debate on basic income in this country being frozen for years and being returned to it only sometime after the next generation of politicians, when long ago we have been squeezed past us in these more advanced models of social security and transfers. That is why I think it is so essential to use their real names and not those euphemisms that mislead and perhaps spoil the usability of a good experiment in themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u168	Mr President! I am very pleased that the basic income is progressing and the experiment will now begin during this term of government. Basic income is one of the things I myself have been thinking about, and I remember how a group of friends and student politics have also been discussing basic income or civic wages. That social security reform is indeed needed. Here, however, you see the activity of this government — some speak, others do, this government has taken action. Of course, it cannot be avoided that there will be all kinds of criticism. The opposition tries in every way to find, some find more and some less, bad about it, but it does seem like a good experiment. Social security is not, of course, intended to pass a person away, but to create security in a bad situation in life and to make it possible to live a decent life and to make it possible for a person to get on his feet from that bad situation, in general terms. Basic income, or whatever it is now called, is one possible model to dismantle incentive traps. So it is very good that the government will thus use the experiment to help find this best model in Finland. And I do not believe that we still need to lock ourselves in this model, as it were, but this is an experiment, and it will certainly provide valuable information. I hope that, even after the experiment, this matter will progress quickly and vigorously, so that a larger sampling group can then be obtained and, at some point, even put into action. However, savings can be made here by cutting red tape and simplifying social security. It is important that the taxation of earned income is fair in this respect, in other words, in situations where there is unemployment and where it is necessary to consider whether to accept work. The tax burden on workers should therefore be reduced by this model, not increased. This cannot be about increasing taxation, although it is clear that it is good to have some kind of progress in order to get a working combination out of this. What I think should be taken into account now, while this model is being set in motion, is, above all, the economic impact that this is supposed to have, in addition to what is now the empirical evidence of how well those who have entered the experiment will be employed as a peer group. This can thus be estimated as having an impact on the availability of labour, in practice the labour market is accelerating, especially in the low-wage sectors, because it is precisely part-time and temporary work that can be received. I hope that this experiment will now give such a positive impetus to this issue and bring forward this criticism constructively, see how the experiment is going, and then follow-up measures will be taken. I am very pleased that this experiment is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u169	Madam President! To comment on some of the previous speeches: As far as employment is concerned, the government has the ultimate objective of reducing unemployment and increasing employment, not more complicated. This experiment is not linked in any way to other employment measures and measures to improve their efficiency, but rather to the way in which the basic income model works and other activities will continue to be sidelined until perhaps the system changes. These things don't have a direct connection. I cannot help but take up the previous speech by Mr Räsänen, who suspected that a co-worker over there might be jealous of a person working alongside him for an experiment. I hope that this speech was not quite serious to the end. Is this the solidarity of today's workers? We would be jealous of a fellow worker who is going to take the test, while, at the same time, people are working next to us for 9 euros. Is that not a much better way for the government than for the old-fashioned management of employment in the SDP? Mr President! Mr Savio rightly pointed out the problem that basic income does not necessarily mean the elimination of all subsidies. This should therefore be taken into account in the course of this experiment and collected information on which subsidies may be removed and which cannot be removed and learn from these findings. In the past, Mr Juvonen also highlighted the different dimensions of living costs across the country. After all, they are very different in different parts of the country, in the capital region than in Kainuu or South Karelia, and in the course of the experiment it is appropriate to monitor the impact of this issue in terms of the amount of basic income. After all, the opportunities for the unemployed to find employment in different parts of the country are very different.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u170	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u171	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the Health Insurance Act and the Act on rehabilitation benefits and rehabilitation benefits of the Social Insurance Institution. According to the proposal, the calculation rule for the amount of sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance would be changed. The minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance and rehabilitation allowance in vocational rehabilitation would be increased to the level of the guaranteed pension in order to promote the employment of persons capable of part-time work and ensure rehabilitation. The proposal also proposes that the amendment to the law on the payment of the medical allowance in public premises for private health care services be extended until the end of 2018. Mr President! According to the Government Programme of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, the social security system will be clarified to encourage and promote the employment of part-time workers. The aim of the proposal is to support and encourage part-time young people who are able to work and those who are not able to work part-time to participate in vocational rehabilitation, study and employment, and to prevent transitions to disability pension. The level increase in the youth rehabilitation allowance and the minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance in vocational rehabilitation is estimated to increase the number of young people and non-occupational adults in the rehabilitation start to apply for education and other vocational rehabilitation, thus increasing their chances of finding employment in the open labour market. So this government proposal sees those who are able to work part-time, sees the young people and the need for what they have so that they can move forward in their studies, among other things. Very supportive and good government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u172	Mr President! It is a real shame that the Minister is not here when we have many social and health issues here in the referral debate — it would be good if he were to hear our different ideas and views. That it's a real pain in the ass. Mr President! The aim of this bill is to amend the rule of calculation of sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance so that, up to the current threshold of EUR 30000 per year, they are determined by 70% and, for a period exceeding that, by 20%. This also applies to partial sickness allowance but does not apply to parental allowance. Up to this limit of EUR 30000 per year, the daily allowance would be paid up to 70% of the third hundredths of the labour income found in taxation. A part of the daily allowance exceeding the income limit would be raised by 20% without a ceiling. The saving effect of the change in the income limit and replacement rate of sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance is estimated at EUR 25 million per year and EUR 18 million in 2017. This saving does not affect state expenditure, it reduces the employer's health insurance contribution and the daily allowance fee for employees and entrepreneurs. This proposal will improve the position of young people who are able to work part-time: for example, it is also possible to grant rehabilitation allowance for the period of basic education, and Kela will be obliged to find out the right of the applicant to compensation for school supplies and travel expenses in connection with the application for rehabilitation allowance for a young person. Mr President! It's good, but it's also critical. The government is now cutting off earnings-related health insurance again. There have been several surgeries, and the whole package of health insurance has already been difficult to understand. We should note that earnings-related daily allowances are financed by employers' and employees' contributions, so the savings do not apply to the state. The current cut will again focus on sickness and rehabilitation allowances, which were cut from the beginning of this year so that the ceiling on annual earnings qualifying for 70% compensation was reduced to 35% thereafter. The upper income limit, 56000, was left unchanged, the lower cut was unduly directed at the average wage and salary earners. Mr President! The great concern here is that our aim should be that people should first try to be on sickness allowance, but this government proposal will do exactly the opposite. The allocation of savings to the rehabilitation allowance can affect the incentive of rehabilitation. These cuts have led to an increasing increase in the disability pension compared to sickness allowance. Reducing the level of sickness allowance also increases the pressure to review priority regulations, and this is not justified in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u173	Mr President! The good thing about this bill is that there will be improvements in the rehabilitation of young people. Let us hope that these young people who need rehabilitation will be reached as early as possible. But the bad thing about this is that the government is again cutting off earnings-related health insurance. The surgery is directed at sickness and rehabilitation allowances, which have already been cut in early this year, and, as Mr Kiljunen said, there is a risk that the weakening of the rehabilitation allowance will also weaken the willingness to receive rehabilitation. The disability pension is increasingly better than the rehabilitation allowance, and this is a bad trend. It is therefore difficult to understand why this change is being made, since there are no implications for central government finances, but the negative impact on individual citizens can be considerable. Rehabilitation should always be the most attractive option, not disability pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u174	Mr President! It is very sad that the government is again cutting off earnings-related health insurance. There have been several surgeries, and the whole package of health insurance must already be difficult to understand. The surgery now being presented will again focus on sickness and rehabilitation allowances, which were already being cut from the beginning of this year. The previous cut was unduly targeted at middle-income employees. When implemented, these cuts in sickness and rehabilitation allowances make it difficult for wage and salary earners to earn a living and allocate them differently to different income categories. In addition, their impact on central government savings is non-existent. And that's why I feel like such a fool to be doing these kind of performances. Reducing the income limits and the replacement rate for daily allowances also weakens the incentive for the rehabilitation of the Social Insurance Institution. This government proposal is difficult to accept. Of course, it is good that improvements are now being made to improve the rehabilitation of young people, and for that I thank the government. It's always good to take care of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u175	Mr President! In this Government proposal, the minimum amount of the rehabilitation allowance and the training allowance in vocational rehabilitation will be increased to the level of the guarantee pension in order to promote the employment of persons capable of part-time work and ensure rehabilitation. The aim of the youth rehabilitation allowance is to encourage young people who are able to work and who are disabled to study and pursue work, and the rehabilitation allowance for young people is always a priority in relation to the disability pension of a person under the age of 20. An invalidity pension may be granted to a person under the age of 20 only after his or her chances of vocational rehabilitation have been determined. Mr President! It is really important for society to have a broad focus on part-time working ability to think about the resources that people have. It is really important that disability pension is not automation for any young person and it is the easiest way to get a basic income, because work is a really big part of our identity for all of us, an important part of the creation of self-esteem and, above all, an extremely important thing so that we do not get out of society and this normal life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u176	Mr President! This is a good part of the government's proposal for young people, because it now involves improvements in the rehabilitation of young people. Of course it must be said that what we will have in the social and health care system is very important when it comes to getting those young people who have a disease or a disability who are easily excluded from the labour market in time for rehabilitation. But the weakening that is now taking place is in a series of these previous surgeries. With regard to earnings-related sickness insurance and now rehabilitation allowances, we are again picking up, cutting, cutting from which point. The importance of earnings-related sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance is slowly becoming blurred. After all, they are very important, encouraging elements for people to be able to get back to work and that the level of income does not collapse in such a way that it will detract individuals and families even from income support. Here we are making different income levels of such solutions, which are, I must say, quite difficult for people even to follow, but the fact is that the benefits of middle-income people, earnings-related daily allowances for middle-income employees, then become weaker. In the past, there has been a great deal of support here from the government for the cuts being targeted so that they hit high incomes, but in this case the cut does not really hit these smooth-handed people, but rather seems to me to be directed at the average-income wage earners, and I do not think that we can go any further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u177	Mr President! Mr Haatainen gave a very good speech. It really worries me that every week the government imports such presentations that cut off either low incomes or middle incomes, but any kind of total impact assessment is not imported. It is very incriminating when it comes to these social benefits or various benefits that affect people’s ability to maintain their health. It is very unfortunate that these overall evaluations are not being carried out. That would be very necessary, and I would encourage the government to carry out an evaluation, even at this stage, of all these cuts and nicks. It has to be said that it is precisely the improvement of the ability of people with part-time work or rehabilitation that is what should be done, and thank you for that. But the problem is that the left hand does not know what the right one is doing, and at the same time, for example, next year the government will cut vocational education so much that the threat is that 18,000 young people will then be out of education in the next joint application. And that means precisely those young people who have such a low average that they do not have access to vocational training. They are quickly the young people who are then threatened with exclusion and will soon no longer be able to work. I don't think we can afford this as a society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u178	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u179	Mr President! Here again, there is a good example of how many times it is very difficult to renovate systems so as not to tear more holes at the same time. And although, in principle, I am very positive about the transfer of the basic part of income support to Kela, there are still a number of open questions that must be taken very seriously. This bill draws attention to the basic solution that has been taken to ensure that all income claims go first to Kela and then to supplementary and preventive income support, which would continue to be sought from municipalities, as if they were then sent from Kela. It has been noted that this does not work in all contexts, because Kela lives in office and income support is sometimes granted as a matter of urgency, even in the middle of the night. It is commendable that this has been noted, but I would also like to highlight situations which are not yet addressed in this proposal and where this basic solution is also very problematic. In other words, when a person is in a situation where he or she already knows in advance that there is no need for basic income support, but only for preventive or supplementary income support, even in these situations, we will spin the papers in full first through Kela before they come to the municipality for processing, which significantly increases the steps and naturally slows the process down. This is a situation in which we are quite certain that there is no need for basic income support, for example as regards income support for funeral expenses. The person who has already died probably will not need the food money, we know that, and yet the additional income support for funeral expenses should be applied for first by submitting the documents to Kela — if I have understood this plan correctly. In my opinion, it is positive and wonderful that the present proposal seeks to dismantle the mechanism whereby people's papers are transferred to municipalities as if automatically when a person does not want his income support needs to be dealt with in municipalities and has not expressed his wish to apply for preventive or supplementary income support. We have many small municipalities and may well have situations in which, for example, a person does not want the authorities of his own municipality to know about his own financial situation or, for some other reason, does not want the money that might be available there. Respect for people’s autonomy even when they are income support customers is only a positive thing and a merit for this government proposal. In the same context, however, we need to consider how to resolve the fact that people are at all aware that they are entitled to preventive or supplementary income support if they are applied for it entirely from a different body from the one they are used to applying for basic income support and if there are no resources in this instance for the same kind of social guidance that has traditionally been attempted to be regarded as part of the process of granting income support in municipalities. Well, okay, with the introduction of an electronic procedure, it is possible to apply for income support in many municipalities so that you do not meet any social professionals. But most people are trying to have someone there who is checking out the overall situation as well. And at least for the time being, Kela’s plans do not answer. Nor will this reform solve the most serious problems with income support linked to the bureaucratic jungle that is required to apply for income support. I myself made a second self-correction request today for the same decision that had denied a person income support because the official had read the negatives on the account tape as a plus: the person had an account with a ton of negatives, and he had considered that there was a ton of money here, and he flattened a negative decision. And there's a lot of these, there's a lot of them. The applications are long, they may be dozens of pages, and despite that, the security that you will then get your affairs right and your basic security out of there is in no way certain. As a result, I have been contacted quite a lot by alarmed people that what happens now when Kela moves, what happens. Then I will try calling the Kela authorities to see if anyone knows anything, and no one knows anything at all, and this is just a few months to change. People’s concerns are perfectly justified, because most of them have experienced the hard way that things can go terribly wrong. They can remain without support, or support, as in this case, which I was dealing with today, can stretch for weeks from what they had originally expected, and then there will be no money for that time. That is why this information from the outside should also work. At least I hope that there in Kela the specs are already in order. Another major problem with income support is that there is a very strong austerity pressure on discretionary items in municipalities, and this has been a problem for us in the entire income support system as long as I have been dealing with it in some way, at least since the beginning of the 1990s. However, social workers are bitter that, in situations where they see clearly that the role of families or individuals could be helped with small amounts of money, small discretionary subsidies, this cannot be done because the guidelines on the management of the municipal finances are so strict that there is no room for discretionary workers. That is what we must resolve — if not in this context, then in another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u180	Mr President! First of all, on the basis of this government proposal, people will be able to apply for basic income support from Kela, and then this supplementary and discretionary income support will be applied for from Kela. This problem, which relates to Kela, is quite genuine, as Mr Kontula has just pointed out. Firstly, in Kela the situation is such that in future these decisions will be taken centrally at a number of locations, resulting in a lack of real knowledge of the population base and the region in the municipalities. In practice, it may pose the risk of creating a situation in which people are seeking basic income support and their life situation are not identified in Kela and then either the risk of exclusion or unemployment or mental health problems or other problems are not identified. That is why Kela must now also strongly develop the identifiers that identify these people in a different life situation, so that we do not have this basic income support to keep away from people who do not receive the service, social services for which they are entitled and for what they need. The second thing that is also absolutely important for Kela is that, as has been said here, these Kela applications and income support applications are extremely complex, multi-page and they are not in any way unambiguous and clear. And for this reason also the guidance related to these applications, the advice must be secured either at Kela's local offices or elsewhere. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : The representative could move to the speaking room. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u183	Mr President! It is good that this basic income support payment prepared for last season is now being implemented for Kela. Kela has been well prepared for the change, and the transfer is probably going well. That is what we have heard in committee. Indeed, new ways of reaching and supporting customers must now be developed, because these complementary and preventive income support policies should be reformed in order to make it a better tool for social work. Now that the customer's autonomy and customer status are strengthened and freedom of choice is increased as to whether or not the customer wants to apply for supplementary or preventive income support, this is a risk for weaker groups of customers, and it is therefore important to develop those new ways of working. However, we must remember that municipalities will continue to play an important role in this complementary and preventive income support. In that sense, it is good that the resources of social workers are now being released from this right social work, away from the mere granting of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u184	Mr President! This transfer of basic income support to Kela is something that I myself have long been pursuing, and I consider it to be a very good thing in itself, because it makes it easier for people who are entitled to the basic part of income support, who receive a benefit through Kela but who do not know how to apply for that income support for one reason or another. The position of these people now becomes easier with this bill. I would like to thank the government warmly for taking forward this issue, which we too have been working very hard on during the last parliamentary term. But it is quite clear that when the social security system is complex in Finland, the world will certainly not be completed with this bill because income support is very closely linked to, for example, how and where and how much housing allowance is paid. In other words, when Kela’s general housing allowance is often not sufficient to pay the real rent, people will have to apply for the rest of the housing allowance from the social welfare office, that is to say, from the municipality, and when there is no subjective right to receive the entire amount of the remaining rent from that income support, then what they should absolutely ensure at this point is that citizens will not be treated in a very unequal way in the future in this income support housing allowance, depending on where they live in Finland. I would like to ask for a public debate on the amount of housing allowance where and on what basis it will be determined in the future through the municipality. I am referring, for example, to the debate that the outgoing Director General of Kela, Hyssälä, has presented in public,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u185	Mr President! According to this government proposal, the granting and payment of basic income support will be transferred to the Social Insurance Institution, and this has also been discussed in Parliament for a very long time. In the future, Kela is responsible for organising basic income support. Kela is responsible for all tasks related to implementation, counselling and discretion related to basic income support. The municipality is responsible for providing supplementary and preventive income support and for the plan to reduce the basic element. The purpose of this bill is not to change the level of income support or the criteria for granting it. Here, Mr Kontula, you said that you had been in contact with Kela and wondered if everything was ready for this great change. Kela's Annual Activity Report and also the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has often told us that Kela has had a Income Support 2017 project since autumn 2014 and it has progressed on schedule. There has been a lot of work to ensure that this change is smooth, and Kela also announces on its own website that there is still an electronic service and also telephone services in the customer service. They also tell us that customers will then be informed in good time about these possible changes. But it is never necessarily so easy to do, so it is certainly still important to provide information and guidance and then to remember that not everyone has access to that electronic service. Perhaps this is also something that has also been said about how difficult it is, after all, to apply for income support that would be a slightly lower threshold to apply for. The number of households in 2013 was 247,000 and 93 per cent of them in the area of basic income support, i.e. a very important issue in that respect. I'm glad it's progressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u186	Mr President! The purpose of this government proposal is therefore to supplement the legislation already adopted, on the basis of which the granting and payment of basic income support is transferred to Kela, and then to include some entirely new provisions. But, in fact, Mr President, I asked for this speech because I listened with joy to Mr Kiljunen's expert concern, which we all share, that genuinely, when this basic income support grant is transferred to Kela, it will be better, more comprehensively and in the whole of Finland, to create practices that we recognise people at special risk — and the young long-term unemployed are indeed such a group of people — who will not only benefit from the facilitation of this kind of application process, and that they will also genuinely be able to direct other necessary support. At the moment, this situation is not very uniform in our municipalities in Finland, and that is why, among other things, this transfer of basic income support to Kela has been intended to contribute to ensuring that we get good practices throughout Finland. Mr President! The fact that, as Mr Juvonen has pointed out in his speech, there are many people in Finland who, because of their own situation in life, would be entitled to income support but who are either unable to do so or who are afraid of stigmatisation do not, in a way, apply for that support. Therefore, this transfer of income support to Kela is very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u187	Mr President! This is indeed a proposal which is now a continuation of the decisions of the previous government, and the transfer of income support to Kela will certainly reduce the fact that people are not seeking it, because now it is obvious that this under-use exists, that not all people who are entitled to income support are able to receive it and are not within it. This is, of course, a welcome and good thing to deal with the problem of poverty. But then, as far as this preventive income support is concerned, when it remains in the municipalities, this vision of the future is that it is necessary to determine what will be in these future large areas of social and health care — the regions are being discussed in the government statement — and yet here again there is a system and administrative change in this respect, if these things go to the province. This also touches on the question of how employment administration and employment policies are managed, what roles it will have with municipalities and future regions, and when these are very closely linked, this issue has not yet been fully addressed for the future, but we are still faced with these administrative follow-up measures in relation to the wars.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u188	Mr President! In order not to be unclear, I would say that I very much welcome the transfer of the basic part of the income support to Kela. Kela’s practices are much more humane than the current procedures for applying for income support due to the fact that there are many other population groups than those applying for income support. Then there is this regional justice. Yes, it's important. In the capital region, every poor person knows that a poor person should live in Munka, because there is the least queue and the easiest money there is. And this should not be the case, but when it comes to basic human security, it should be as uniform as possible, regardless of where a person happens to live. But there is also sufficient information about the process of smooth change for the people most affected by the reform and, given the feedback I have received, it is not enough at the moment. It is clear that things will change. For the majority of people receiving income support, things are changing because we now have such different application practices in municipalities, a different variety — I know when people from different municipalities ask for help to apply for income support — that if they are harmonised, we inevitably have hundreds of municipalities with which the situation changes in some way. I am afraid, even if it is hoped that under-use through it would decrease, that Kela is not as stigmatising as social welfare and that these basic data are better held there, and this in the long run is assumed to reduce under-use, that at least at the beginning it may also increase under-use, that people are not on the map as to how these subsidies are applied for. There are a lot of people in income support clients who find it really difficult to apply for and who find it difficult to change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u189	Mr President! I have no choice but to bring to an end something which has come to my mind from Mrs Kontula's speech. You have made good speeches and raised the issue of how much contact we parliamentarians get from people. Sometimes it would be interesting to calculate the number of contacts that come just in connection with these, whether it is seeking income support or any social matter in which a person needs help — yes, and yet you said that all around Finland you will receive those contacts, and I will. I always wonder that there should be much more knowledge and know-how, that every person should be able to advise on where to get it. Even in the light of this issue, we have much to do in this society, that we can communicate information, how we act in what situation, and advice and help. I'm sure we'll have a large group of people coming up with this, and we'll each get the calls ourselves, where to go and what to do. Such a role as a listener of the kingdom or a service phone, to which a person can call and ask, how would I act now, in my opinion, we still lack, and it is not a social call, but someone who can then get that help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u190	Mr President! I had to ask for the floor, which was now opened up for me by Mr Juvosen. It is a terrible pity that the government, with its various proposals, is increasing the number of people who are long-term dependent on income support because of cuts in minimum incomes and cuts in housing allowance and so on. The number of people who are dependent on income support is increasing, and even if I could support this kind of national listener, telephone caller, it does not help those people who really need money for essential medicines, for example. In other words, if you receive income support, you can receive a prescription to a pharmacist, for example, in connection with the grant of income support, but if you cannot apply for income support or apply to a social welfare office, then you cannot receive a prescription. It is precisely for this reason that it is very unwise of the government to cut down on, for example, the reimbursement of medicines, which we are now presenting in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This government proposal, too, cuts the most from the lowest income groups — the elderly, the poor, the people with a great deal of suffering — and this is a very irresponsible policy. So, that's another one of those assessments I'm calling for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u191	Mr President! Yes, it is a real shame now — it should not be provoked, but if it is done, it must be answered — that I do not think that these contacts have decreased this period. Yes, there were them last season, and yes, there was child support in the cutter and there was a lot of power, and there are contacts all the time. In my opinion, people's distress in this world has not diminished. I did not want to stress this point in my speech, but rather to bear in mind that it is good that we are answering the phone and that we are trying to help those people who are in distress. In other words, I do not believe that any government is so innocent that people are not in need. Difficult decisions are always made, and they always touch someone, and the person who is affected will contact — and that is quite right — and ask for advice on how to proceed. So this was really my idea, and I also wanted to thank Anna Kontula. I know you've been doing a lot of things, we've discussed this before. That was the intention of my speech, but I must now remind you that the pot is pounding the pot and the black side is on both sides.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u192	Mr President! I did not provoke, but I am taking this opportunity to talk about how important it is for people to have an overall view of things: why are they doing it and what is actually being done? On Monday, I was given the opportunity to speak to the mental health rehabilitation group in Siilinjärvi and I told them what we were doing in the social welfare reform. There one person said how you think that in such a situation you could save 3 billion euros while our population demographic development is what it is that Finland greys very much. Then I took the opportunity to say that we are not saving EUR 3 billion, but that we are shaping the structures in such a way that we will have a better capacity in the future to respond to social and health services of all ages and to care for them and to provide assistance from a single door, and that we are not saving, but are making changes in order to allow the cost factor to be adjusted so that the expected cost of EUR 3 billion does not increase so much each year, but that it can be broken down. Giving people the resources to take care of themselves, adapting social and health care services in such a way that we in basic health care and basic social services are able to provide timely services in such a way that the need for special services, whether in social or health care, is less. This is what social reform is all about: better services, at the right time and people's empowerment take more responsibility for their well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u193	Mr President! I would like to add that Finland has already received a remark that we have a level of basic security that is too low. Nevertheless, the government sitting is cutting off the lowest income, all minimum benefits and all indices are being cut and frozen. Yes, this is a policy that was not made last season. It has to be said now, and many poverty researchers have also said that this was not the case during the last period. The poverty of the poorest is now deepened and prolonged. It is, of course, a good thing that the index of income support is not affected, but it is a stupid poverty policy and a stupid employment policy, that the number of people who are dependent on income support is increased, and that is irresponsible, that should not be done. I would also like to say to Mr Juvonen that it is not the case that the people most in need of support will be able to call here for us or for anyone else. It's not like that. Those people may not even be able to go to the bread line, and that is why we should take care of these minimum benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u194	Mr President! Here, ear cream was given to the government’s policies and their false arguments. I would like to remind you, however, that during the last term of government we had the 100,000 or so unemployed in this country. The medicines that Finland was given, even though it was seen that Finland was diving deeper and deeper, were not right. I think it is justified that this government has drawn up a government programme which realistically recognises the need for a change of direction, makes painful decisions, justifies them, and I believe that this will also give the people the right to do so. The fact that people are creating jobs is, of course, the basic idea that we have the ultimate opportunity to provide basic income, social security and health services to people. This must be seen as the best safeguard for us to continue to have the idea of a Nordic welfare state with safety nets for those who are not as strong as we are healthy and working.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u195	Mr President! I mean, it's not like it doesn't burn in pieces. If we look at the previous period, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, you said there were no index freezes, there were no cuts. I guess there were surgeries in there, too, if I don't remember all wrong. And there's no point in thinking that anyone here is living in a cotton ball, thinking that they're the only ones who're in trouble who'll contact us and call us on the phone. Yes, in my life I have encountered people who are in very bad shape and who are disadvantaged and I know what is the fate of a person who does not even have the cell phone to call. There's no cell phone. What do you call if you don't have a cell phone? So in that sense this conversation now goes this way a bit like talking about the subject next to it. We are only talking about one speech, which made this debate a reality, and I just wanted to say that more and more Members of Parliament are getting contacts, and I wonder whether there is a problem in society when they cannot ask where applications are sent or where they can get the right help. Of course we will, too. That is what this was all about. But I repeat that every government has made its own cuts, and that is not where you, ladies and gentlemen, will be clear by saying that you have not cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u196	Mr President! In that sense, Mr Juvonen is quite right that the last period was cut, but last season our aim was to balance the state finances, that it was done fairly. We also took decisions to improve primary social security, including labour market support and basic daily allowance, and to raise the level of people's dependency on income support rather than increase. It was found from various studies that although cuts were made during the last period, inequalities in society decreased during the last period. Now, however, the opposite is the case. There were also cuts to child benefit, but at the same time care was taken to ensure that the taxation of the lowest income families compensated for the fact that the cutter did not affect them as well as good income. Mr President! The problem is now, if we talk about income support in general and about the actions of this government, that it has been truly unfortunate and unforgivable, that the government has systematically cut priority benefits and taken income support as a form of permanent social security. In other words, systematically, when we receive proposals from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we can ask there as the first questions: how much does this increase income support expenditure or how much this increases income support customers? When income support should be temporary, it should be encouraging in such a way that people come out of it, it should be such that it is temporary, and rather, people should be sought through social work and income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u197	Mr President! I think that this debate is in order and is very necessary. I would not belittle the fact that, for once in this Chamber, we are talking about the poorest people and those who are specifically involved in this last-minute livelihood. I think it is very necessary. What I myself was talking about was that during the last term of government, unlike during this term of government, it was not cut off from the minimum benefits, but in the attempt to make a policy to reduce income differentials and reduce inequality, it was always taken into account in every proposal that the government made. The Government's programme had already included the fact that when submitting legislative proposals or budget proposals, the government should assess the impact of the proposals made on income differentials, and so it did. And it affected the policies that were made. Last season, income differentials were not increased. During the last term, the government period was started in such a way as to increase the minimum basic security and, at the same time, to increase income support and housing support for these people with the lowest incomes. This is the kind of package and package that was decided at the beginning of the season. I do not think it is particularly expert that Mr Juvonen is using the example of child supplement freezes here. I do not know if you know, but child benefit is a benefit paid to all families with children under the age of 17, regardless of the combined income level of the family. In other words, I would not go into the same sentence on child benefit cuts and then the fact that the government is systematically cutting off all those who receive the lowest minimum security during this period, with the exception of this income support,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u198	Mr President! Despite the cuts made in the last period, the increase in poverty and inequality for the first time in more than 20 years, if not more than 25 years. Until then, poverty and inequality had gradually increased, but decisions were taken during the last period, which brought this negative development to a halt. And now this positive development has changed again. So we are now making decisions that will increase inequalities that will increase poverty. In the last period, there was also an impact assessment of legislative proposals. If the impact assessment showed in the bill that poverty and inequality were increasing, compensatory measures were also taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u199	Mr President! This conversation has confused me a little. I understand that concern about income support, usually incomes, people's livelihoods, is very well-founded and well-founded, but if we go down the road, as it seems to be a little bit of the mood in this Chamber right now, that everything has been cut and everything is going backwards, then I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that if we want people to have a real, real livelihood, we will have to turn the tide to people getting jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u202	Mr President! Just as Mr Hoskonen said earlier, the concern about people's livelihood is justified. Of course it is very positive that the number of unemployed people in this country has fallen. Today we have just learned that we have 21,000 fewer unemployed than a year ago at this time. To Mr Kiljunen here, it is of course the case that this has already been the result of this system of income support, the social system, of a kind of support jungle, in several government terms. That is why I am confused in this debate that, when we discussed basic income earlier, this basic income experiment was attacked quite strongly, for example, on the lines of the SDP. On the other hand, I see that through this basic income experiment it is precisely the knowledge base that at some point in this country we could move on to a genuine basic income, so that we can end this debate on this income support, we can end the debate on these various incentive traps and create a system in this country where it is always worthwhile for people, regardless of what kind of support schemes they are in.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u203	Mr President! Hardly anyone in the opposition disagrees with the government that the employment rate should not be increased and jobs increased. It is quite obvious, but it is just as clear that not all people will ever be in a situation where they can support themselves with their own work without resorting to income support. That is why we have this income support system in the Constitution. The criticism of the government and the criticism of all the poverty researchers is that the government, through its own actions, increases the number of people who are dependent on income support. Why this criticism? It is because income support is such a minimum benefit. It is a last resort benefit and it has never been thought that people are dependent on income support for a long time. As a result, the income support does not have the same protective component as in unemployment benefit and housing allowance. For this reason, poverty researchers say that income support is like a runaway for a person who cannot escape on his own. So income support is not the kind of form in which it would be so easy for a person to work while living. This situation is due, among other things, to the fact that income support is a benefit per household, it is not an individual benefit, as is currently, for example, labour market support. In other words, if the government wants to increase the employment rate, eliminate job incentive traps, then the government will not increase the dependency on income support. This is very simple.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u204	Mr President! It is easy to go on from the speech by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto to Mr Kärnä. Just as has already been said here in several speeches and in most cases, the common goal for all of us is that people should be employed in the labour market and, therefore, our economy in society too, in the country. Now, however, government action has meant that if a person does not have access to the labour market and is placed on social security, in practice his life situation will become much more difficult and also more difficult to find employment in the labour market. You have systematically cut down on primary benefits and thus pushed people into income support. As Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto said in his own speech, various experts, both in our committees and in society elsewhere, have said that strengthening the priority benefits and abolishing income support would be the best incentive for people to work and to society in many ways. If a person is dependent on income support, in practice it becomes an addiction and becomes more difficult to get out of it. This is why, for example, the impact of income support on such employees in practice cannot even be established that a person would be employed by means of income support, but that he will then be employed much better than the rest of the social security system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u205	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u206	Mr President! In this context, I will make a slightly broader speech on the treatment of elderly people, particularly those with memory disorders. The government's proposal also mentions concerns about the quality of treatment for people with memory disorders — at least this is how I want to interpret the point in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, which refers to the need for greater assistance and support for people with memory disorders. As a whole, however, it seems that the government does not really understand how important this is. There are nearly 195,000 people in Finland with memory disorders. Memory diseases are no longer hopeless diseases, can be prevented, treated, and rehabilitated. In a progressive memory disorder, timely treatment and rehabilitation can slow down the process of illness and prevent people from getting into beds for months or even years, as happened before. Being able to stay at home for as long as possible and then in a community home, such as enhanced service housing, makes both human and social sense. The rehabilitation of a person with a memory disorder requires professional staff, since even very small things can collapse the condition of a person with a memory disorder: urinary tract infection, untreated inflammation in the mouth, poor nutrition status, lack of fluid supply, incorrect medication or other such treatment can easily make a person with a memory disorder a bed patient. After two days in bed he may not be able to walk. Skilled personnel are also needed because, for example, inconspicuous depression or physical pain, which a person has not been able to tell, can cause aggressive behavior, which even today is too easily treated with sedatives. Even in very small doses, tranquilizers can remove the memory - impaired so - called legs, resulting in a rapid loss of walking ability. These were just examples. Only well-trained personnel will be able to detect these things and deal with them in such a way that their ability to function will not be undermined for nothing. People with memory disorders can't be treated by just anyone. The treatment team must have a wide range of expertise. In the case of home-based memory disorders, trained memory nurses would be a priority for ensuring comprehensive care. There are still too few memory carers in municipalities and not all so-called memory carers are adequately trained for the job. The idea of the responsible nurse in the Elderly Services Act is that to take over the customer’s overall situation, a person who is best placed to be responsible for evaluating, planning and monitoring the implementation of the overall care is chosen as the client’s responsible manager. Since many people with memory disorders have a lot of special care needs, in many cases a nurse would be the most appropriate nurse. The main point, however, is that the role of the responsible manager is clearly defined. Unfortunately, this highly functional system is now being dismantled. The government's proposal is based on the fact that municipalities are free to decide what skills are needed there. The Memory Federation has made so-called memory barometers at regular intervals to assess the overall state of treatment and the quality of treatment of people with memory disorders across Finland in different municipalities. On the basis of these results, it can be said unequivocally that the evaluation has not been successful in many municipalities at the moment. Fortunately, we have municipalities where the treatment and rehabilitation of people with memory disorders is quite exemplary, but unfortunately we have too many municipalities where the things of people with memory disorders are very bad. Add to all of this the government’s planned proposal to weaken the human dimension in community homes, and I predict a drastic decline in the quality of care, which in time will also cost society a great deal of money. Are we returning or do we want to return to the 70s to 80s, when uneducated people took care of the elderly and because of the lack of rehabilitation care there were huge long-term care departments in the municipalities where people were treated as beds? 25 years of work have been done in Finland to dismantle this inhuman institutional culture and now we are taking big steps back. The treatment of memory-diseased patients requires adequate rehabilitation staff, alongside which a multi-professional team of experts is employed. It should also be remembered that in addition to the development of home care, many new community homes are needed, since memory disorders are diseases where living alone at home is not humanely possible when the disease has reached a certain stage. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u207	Mr President! This government proposal will by no means take away all the expertise in the care of the elderly. I quite agree that there is no reason for society to go into the development that we are getting back to huge institutions with only beds. I do not think this is the intention of this government's proposal. The Government's proposal suggests that there is sufficient diversity of expertise. I would like to point out here — Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, you have already raised the nurses — also the nurses who are close by. Their training programme includes support for growth and guidance, care and care, support for rehabilitation. This includes theory, guidance and learning at work. In addition, there are specializations, such as care and care, disability work, old people’s work — it is their choice — oral care. In other words, this is already the potential of knowledge that it is great to go to work for the elderly, and it is desirable that these elderly workers also come to work there. I welcome the fact that a health care professional can also work as a self-employed person in the future. It's that self-consciousness, it's taking responsibility for your own client, your own patient. And I can see that the health care person in a given situation is also very suitable and highly qualified. Education and skills in the care of the elderly are of great importance. Nor do I see as bad what used to be. We had bathers, we also had helpful staff there as help hands, and I must say that 30 years after Christmas, when I graduated as a nurse, I do not want to turn my back on the care workers, but I know that they are the ones who are ready to catch it. When the nurse has performed such treatments as wound treatment, diabetes-related insulin injections, these treatments, then even if she becomes a care worker and arranges for the care work there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u208	Mr President! Last season, one of the most spectacular government proposals was the Act on Elderly Services, and when the Act on Elderly Services was prepared and finally adopted in Parliament by means of a joint declaration by Parliament, which defined Parliament's common will for minimum personnel, it was honorable of us for the elderly and the elderly. Now it is really sad and sad that a few years after the government changes, the government is going to crush this strong, good old-age service law, which has provided a good basis for developing practices across Finland. Now the government weakens the staff compositions and aligns the minimum number of care workers to lower the number of people living in intensified housing and in old age homes from 0.5 to 0.4. This goes against the opinion of key experts, professionals, the elderly and family. I would have liked to have seen experts, citizens and organisations from different parts of Finland approach MPs, the government and get up to the barricades because they are concerned about the situation of the elderly in the future, so the government would have consulted citizens and professionals in this regard. The list of professions for which special expertise must be available to the municipality is now also deleted, and this was one of the basic elements of the Old Age Services Act: special expertise was brought in precisely on the basis of its needs for services for the elderly. Similarly, old-age service responsibilities will be abolished
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u209	Mr President! A civilized society takes care of its weaker ones: children, the disabled, the sick and the elderly. This government is in the process of building a society in which this principle is beginning to be forgotten with concern. The government's inhumane plans to weaken the care of the elderly are difficult to accept. The budget will reduce the cost of care for the elderly by more than EUR 50 million at a time when the number of elderly people and the need for services is constantly increasing. The Act on Elderly Services, which was adopted during the last parliamentary term, will be weakened, and the minimum limit for caring for the 24-hour care of the elderly will be lowered. Mr President! The elderly population is growing and diversifying, which requires a wide range of skills from employees. However, these proposed amendments do not ensure the use of appropriate and adequate expertise and expertise when providing elderly services to an increasingly diverse group of customers. According to the current law, the municipality must have a wide range of expertise to support the well-being of the ageing population. Special expertise must be provided at least in the areas of well-being and health promotion, gerontological care and social work, geriatrics, medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. The proposed amendment to the Old Age Services Act proposes that the above list be deleted from the Act. This is expected to bring savings of almost EUR 15 million. All that remains is a general reference to the expertise of the services needed by the ageing population. But how do you assess the need for services without the above-mentioned specific expertise? Making and implementing care and services plans for the elderly without special expertise is likely to be quite difficult. Until now, the law’s requirement of special expertise has not meant that municipalities should employ a person representing each area of expertise in addition to other employees, but that at least one or some of the employees in the service of the elderly should be able to manage the specific knowledge of gerontological or geriatric skills in their own field. It is difficult to understand how the removal of the requirement for special expertise from the law will bring any savings, whereas, on the contrary, proper expertise can save those costs. At the same time, the expertise acquired so far will now be destroyed. In addition, geriatric and gerontological training and skills developed for the past 30 years will be invalidated. Mr President! On the contrary, more gerontological knowledge and skills are needed in the field of elderly work in order to ensure quality of care and care for older people. By increasing Gerontological competence and understanding, it is possible to renew thinking models and attitudes related to care for older customers. The diversity and challenges of gerontological work should be made more visible in our society, and the work should be given the due respect it deserves. Gerontological competence would also be needed for other preventive services such as social work, rehabilitation and service guidance. The aim was to select at least one specialist in geriatric medicine as a doctor for elderly services, for example. This does not produce any more medical posts. This is a review of the standard qualifications of municipalities, not the creation of new posts. The same applies to other staff and specialised skills. For example, some nutrition experts may be familiar with the nutrition of the elderly. The background memorandum of the steering group, which prepared the Old Age Services Act, stated that special expertise can also be organised as a joint or purchasing service of several municipalities. Gerontological social work and better use of genomic and socio-economic skills should be ensured specifically and not removed from the list of diverse competences. On the contrary, care should be taken to ensure that the division of duties and responsibilities of professional staff are adequate and that the human resources are adequate. The removal of the need for expertise in the treatment of the elderly is particularly worrying. Special expertise is required in the treatment of the elderly. Inappropriate medical treatments do not only entail pharmaceutical costs as direct costs. They lead to loss of memory, confusion, falls and fractures of the elderly, causing considerable costs. Mr President! The current Act on Elderly Services requires the municipality to appoint an elderly person as a responsible worker if he or she needs assistance in matters related to the provision and coordination of services, i.e. to monitor whether the service plan promised to him or her is being implemented and to contact the appropriate bodies in case of shortcomings. The responsible worker is also responsible for providing advice and assistance to an elderly person in matters related to access to services and benefits, and also, where necessary, on the basis of the individual situation and needs of an elderly person in matters related to the implementation and coordination of services, and for providing advice on benefits. The aim now is also to abandon these responsible workers and thus achieve savings of EUR 12.5 million. Up to now, responsible workers could only be used if necessary, not automatically for all older people. The responsible worker is intended for lonely, unfit elderly people who are no longer able to stand up for the services they deserve and are promised. The most vulnerable and lonely elderly will be affected by this deterioration. Mr President! It would be important for the future social welfare reform to include a wide range of special skills for the well-being of older people in the legislation on both municipalities and regions. Special expertise must be provided in the areas of well-being and health promotion, gerontological care and social work, geriatrics, medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. Special expertise will contribute to ensuring that care for older people is properly implemented, including through the use of a rehabilitative approach to work and at the same time cost-effectively and effectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u210	Mr President! I went to study as a nurse for the elderly in the aftermath of the previous recession in 95 C.E. When I weighed those options, whether I am going to specialize in children, young people, indoor diseases or perhaps the elderly, the main reason, or actually two reasons why I chose gerontological care, were that as a care provider of the elderly I would not need anyone fresh and healthy to heal, but I could give joy to the day and I could take care of those people in that moment with my own person. The death of an elderly person is always acceptable, contrary to what can often be thought of when a child or young person is suffering and dying. Another reason for that choice was that I knew there was always work in this area. I specialized in those studies especially in dementing diseases. From that point of view, I have such a guiding principle that whenever I have the opportunity to talk about care for the elderly, I do not want to be able to complain about how terrible it is and how bad it is, but I want to feel responsible that another young person may feel that care for the elderly is my thing. Mr President! In fact, I can say that even in the mid-1990s, when I started those studies and started the first training, the staff did not become numb. And as a result of those studies, my vision of the future changed in such a way that I had the idea of going to school as a nurse, but the atmosphere in the various elderly departments made me wonder what factors affect people’s working lives and well - being at work. So I went to study supervisory work and management, and even in these discussions, considering the adequacy of nursing and the factors affecting the ability of the staff to cope, there are many key things that can be distinguished. It is quite true that there must be enough people, but the other thing is that people must have adequate training, and thirdly: departments and working communities must be in good condition for management and supervisory work. I am not saying that the supervisor is the only factor in the working community being sustained, but he is the central authority in determining what is permitted and what is not. By his own conduct and supervisory work, he directs that every employee in the working community assumes his own responsibility for the work community when Matti or Maija or Hannakaisa arrive on the shift. These factors play an enormous role in how the workers cope and how they meet their customers, their patients, the elderly and their relatives there in the working community. These are the things I want to remind you of whenever there is a chance. Here, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, another expert on old age, went through these issues very expertly, for example on memory disorders, and I am in exactly the same line with him that our objective, recorded in the Government Programme too, is that we want people to be able to live in the home for as long as possible, and then we hope that the various forms of community housing would be that so-called traditional institutional care, now in many places enhanced service housing would only be the last option. That is why, in the key projects under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we are strongly developing family and family care, among other things, with quite different efforts than ever before. We support the ability of older people to function through various projects and prevent their loneliness and support services taken home and their development by means of large-scale investments. There have been praises here for the Act on Elderly Services adopted during the last term of government. The older the determining factor for good care for the elderly is the quality recommendations for good care for the elderly, which are now being defined in line with today's challenges. There is one such thing, and I believe that it is well-intentioned, and that is the house size I have raised before. It says that all elderly people in long - term care should have their own room. That sounds like a good and valuable thing to us healthy people, but for people with memory disorders who are already in a moderate or difficult phase, loneliness and their own room do not always represent quality. For many old people, seeing another person in that same room can be a very reassuring factor. When you wake up in the middle of the night when you don't know where you are — or sometimes you don't even know who you are — then when you see another living figure in that room, you calm down that you stay in bed and don't go sleepless and climb away and look for people. Those moments are often those when the fatal falls occur — hip fractures, wrist fractures, severe head blows. That is why it is really good that this house size issue is also being reviewed and that it is really in everyone's interest. Mr President! At the end of this rather long speech, I would like to emphasise once again that I hope that we will not further mediate old age. It is already a great victory for Western society that more and more of us are reaching a high age. Because of improved hygiene, medicine, nutrition, social conditions, this is possible for more and more of us. But just as a child or a disabled family member or a close relative, an elderly person can and must continue to be cared for. It may not always be a matter of great expertise, but a basic understanding of what is to be done in a safe life. In this situation, it is only important for municipalities, perhaps in the future in social areas, to have the know-how that can be supported by those families, family carers and others who do not necessarily have all the skills listed above for themselves, family members or carers, but the fact that this help is available and accessible is the objective. In various ways we want to support this, and the least of this is the development of home care for the elderly and of these services in general and the achievement of its specialist expertise, these projects, which we also develop digitalisation and these services, so that the best expertise, which may not be physically in the same room, can be obtained electronically.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u211	Mr President! Those of us who have worked for the elderly seem to be in line here now. I've been doing old-fashioned work myself in the second generation. My mother did her life's work in old people's work, and her first instruction when I came to the department as a newly-completed nurse for the first summer job was that "The wind, now that you come to work in this department, it treats people like you treat yourself," and I've always tried to keep it in all my memory. In other words, how you view the elderly must always stop and wonder whether you are dealing with, whether you are talking about the elderly or whether we are talking about a person — a person with a lot of life experience. But this law then. It is a little mystery to me or amazement that the old-age service law, which has only been in force for less than three years, is already being dismantled and weakened in the name of these Normbits. Now there are reforms that say that Article 10 of the Act on services for the elderly removes the list of these professions, of which the municipality must have special expertise. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to social reform. The municipality will now be replaced, according to the ideas of the government, by a provincial appointment, and this is how the parties understand, in agreement, that there will be larger areas of social welfare and health care, and in the government's proposal it will be a province. When you look at this list and think about it, I ask whether this expertise cannot be found in these future provinces. I think that we should stop now with these laws and the standard bite to think about what terrain we are actually putting these laws in, and if you look at them from this point of view, without any difficulty you will find this expertise. After all, this social reform should now be able to make better use of and exploit the expertise and also the specific expertise they have. It does not have to be in every single small town, the municipality of a couple of thousands of inhabitants, because this social welfare area can take advantage of it much more widely and also exploits modern technology and digitalisation and so on. In other words, it is very important that this listing remains, that these future regions ensure that, in the case of care for the elderly, this strong knowledge exists and can be found. Well, the other thing is these responsible workers, it's getting out of here. Now reference is made to the Social Welfare Act, which also contains similar records of this — perhaps one can think of it. I do not see so much overlap here, because yes, this care for the elderly will be a matter for us for a couple of years — thirty years — that it certainly takes a responsible worker to do this. Yes, we have trained professionals in the youth service and elsewhere who are responsible for taking the activities forward. And this responsible worker is one who will certainly become even more prominent now in this future world of social services, especially in the situation where we go to this kind of freedom of choice, where then some of the services are produced by companies and some were supposed to stay there in the province then with that sense and understanding of where this person is being treated and how. Even in that sense, although it may be thought here that saves, when the standard is dismantled, it may be that, in fact, such a responsible worker in the final games could even curb the increase in costs. Well, then, with this dimension. This now relates to this quality recommendation that was drawn up in connection with the Act on services for the elderly. After all, it was sent by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities together to the municipalities, and it was called upon to strengthen the nursing dimension in the 24-hour care of the elderly so that this minimum level of 0.5 would be reached. Now that it has been possible to reach this minimum level, it has already been demolished and weakened by the government and signaled that 0.4 would be enough, or 0.4 to 0.5. But the reality is that the dimension is now changing, not to respond to today's needs, but to the contrary. If it is to be done that 0.4 would suffice, then all the experts and those who do this have said that it is by no means enough, but on the contrary, the average is there at 0.6. So this 0.5 minimum is an absolute deadline, and it is precisely because we treat the elderly and the elderly can stay at home longer and longer with home help and home care, which is a good thing. As a result, the elderly in our care centres are also more unfit. What I would like to draw attention to is that Mäkisalo-Ropponen gave a very good speech in which he dealt with the problem of memory-diseased people, and yes, I must say that the situation there is — and I am sure everyone will hear from their relatives and close friends — is that memory disorders will be such a big thing. It causes tremendous concern in relatives, in the environment, including in people and neighbors involved in the treatment. For this reason, this whole society of ours should be built more and more in an old age-friendly way, so that people with memory problems can survive longer at home and also receive expert support and care, and that there would also be intermediate care facilities that were sorely needed between its home and this kind of institutional care. This is a matter for us in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. That's where we'll continue this conversation. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u212	Mr President! I myself have trained 25 years of old work for students first, and then for 10 years I worked in the working community as a co-driver along with them, breaking down the institutional culture. So I have seen a change in cultures and the possibility of this change in the way in which a community home is made up of a community home that is fully responsible for the care of bed-patients, based on a completely different set of principles. The most important aspects of this successful transformation process are sufficient staff, motivated staff specifically, adequately trained staff, i.e. extensive professionalism and the ability to take advantage of experts as well, and then self-consciousness, working together and ethical management. The most important thing is that people have understood that all activities must be rehabilitative, every moment there is a rehabilitating moment. Without continuous rehabilitation care for elderly people, especially those with memory disorders, there is no need for beds. That is why there used to be those long corridors in the ward, where the rooms were filled with these people to be treated in bed. This rehabilitation work requires skills and skills, and it cannot be done without adequate training. As I said in that speech, not everyone can treat people with memory disorders. This kind of thinking will lead to an increase in the number of patients in bed. This kind of rehabilitative nursing is able to organize every situation in such a way that it has the rehabilitating element involved. I am really concerned about the consequences of the proposals made by these governments, because I can see quite clearly that we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u213	Mr President! It is easy to agree with that previous speech. I find it extremely regrettable that the ministers have not bothered to listen to this debate, which, at least in my opinion, has been very expert, and it has been a pleasure to listen to the speeches made by these previous representatives — clearly talking about something that they themselves know, something that is not quite normal in this Chamber in every respect. At an oral Question Time, Minister Ruhula said that these cuts in care for the elderly will not in any way undermine the quality of care for the elderly and that skills can continue to be maintained. This statement, among other things, would have made it very necessary for him to take part in this debate. It would have been possible to ask him specific questions about how the government now intends to ensure that the municipalities will continue to have the knowledge that this trained staff has secured in the municipalities. I do agree with Mr Haatainen that, when implementing this municipal and social reform, it would be very necessary to stick to this Article 10, which specifically goes through the knowledge that should continue to exist in each province. However, I very much regret the fact that the government has now decided to start these deregulations from among the weakest here, and it is precisely the social policy issue that is taking place here: I very much regret that, at the same time as the dismantling of institutional and service housing, [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : I would ask the speaker to continue with the speaker. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u216	Mr President! I appreciate the knowledge of geriatrics in this Chamber, but I would like to bring up a very close point of view here. I have an 89-year-old in my mother’s service home and has been through many stages before she is already in very poor condition. I was thinking about the fact that an elderly nurse was made such a mystical thing here and it was found that only highly educated people could do it and every single moment is a rehabilitating moment. I dare say that I also think that those moments are very important when someone clicks on Mom's favorite program on the radio or reads a book or sings together, or, for example, the work of those volunteers who: In Kivijärvi, a lot of people take part in the recreation of a service dwelling, carrying out the elderly so that every elderly person who wants to go out. I think it is important that there is knowledge, but I do not sign this in the same way, that everything that is done for safety and well-being should be highly educated. I think it's important to be close.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u217	Mr President! To the very end, I agree with Mr Kalmar that the role of our relatives is extremely important in the services of the elderly and too often we hear that our elderly people are left alone in those service units because they live in different places and the possibility for them to visit their loved ones, for example, is too rare. That is why these stimulants and then the volunteers and their role, their role in supporting the services of the elderly, are extremely important, but it does not remove the additional cuts resulting from this old-age service law, and we cannot think that the additional cuts that will be made would be replaced by family members or, if not, stimulants and volunteers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u218	Mr President! I would also like to say to Mr Kalmar that perhaps I misinterpreted what rehabilitation is. Rehabilitating nursing is living in everyday life, doing everyday things together. It means that every day you walk, every day you socialize, every day you are together, but if a person with a memory disorder doesn't, for example, get to walk every day and has a couple of days like this, that he just sits in a chair, so it can be that in the third place he can't walk anymore, or if you don't socialize with a person with a memory disorder if you're not together, then his interaction skills very suddenly disappear, he forgets how to act in everyday life. To be together, to face up, to do everyday things together, you need skilled staff, so that meeting up is good for both of you. We need sufficient staff to deal with these situations in such a way that we go to the bathroom together and do things together. Immediately if we start doing for ourselves, as uneducated personnel often do for their good, then we will lose much in that everyday encounter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u219	Mr President! First of all, I will take up this point, which was raised in the previous speech from this point of view. It is a very big thing in a work community where, for various reasons, the nurse either combs the hair or does some procedure, sometimes also because of haste, but it does not necessarily depend on the employee not having information about how to act. And as I pointed out in my recent speech the importance of this supervisory work, these are the very things that should be outlined in the working community and remember that we do not do for but always have that rehabilitative work in it, and in that good-spirited working community we take care of these things too. Mr President! The second point I wanted to comment on is the importance of stimulating, reading, outsourcing for that ability to function. In this we have a better model to learn on many sides of Finland. I hope, for my part, that, in this area too, we will be doing the work of disseminating these good practices, and where it has been seen that we are better able to involve volunteers and relatives in the right way, it will also be allowed. And then on that calculation of functional capacity during bed rest: According to the studies, about 3-5 percent of the muscle mass of an elderly person disappears in a 24-hour bed rest, and whether a person is mentally ill or otherwise in bed rest, the mechanism is exactly the same. This is really important for all of us: when the flu season is at its worst, every person who can get a fingernail out of bed to make even those little washrooms. That's the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u220	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Heikkinen, for your very good speech. I totally agree with you, but there's one word I want to say. Today we are not happy to talk about stimulation, but about hobby and doing things together, because at least I don't want to be in an ageing stimulus group, but I want to do things and I want to do nice everyday things. So words matter, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u221	We are talking about important issues, and that is why it is good to ask for the next floor. — It probably doesn’t matter whether it’s stimulating or hobby activities, as long as it’s one of the things that brings content to the old man’s day. I can like to whistle if my own dentures have been left in a glass of water in the morning, as long as that day is a joy, and it can be brought by trained staff, volunteers and family alike. Communityly, the answer is that older people have a place where they live, good to be and there is content in the days. It is certainly the common goal of the people still in this Chamber at this time of night to find in care the dimensions that are not going to lead to medicalization but that life will come to that day, and the basic idea is that people who are close to an elderly person, whether they are volunteering, for the profession or on the basis of a friendship, that attitude will determine: the desire to be close, the courage to be near, the old age, even the approaching death. That humanity is measured in those relationships when you are close to an elderly person, as in all other nursing work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u222	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u223	Mr President! I wanted to ask for the floor because I am sitting on the Environment Committee in the North of Central Finland and there is a meeting just this evening where, following the reforms of the previous government's bill of payments and the Tobacco Act, monitoring fees are increased at retail outlets for tobacco so that, at present, the control fee is EUR 58 from 1 to 3 points of sale per year, the charges will have to be increased from EUR 500 upwards, and this will be common practice. Well, it was stated in this presentation that this must be communicated because of the fact that these outlets will then be driven down. And this is thought to be the case that tobacco sales are now going to fall considerably — it was said that perhaps it is a positive thing that tobacco is not available at so many points. But I would like to ask you now that this reform of the law has a point like this: "1.3 The National Tobacco Control Programme", which direction this reform of the law is taking. Would anyone in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health be able to tell us more about this? Will it weaken local sales yet, or will it loosen this legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u224	Mr President! In this proposal, the prohibitions on the sale and import of tobacco products without smoking are limited to chewing tobacco, nasal cream and oral tobacco, so that the Tobacco Act is in line with the decision taken by the EU Commission. There is one concern about this proposal, namely that new types of innovative tobacco products, which are particularly attractive to children and young people, may now be on the market in Finland, and this is something that it is important then to look into in committee and think about solutions to prevent children and young people from starting to use these products.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u225	Mr President! Just as Mrs Eloranta said in her speech, the bans on the sale and import of tobacco products without tobacco would be limited to chewing tobacco, nasal cream and oral tobacco, in accordance with the decision of the European Commission. These possible other non-smoking tobacco products are not subject to any specific restrictions under the proposed law. It is still not clear what these other non-smoking tobacco products might be. I am sure that this issue will have to be considered very carefully in committee. Furthermore, this bill does not limit imports for own use. In accordance with this law, each person may import one kilo of these products mentioned in the proposal within one day. Mr President! However, I would like to take this opportunity to say the following about the snoop in the mouth: I think that it was a serious mistake when Finland joined the European Union that we did not obtain an exemption from the sale of snus like our neighbouring country, Sweden. Indeed, all available evidence shows that snuff is significantly less harmful to health than tobacco. It is even disconcerting that we were justified on the grounds of a ban on oral cancer, although studies in Sweden show that although Sweden has the world’s largest number of sniffers in the population, there is the world’s lowest incidence of oral cancer. In fact, as a result, in Sweden, there was no scientific evidence to suggest that these products would cause cancer. Of course, it is quite clear that we are not talking about any health products and the use of these products could seriously endanger the health of the user. However, snus is widely used in Finland. A lot of it is imported, and especially imports take place in Lapland, of which I am here as a representative. It is estimated that we will lose between EUR 26 million and EUR 42 million per year in excise duty from snuff in the shadow economy, and this chapter does not, of course, include any legally imported snuff. Even conservative estimates suggest that we will lose hundreds of millions of euros of tax revenue per year, because the sale of snuff is not allowed in Finland. I would like to ask: can we really afford this? It is worrying that when tax revenue flows to our neighbouring country Sweden, Finland will only be responsible in this case for dealing with the disadvantages. I am in favour of an active debate in the European Union and of considering that, since Sweden has this exemption and since Sweden has such a snoop, from which both Norwegians, Danes and Finns are buying their snuff products, it would be appropriate to allow the sale of snoops in these countries as well, and not least because of the fact that, as I said earlier, these ter-wolves in snoop have been found to be significantly lower than in tobacco.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u226	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 10/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u227	Mr President, as well as a large number of other audiences! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, as well as the government, has drawn attention to the fact that the economic situation in agriculture is currently very weak. Unexpected market failures have occurred on the agricultural market, resulting in a significant fall in producer prices. Russia’s 2014 food import ban has had a particularly strong impact. The abandonment of milk quotas in the EU in March 2015 has also disrupted the dairy market and caused overproduction and disruption throughout the EU. From February 2014, the milk producer price has fallen by 16 per cent by February 2016. The producer price for pigmeat has fallen by 15 %, for chicken by 11 %, for bread wheat by 8 % and for beef by 7.5 %. At the same time, the increase in inputs has continued with a few exceptions. This has led to liquidity on farms where production itself should normally be profitable being disturbed and even under threat of bankruptcy. That is why it is very important that we now took action and implemented the Government Programme guidelines that will overcome this crisis. This Government proposal proposes to provide for a law on state guarantees for farms in 2016 and 2017. State guarantees would be granted on bank liquidity loans and financed by the Agricultural Development Fund. In addition, two laws will be amended so that we will be able to receive years of deferral of interest subsidies and repayments of government loans. It is particularly important to note that when these repayments of sovereign debt are made at the end of this month, it is already possible to apply for this deferral. In this way we will be spared many very serious situations, even bankruptcy threats on farms, and we will be able to get past this difficult period of delay. Now there is a little light in itself. Producer prices have turned to a slight increase and the overproduction situation has been dismantled in many respects. What is also great is that our export efforts carry on and, for example, the export of pigmeat to China is beginning, as is the export of oats, and dairy products have already been exported to China. There is also a small recovery in other markets, and I believe that since the world's population is growing at a staggering rate and it is estimated that 2050 will have to double agricultural production worldwide in order to meet this challenge, it cannot be very long-term that, when the population increases, these producer prices will grovel at such a low level. In itself, all the measures which contribute to a more reasonable determination of this market price, including that of the producers, are also very welcome and welcome. These have also been taken up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u228	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to provide for a law on state guarantees for farms in 2016 and 2017. The purpose of the law is to alleviate the temporary economic difficulties caused by changes in the agricultural environment on farms, so the law is also very important in this respect. As we have heard before, there have been unexpected market failures in the agricultural market over the last few years, resulting in a significant fall in producer prices and a deterioration in the short-term liquidity of agricultural holdings. Many farms face difficulties in coping with the costs of normal operations and debt repayments. Banks have not always had an understanding of farmers. At the moment, I do not know a single agricultural bank. In recent years, the banking line has become much tighter. The main liquidity problems have been highlighted especially by young farmers who have invested heavily in their farms, those who have a high debt burden and who have not been able to prepare for rapid and often unexpected price changes. However, this valuable group is the one that will make it possible for all of us to eat clean Finnish food in the future. You can't overemphasize what they're doing. The criteria of the state guarantee scheme provided for in the proposal must be easy to understand and as simple as possible to avoid the administrative burden on applicants and authorities for the guarantee. This has not been the case recently. I think it is important, like the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, that the guarantee can also be granted to the fur producer. In Finland, furs are cultivated very ethically, and it can be said that few even take as good care of their dog as fur producers take care of foxes and minks. For example, around 1.9 million minkin leather were produced in Finnish fur zoos last year and just over 2 million fox and Finnish funnel skins were produced. In my opinion, Finland would be able to multiply the production of fur, because it is also economically viable for the fur producer. On average, the price paid for fox skin is approximately EUR 145 per piece and for minkin leather EUR 40 to 50 per piece. Mr President! To conclude, Finland is the fifth largest producer country in the world in terms of mink and second largest in terms of fox skins, and the fur Sala directly employs around 5,000 people in Finland, so it cannot be said that this is an insignificant sector, which is now covered by this state guarantee system. I think it is very important that the system also applies to fur production in addition to conventional agricultural production. It is also important to note that this bill is intended to apply to loans granted before the entry into force of the proposed amendments. I very much welcome this proposal because it will help to alleviate the temporary economic difficulties on farms caused by changes in the agricultural environment of the Finnish farmer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-25-ps-106.u229	Mr President! I would like to continue with this excellent speech on the important point that this legislation also applies to fur farms, which was very important, and I would like to clarify that the maximum guaranteed loan is 30% of the combined average of the farmers' sales income and agricultural subsidies over the last two years, but not more than EUR 110000 and not less than EUR 30000. The State guarantee may cover up to 70 % of the amount of the loan covered by the guarantee. The term of the loan shall not exceed 7 years, which may include a maximum of two repayment-free years. It is important that we take care of people who have believed and invested in domestic food production, because they will also produce food for our children in the future.
