ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u2	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u3	Mr President! In its programme, the bourgeois government decided to build on one card to strengthen economic growth and employment. The Government believes that the problems of Finland’s growth and unemployment will be solved as hard-working people in work and people burdened to their extremes work more and with lower wages than before. The SDP sees the problems of Finnish exports as far more diverse than cost competitiveness alone, and therefore the solution to these problems requires the introduction of a whole deck of cards, a wide range of measures and solutions from different perspectives. This is what the SDP has proposed. Prime Minister Sipilä, the SDP supports the emergence of a stable and predictable labour market solution. Now that the social partners are in the final negotiations on the competitiveness pact, I would like to ask you an assessment of the sectors and percentages in which exports will increase in 2017, the number of unemployed fewer than this year and the number of employed people next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u4	Madam President! By no means has the government built up an increase in the employment rate on a single card. This competitiveness package is one of the elements in which the Government aims to create 110,000 new jobs in Finland. The fact that we have now come together to agree on such long lines of lime is very positive, and the government has been working all spring to achieve this. Labour market organisations themselves have estimated that the content of this competitiveness pact would contribute to the creation of 45,000 new jobs in Finland. The government's own estimate has been 35,000 new jobs. So this is about a third of the government’s overall goal: 110,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u5	Madam President! Just as the Prime Minister said, the government is not leaving the employment objective to one card. Of course, this competitiveness pact is in this big role, but today, among other things, I was opening up an event and this kind of working group with officials from various ministries. The task of these officials is to review the proposals for new employment measures and to bring them into the autumn budget debate. Among other things, this shows that the government is certainly not on one card to play.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u7	Mr President! It is good to hear that the government has measures to start building economic growth and employment. According to the SDP’s assessment, the government’s actions, known to date, are by no means sufficient to strengthen economic growth and employment, but much more needs to be done. The SDP has put forward a significant number of measures, most recently in the context of the intermediate issue, paragraph 10, which will strengthen economic growth and employment. The option of the SDP is based on strengthening employment here and now and on measures to increase it, including the employment voucher and this support for hiring the first co-worker. We have a broad set of measures in which individual measures together and separately strengthen employment quickly, here and now. We have also put forward these dozens of measures to strengthen entrepreneurship and exports. Mr Sipilä, I would like to ask you: are you prepared to take the measures we have put forward into these measures that will strengthen employment here and now, economic growth and exports here and now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u8	Madam President! Perhaps as a recap, we now have an employment rate of about 68%. When the government program was written, it was a little under. Our goal is 72. This difference requires about 110,000 new jobs. The measures that we already have within us are estimated to take about 1.5 percentage points of this, which is to raise its employment rate to nearly 70. This competitiveness package has been estimated to affect more than a percentage point, i.e. more than 70. Government employment measures and measures to promote entrepreneurship take up part of this remaining 2% target and we need more to achieve the employment rate target of 72%. These actions will be prepared by the end of the budget debate. All the ideas that move in this sector will be welcomed, including the SDP's presentations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u9	Mr President! Any agreements that would come into effect through this competitive labour market solution would, as a rule, only enter into force in 2017. That is why it is important to take action here and now, for example, to launch extensive investment programmes to put health centres and schools in order. Mr President! This Competitiveness Pact also agreed on a rather significant extension of local agreement. Recently, a strange debate has taken place in society: on the one hand, it has been said that trust in jobs is needed, but on the other hand, there has been fear of a shop steward. The way we see ourselves and the SDP is that the shop steward is often the best partner of the employer in the workplace if we want to create the climate of trust that is needed for local reconciliation. Now we have heard that Finnish Entrepreneurs have rejected this solution. The Prime Minister said earlier that no organisation has the right to veto. Now it seems that Finnish Entrepreneurs do. If this solution is not acceptable to Finnish entrepreneurs, you will inform them,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u10	Madam President! Firstly, these investments. In this tight economic situation, the government has adopted an exceptionally large investment programme. For example, road repair debt is managed by EUR 600 million. As regards this improvement in the status of non-organised employers as part of this competitiveness pact, no one has the right to veto the competitiveness pact, of course, but I have individually negotiated with all the social partners that, if the Finnish Entrepreneurs do not believe that the status of non-organised employers does not improve in the way that has now been negotiated, it can be taken out of this package of agreements. Personally, I think it's a mistake to take it away from it. With 25 years of entrepreneurial experience, I am not afraid that there will be a clear counterpart to workers who are a shop steward. I do not consider these arguments to be sustainable here,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u12	Madam President! As part of this competitiveness pact, you have talked about possible tax reductions, and certainly as far as they are concerned with low and middle incomes, it is a good thing, but this inevitably, President, also raises the question of the taxation of pensioners and the fair treatment of pensioners. In contrast to the Government parties, in particular the Coalition Party, prior to the elections, the pension beneficiaries were promised, the Government was unequaled from the beginning of this year in the taxation of pensioners in relation to employees. And quite a lot of pensioners have been wondering about this and felt that in some way they were being a little tricked when the speeches were different in the run-up to the elections, and now the opposite is true. This is wrong, and I think it is very quickly, immediately, to correct this unfair treatment. The SDP has also proposed this in its own options, and we strongly demand it. President! My question, Mr Stubb: will you immediately also correct the unfair tax treatment of pensioners and act as you promised before the elections to pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u13	Madam President! After all, we made a three-step tax proposal here to the social partners, that is to say, to receive. The first step is that if the coverage is 80%, we will receive EUR 315 million. It compensates the wage and salary earners, as it were, for the change in their purchasing power. The second is the 85% coverage — then we will receive 415 million in total. And the third is that if this agreement has a 90% coverage, then we will meet up to 515 million. On the pensioner side, we can say that the taxation of pensioners will not be tightened and some will in any case be reduced, as these scales will be reduced. At this stage, we have decided on the size of the budget, and in the future, in the budget debate, we will end its profile. But I can say that once again, Mr Viitanen, that the taxation of any pensioners will not increase during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u14	Mr President! The competitiveness pact is now in its infancy and the most important moments are at hand. I hope that a solution will be found here to ensure that as many unions as possible are involved and that an agreement is reached as comprehensive as possible. The economy, of course, depends quite a lot on what we do ourselves, whether the government has good proposals and whether we can come up with a package that creates credibility in the rise of the Finnish economy. I would ask the Prime Minister, after you have met the leaders of Europe at the various meetings in Europe, what is the situation on that European market at the moment? Is there a demand for consumption that the Finnish industry would be able to sell good products in order to achieve a growth path in the economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u15	Madam President! Europe is on the rise, and Finland has not reached that rate of growth. So there is demand — when we get things in order to be competitive, when we get confidence back in the market, when we get investment back on the road, we can get on with it. This is in our own hands. I believe that tomorrow, if this competitiveness solution is created, this will contribute to increasing confidence. In Åland, for example, this decision by the potato chips factory was one of the factors behind the fact that the competitiveness agreement brings long-term visibility and predictability to competitiveness. It is a good example of how investors and employers think about how the work is done in Finland. Finnish companies can manage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u16	Madam President! When we started building a social pact, the government expressed its will that we should work more than 100 hours, and then I was not really open to how it will increase employment and bring efficiency to the export industry. Now that one of the elements of the competitiveness pact is the three-day longer working time, I would like to ask Mr Lindström, Minister of Labour — and Mr Stubb, Minister of Finance, if he wishes to reply: How does this increase employment, for example in the trade sector, which has a very large number of part-time workers and some work 37.5 hours? When these 37.5 hours of work begin to work for more than three days, how can it employ more in that sector of commerce — this is not going to work for me — or when working longer than three days, how will it bring more tax revenues to the State so that these public finance services can be financed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u17	Madam President! Mr Myllykoski is right in the sense that it is very difficult to say so frankly that it would now become what we are trying to achieve here. The big picture, however, is that competitiveness and productivity are sought here, and when people are making a longer day, that is what they are trying to do. I understand this math myself, and it is quite difficult for me to open it for you, because I have not always understood how this is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u18	Madam President! In this thinking by Mrs Myllykoski, it is a mistake that the amount of work should be constant. Then you will think that what it will do will be true if working time is increased and the amount of work is constant. But here, for example, the cost of work is now falling, i.e. the competitiveness of work will be improved by 1.5% only through this extension of working time. As work becomes more competitive, the amount of work will increase and thus employment will improve. This is a very clear chain, and the social partners themselves have also estimated that this package will have an employment impact of 45,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u19	Mr President! The Prime Minister answered this question in an excellent way, and even the experts of the left and the trade union movement understand this very well. In my opinion, in this Chamber, the left is now making itself more stupid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u20	Madam President! Now, if you look at the very low-paid store cashier who would like to work full-time, but at the moment the zero-hour contract offers a few hours or part-time 20 hours, how will this low-payer who is now unable to make a living increase in work and pay if full-time employees make an even longer day? Or when in the public sector a local nurse, a nurse — or a midwife who has been used a lot — is working longer, are already under strain, are working too hard, there is a lot of sick leave, so how does it result in more work for these public sector professions? That means that employment will deteriorate in the services sector and in the public sector, especially since your so-called tax reduction is not a tax reduction, but only compensation for taking workers first and giving them to employers. Minister Lindström, can you open this equation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u21	Madam President! It is the equation, as the Prime Minister has just said, that when competitiveness improves, we will have investment in this country and we will have more jobs in this country through it. If we take a particular sector, as you have set an example here, you were talking about zero-hour contracts, then I myself have called for fair rules to be laid down. I do not personally accept the zero-hour agreements in the current way, but we really need to have systems that make them fair. But this comes from this whole picture: industry, the public side, all this, private. Here comes the competitiveness, from there comes money to this country so that we can maintain this current public sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u22	Madam President! As far as taxation is concerned, I will therefore answer Mr Arhinmäki's question. Of course, it is clear that the first step in our tax solution, i.e. 315 million, is a direct payment compensation, and it goes as if it were a zero solution. It is therefore now up to employees' organisations whether they are prepared to agree comprehensively and to increase the overall coverage of the competitiveness pact. If this happens, then the clerk in the store you refer to will have tax relief, downhill, and he will have more money left in his hand. And the more comprehensive it is, the more money you get left in your hands. In my opinion, this will at least benefit, or would you like us to cancel those tax reductions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u23	Madam President! Concerns have been expressed about the survival of pensioners as well as the employment situation. I would like to remind you that the Government has taken a decision to increase the guarantee pension twice from the beginning of this year, and whether it was the next time that the guarantee pension was increased from the beginning of 2018. This is a progressive and very important issue. It may seem small, but it's significant. We should support people's employment. More and more people work in their own home. We have a reform of family carers and family carers here in the government and in the parliament, and it encourages family carers, among other things, to act as carers for their loved ones and also for the elderly. I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Minister, what kind of carrots and methods, what incentives would you offer and provide, among other things, family carers and family carers, so that they can carry out these important tasks?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u24	Madam President! There is a law at the heart of this Parliament, which is to improve the status of family carers: to enable and ensure holidays, to ensure that the place where the family carer takes the day off is accessible. The family nurse's fee will be increased. Their holidays will be ensured that they are able to arrange them on an annual basis. The government is investing EUR 75 million in this new money, which is aimed specifically at enabling family carers and family carers to perform their own tasks better than at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u25	Mr President! But the big news today is probably this tax solution that the government made. I would like to congratulate the government for taking this specific decision — that clearly was the expectation value, both for employees' organisations and for employers, that we know what the government will do with taxes if this wage settlement goes through widely. Now it is known, and the organisations will then be able to think about how they will react. But I'll be back... and Mr. Stubb already knows what I'm going to ask. Of course, when it comes to making this tax decision, it is absolutely crucial that the various population groups are treated in a fair way. Wage and salary earners will receive compensation for these withdrawals — it is not, of course, a real reduction — but then comes to this question by Mrs Viitanen, who says how other groups of the population and pensioners will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u28	Madam President! I will respond in the same way as Mr Viitane. In other words, when this solution comes about, the taxation of pensioners will not be tightened and some will in any case be reduced when the scales are reduced. At this stage we will define its size, later we will define its profile, and even during this term of government we will try to find a solution that is fair and fair for all, pensioners and workers. These are the tax decisions we make every year. So the answer will be exactly the same until we make that final tax decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u29	Madam President! Competitiveness agreement negotiations are at a delicate stage, while the Metal Association and the PAM in the service sector are still negotiating today and tomorrow for their own coming. Like Mr Heinäluoma, I am very pleased that the government has now improved considerably at the end. Many times I myself have spoken in this Chamber about the kind of measures that the government has actually done to undermine rather than promote the negotiations on the competitiveness pact, but now we have to raise our hats. First of all, Mr Lindström, you have withdrawn this planned work sample experiment as it stands, and secondly, this tax relief solution will certainly facilitate the situation of the negotiators by tomorrow. I would like to ask that, when final decisions are made on this tax solution, I hope that it will take better account of the low incomes than the rest of us, and I would like to see some openings as to what you can tell us about this tax relief profile.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u30	Madam President! At this stage, it is not possible to tell exactly what the angle of its tax profile will be, as it were. That's what we'll see in August at the end of the game. But we are also trying to deal with this tax package as a whole — as it is defined in our government programme. In principle, we assume that payment compensation will be made for all income categories and with the same profile as payment increases in the past. So, against this background, you can go down, but at this point you cannot give an exact answer. In any case, we are trying to reduce the tax burden on Finns in order to improve purchasing power. That is our starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u31	Madam President! A great deal of new jobs need to be created in Finland, and these are born precisely in small and medium-sized enterprises — that is the hope of our economy at the moment. That is why this local agreement would be so vitally important to keep up with this competitiveness pact. Yesterday, however, you said, Prime Minister Sipilä, that this decision makes no sense when you described the absence of Finnish entrepreneurs from this local agreement, precisely because of this situation of unorganised employers. We have freedom of association in Finland, it concerns both employees and employers. However, this compromise was largely negotiated by the EK and employees' organisations. Would it not now be important for Finnish Entrepreneurs to be genuinely involved in this negotiation of local agreements and to be able to create the rules by which local agreements are to be taken forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u32	Madam President! Finnish Entrepreneurs have been involved in this Timonen working group, which has dealt with this issue. In this context of the Competitiveness Pact, this status of non-organised employers would have improved and improved so that unorganised employers now enjoy the same rights as organised employers without having to join the Confederation of Finnish Industries. This has also been a long-term goal for Finnish Entrepreneurs. This is the direction in which this compromise was made and is taking us in the right direction. No employer would have to agree accordingly, it is entirely voluntary, but this would have made it possible for everyone to exercise the rights of those collective agreements if they so wished. That is what this was all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u33	And one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u34	Mr President! Engineers, tradenomims, cleaners, drivers, waiters, kindergarten teachers and nurses, to name a few professionals, are carrying a heavy burden of responsibility on the one hand because of the competitiveness agreement, on the other hand, the increase in government cuts and service charges. These just ordinary neighbors have earned their wages and services and decent working conditions and safety net. Prime Minister Sipilä, I hope for the best, but I fear the worst, is that the unfair economic adjustment you have chosen and granted will cut the conditions for Finns to recover from the seven-year recession. I am also afraid that the increase in working time and the reduction in wages will not remedy the situation as you wish. Prime Minister Sipilä, where are we going to cut, what are you going to do if this doesn't work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u35	Madam President! Indeed, we have been in a state like this for eight years now, where the economy has gone downhill. At the end of last year, a gentle turn was made. This year, economic growth is forecast at around 1%. We should get on the road to economic growth of at least 2% so that this can also be seen in employment, and that is our common goal. We have seen that the means used so far do not bring the desired results. We need new ways. One of the new means for the government is this competitiveness pact, which we have been wringing for 13 months now. Let's hope it gets to the finish line tomorrow. Together with the social partners, we have estimated that it would bring between 35,000 and 45,000 new jobs. I believe in this assessment. In addition, much more is needed to ensure that the economy is starting to grow and that there is no need for further cuts. The government assumes that these actions will be carried out, whatever is necessary,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u36	Next question, Congressman Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u37	Mr President! This government is in many ways undermining the purchasing power of people, especially those on low and middle incomes. The competitiveness package cuts people's salaries significantly and it is good that it is now compensated by a tax solution. It should be targeted particularly at people with low and middle incomes, but there are other measures which are particularly hard on families with children and on our education system. And that is why, now that we are in this situation, if we can move on from this point of view, we should now ensure that all government measures support employment. We know that there is one proposal in Parliament that does not really do it — it is difficult for children, the right of the child to early education, but it is also difficult for the employment of women — that is to say, the increase in childcare fees. So I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education that, when these nurses, the police, the social workers, the middle-income people, may have to pay thousands of euros more per year for day care fees, are you prepared now to withdraw this increase in day care fees from the Parliament in order to secure their position and improve the employment situation of women?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u38	Madam President! The question was specific and related to increases in day care fees. If I do not recall quite correctly, then in the Government Programme we estimate that the overall saving for that sector would be around EUR 56 million. We have calculated this whole again and found that this is not going to happen. Now we are looking at the whole and we are looking at it, of course, from the point of view of central government finances, we are looking at it from the point of view of employment, we are looking at it from the point of view of fairness, and we are also looking at it from the point of view of purchasing power. So at this point, Mr Niinistö, we cannot give an exact answer to your excellent question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u39	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u40	Mr President! This was already very positive news from the Minister of Finance that you have responded to this very critical statement by experts, and also by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health here in Parliament, that this would make it more difficult for women to find employment, and the child's right to early education is also in the best interests of the child. If the employment rate were to deteriorate as a result of this reform, its effects would in many ways be negative for women, but also for children. Now that many big cities have already announced, most of the decision-makers in Helsinki, for example, have said that: Helsinki would not introduce this increase in day care fees, and it would also have a regionally unequal effect. In particular, the municipalities of Eastern and Northern Finland and poor rural municipalities would have to increase the fees, so that their children and their women would suffer and their working lives would suffer, but large cities could afford to keep payments lower if there was a political majority who wanted to invest in it. This seems very unfair, and I would also ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen if you would see this injustice and cancel it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u41	Mr President! I am glad that this issue came up during this Question Time and we are talking about early childhood education. We are just finishing negotiations with universities at the Ministry of Education and Culture on the upcoming contract period, and early childhood education has also been strongly on the agenda. In other words, we will significantly and permanently increase the number of kindergarten teachers who are trained at a university, which will respond to, among other things, the situation in the capital region where there is a shortage of trained kindergarten teachers. This also makes it possible for early childhood education to develop in terms of content, its pedagogy to be strengthened, and when other work is done in this context, such as the foundations of early childhood education for the first time in the Finnish National Board of Education, we can carry early childhood education forward in terms of content in a difficult economic situation. I am also very pleased that we are going to go through this issue of early childhood education payments within the government and see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u42	Mr President! It was good to hear that the government is reconsidering this disproportionate increase in child care fees for many middle-income and relatively low-income families. In fact, if you did not cancel it, government measures would reduce the income of families with children by half a billion euros in the next two years. Sometimes it seems that the impact assessment of children has not been adequately taken into account in government decisions. Are you now going to strengthen the impact assessment on children? Take, for example, your alcohol decision to import four cells and soda into grocery stores. Have you considered, among other things, the impact it has on the children of alcoholic families?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u43	Mr President! Impact assessments will be carried out as well and carefully as possible in the preparation of available legislation. And when you brought up the change in alcohol law, the overall reform, one of the most essential elements of the preparation is to carry out an impact assessment. Before the law can be in parliament, those impact assessments must be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u44	Mr President! Värderade Talman! Regeringen föreslår en betydande höjning i dagvårdsavgifterna. Vi vet att quinnors sysselsättningsgrad i Finland är betyligt lägre än den är i Sverige, i synnerhet i åldern 30-40år. Det kommer att förvärra situationen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u45	Värderade Talman! Ledamot Adlercreutz är på rautt väg när han undertryker att sysselsättningsnivån för kvinnor i Sverige i vis åldersgrupper är högre. Ledamot Adlercreutz är också på rätt väg när Han analyzerar att vårt förslag inte är ett sysselsättningsfrämjande förslag.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u46	Madam President! Yesterday we had an additional budget in the course of our deliberations, and the government provided additional funds for the funding of family and family carers for the municipalities. This is where Mr Niinistö said that it may vary from one municipality to another, and in some way I would think that this relates to local self-determination. As I recall, the government does not assign new tasks to municipalities without additional funding. After all, the municipalities have been in difficulty when these central government shares have been cut in recent years. Will the government stick to the line that there will be no more tasks for municipalities without additional funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u47	Yeah, he's gonna hold on to it. We have written in the Government Programme that if more tasks are given to municipalities, a 100% central government share will be included. In other words, when we know how weak the state finances, the public finances are at the moment, that is a pretty good limit to the fact that the government will not have the passion to give more tasks to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u48	Mr President! It is very good to hear that, after months and months of persistent work by opposition parties, the government is finally seeing the light.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u49	Mr President! However, I would like to make it clear that both in the existing legislation and in what is currently being discussed in Parliament, early childhood education is free of charge for these most vulnerable families, i.e. low-income families, and thus social justice is realised. And what we are aiming for is for an increasing number of children to be able to participate in early childhood education, that is to say, to increase the level of participation. For example, in groups such as migrant groups, early childhood education could be such a part of the educational system that supports the way of learning later. Studies show that early childhood education is a very effective part of our education system. In this respect, I believe it is important that we can also, in a difficult economic situation, strengthen participation in early childhood education and support the possibility for all families to participate in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u50	Madam President! Last week I had a conversation with a single mother of four children in a hundred who had just entered into negotiations and was unemployed. At least his angle of income and attitude encouraged me as Minister of Finance. He said we'd get through this and we'd find a new job. Now we must remember that there is a turning point in Finland. Between 12, 13 and 14 our economy contracted. In 15 our economy grew by 0.5 per cent, this year by about one per cent. If the competitiveness pact is reached, I strongly believe that this first difficult year of adjustment and cuts will bring economic growth to Finland and will also improve the employment situation. This is the first year when unemployment is not increasing in Finland. I would like us to be able to concentrate on the positive colour that we see in Finland after eight years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u51	Mr President! I must thank the government for not feeling as hopeless as it has often been in this debate, but we have now come up with answers in this debate and clearly also to recognise that many cuts are detrimental to employment. If you move on from taking measures to support employment and avoiding decisions that undermine the everyday lives and purchasing power of ordinary people and restricting the rights of children, that is the right direction and I encourage you to go in that direction. But, Mr President, the problem is, of course, that the policies already decided by the government are in the process of being implemented and that the situation of children will be deteriorating in the future if the cuts now decided are to be implemented. That's why I'm asking: How do you see that it is possible to make up for the fact that, for example, the increase in group sizes and the restriction of the right to full day-care in many day-care centres weakens the participation of young immigrants in the early childhood education that the Minister for Education has just spoken of warmly? How can you correct these mistakes, which, in fact, undermine the right of children to education and education, of which you have now said that it is an important value?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u52	Mr President! The position of children, families with children and all Finns will be weakened if we do not get the Finnish economy in order. This has been discussed today in this Chamber, and all the measures we have discussed are aimed at it: the competitiveness pact, tax solutions and all the solutions that we are currently taking to reform our education system, among other things. We have had to make painful cutbacks and it has been absolutely mandatory to do so, because our economy is not at present in balance and we are in debt so that these debts are passed on to future generations if this course is not reversed. And fortunately, during this first year of operation, the government has been determined to move in the direction that we have a healthy economy, that we have the opportunity today to talk about the prospect of growth on the horizon, that we can talk about Finland turning around.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u53	Next question, Mr. Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u54	Mr President! The final report of the working group preparing the social and health reform was published on Tuesday. It sets out, among other things, broad freedom of choice for health care. Freedom of choice as such is not a bad thing, but I was concerned about extending it to school health care in particular. The first - graders who start their school courses often meet at school as the first person to see a nurse who performs an entrance check on the children. The nurse is responsible for ensuring that each child receives a health check and appropriate vaccinations. The nurse is also part of a multiprofessional student care group. So I ask you, Minister: how will we ensure that schools have their own nurse in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u55	Madam President! There are a number of different elements in the construction of social and health care change, one of which is that we are trying to make solutions for the most crumbling part of services, that is to say, the basic part of services, so that we can achieve a better level. Indeed, since Tuesday this week's presentation by the group of rapporteurs on freedom of choice and financial change has been public, and the work will continue so that the government, for its part, will draw up guidelines on further preparation and the preparation of the section in the coming weeks. All the tasks that fall within the scope of freedom of choice will be specified during the preparation process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u56	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u57	Mr President! Can it be interpreted from this Minister's speech between the lines that the matter will be considered and, in particular, the preservation of school nurses in schools will be reconsidered? It is very important that we continue to ensure that all children are properly checked and that vaccinations are in order. There is also an old saying that the whole village will raise children. Personally, I think it is very important that there is a multiprofessional working group, teachers, curators, psychologists and nurses at school, and that we are still raising all children. Minister, I very much welcome this news that you are still looking at it. Is this the case, therefore, that this decision can still be reversed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u58	Madam President! First, there should be the decision that can be reversed. This debate is extremely difficult because here too, Mr Pekonen, you have read the title, you have read two lines, you have read one sideline since then and then you will come here at oral Question Time to claim that this is what has been decided. One thing and another important matter of principle, which is unresolved, is whether school health care is in the future the responsibility of the municipality or whether it is the responsibility of the province. This is one fundamental issue. The third essential question is that children, as was the case with your first question, will continue to have access to the services of a nurse. That's the point. It's been and will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u59	Mr President! Yes, I've read that report, and it wasn't a sideline or just a headline. It remains to be wondered whether it is worth believing in these reports if, here in the Chamber, the message about the content of the report changes. I do believe that, even after this reform, every child and schoolchild will have access to the services of a nurse, but I believe that what is essential is whether it is part of the school community and whether it is part of the multidisciplinary working group. This is the question that worries me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u60	Madam President! I am concerned about the same question: the fact that the child has a sufficient number of health care services, both the services of the nurse and, if necessary, the medical services, and that they are close to the school, close to the community in which the day-to-day life of the student, the school student, is. Secondly, I heard interludes that I had somehow misanswered. So it may be that I replied incorrectly, but the working group that Mats Brommels was drawing up, whose task was to lay down guidelines on the way in which freedom of choice is created, mainly for basic services and, where appropriate, for special services in this country, has made its own proposal. That listing and those papers aren't exhaustive either. There are many lines of border that will have to be drawn over the next few weeks and months. The time of the borderlines that is to be carried out will take months to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u61	Mr President! This school health care is one example of where this model, on which the government has made decisions and policies, can now lead, i.e. the public social and health services of our municipalities are now being incorporated and private service providers are becoming service providers alongside them. Many experts, including the National Institute for Health and Welfare, have questioned this proposal and expressed serious concern that this integration is now being dissolved, this compatibility with the various services. The aim of the reform of social and health care was quality, effectiveness and fair access. Now the government is going to save EUR 3 billion over a period of 10 years, and it has been reported publicly that a separate service promise is also being prepared. Now I ask the Prime Minister: is it the intention for the government to draw up a separate service promise which, in fact, restricts citizens' services in order to achieve that cost savings?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u62	Madam President! Firstly, this saving of EUR 3 billion is not a saving for the present, but a saving against the sustainability gap, i.e. the rising cost development that we have as a result of ageing. These services provided by municipalities now fall under the responsibility of organising the provinces. It needs bigger shoulders, now that there have been about 300 organizers and there will be 18 organizers in the future. The fact that the number of organisers will be reduced will ensure some of this savings of 3 billion compared to the sustainability gap. I believe that this is a good basis for that reform now. There are still numerous details that need to be completed in the next year. I am confident that we will have a good preparation for this and that we will achieve a good result.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u63	Madam President! As the Prime Minister has just said, we are not saving EUR 3 billion from social spending, but the reform is designed to break the increase in that expenditure. Another important goal is that we can get better services all over Finland, above all in basic services. But the public is particularly concerned about this dimension of freedom of choice, so that it does not mean that the spike is open. So I'm gonna ask the board members: What do you answer to the people who are concerned about whether taxes will be paid to Finland in the future? And how, for example, is the third sector relevant to the provision of services?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u64	Madam President! There were a number of questions, but at the heart of it was how we could make our euro sufficient. One of the essential elements of this report is, on the one hand, that each of us should commit to a service provider for a limited period of time. What the deadline is will be important for us to have a situation in which our euro is sufficient. This is absolutely essential. This is one aspect of this. Secondly, as regards service providers and how to secure the third sector and the private sector. We will have a model in which quality will have greater significance than price. Those who meet certain criteria that commit themselves to service production, which commit themselves to caring for people... It is the instrument used to ensure that there can be more than just a public operator as service providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u65	Värderade fru talman! Valfriheten ger också öjligheter, om den skots pårätt jätt. Och det ger också öjligheter att producera tjänster till exempel på svenska.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u66	Madam President! This government has chosen its policy during this whole process of preparing social and health care and regional reform, that we should tell you when there is something to tell. Another option would be that the government would have sat in the cabinet for a year and four days and would expect what would become of that cabinet. We also have open questions on important issues: freedom of choice, for example, those services which are at the basic level of freedom of choice — the general rule, as the government has stated — which are the specific services which are at the level of freedom of choice. This definition has not been made. Secondly, Mr Henriksson, when you asked whether the law is recorded in both Finnish and Swedish, I can and dare promise: yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u68	Mr President! One of the key objectives of social and health reform is the integration of basic and special services in order to move smooth care chains and focus to basic services, to help people with their illnesses and problems at an earlier stage. Then, too, the objective described by Prime Minister Sipilä to break the sustainability gap by EUR 3 billion will be possible by reducing the costly costs. But now, in this working group's proposal, the aim of vertical integration, i.e. the integration of basic and special services, remains weak. So I ask you, Minister Ruhula: how do you assess this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u69	Madam President! I am leaving Mr Haatainen's speech because you, Mr Haatainen, mentioned the objectives of this change: quality, effectiveness and justice. Similarly, the aim of this change is to ensure that social and health services are closely integrated and that this integration is the instrument that works. For example, we are dealing with an absolutely essential issue in terms of the movement of information. There will be no freedom of choice, there will be no social security, there will be no equality of services, there will be no future of on-call services if we do not get information to move around in this country so that the information of each person is always available when the services are needed. This integration is one of the essential elements of the work currently being written into the articles: what does it ultimately involve, and how is it to be ensured, above all, that there is always a professional bearer, whether it is a break in the leg or a person who requires a multi-professionalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u70	Mr President! Cost-effectiveness in this social welfare reform had to come from these integration objectives; better service for citizens had to come from the achievement of these integration objectives. Now this integration threatens to fail when the service system is fragmented into countless companies and private service providers. The question arises as to how many people with problems are navigating in this future corporate jungle. How do we ensure that responsibility for all these weakest and access to their services is fulfilled? Do we need to create a completely new profession to help them navigate in this service jungle? And what will happen if the social services centre can send customers forward without having to contribute to the cost payment when this service integration in special and basic health care, what is being sought, does not happen? It was precisely here that it was thought that this cost-effectiveness would be created. It is difficult to see how this EUR 3 billion saving can be achieved without weakening the services now that this social welfare reform has become such a business reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u71	Madam President! A person whose powers are insufficient due to illness or self-inflicted situation does not need his own navigator to cope with this whole. We must build legislation in such a way that he too is taken care of in these situations. From the perspective of a normal person, for example, the change in freedom of choice is likely to be such that he hardly even notices it, will only be alternatives to basic services, and it is now, first and foremost, and most concrete in terms of health care that alternative doors will be opened. But now that any of you are painting the future to which you are going, first of all, the public authority is always responsible for ensuring that the services are available. Secondly, improving basic services is absolutely essential if we are to make enough money for us. And thirdly, with regard to this integration: I very much understand the concerns about what will happen to this integration. In my previous reply, I gave an example:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u72	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. This is presented by Minister Vehviläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u73	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law amending the State Civil Service Act contains three key changes. Firstly, the possibility of transferring personnel between central government organisations will be facilitated. Secondly, a qualifying contract may limit the use of information obtained in a new service relationship. Thirdly, the right of appeal of a State official to the Supreme Administrative Court will be changed so as to require an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Mr President! An official may now, with his or her consent, be transferred to work in another office for a limited period. In the future, it would be possible for an official, with his own agreement, to work part of his working time for another agency or for an employer other than the State. The working time of an official could therefore be divided between several jobs. The aim of the reform is to make more flexible use of expertise between administrative sectors and government agencies. The number of tasks could be better levelled out by temporarily allocating the State's human resources to places where their need is high. Then it's about the carnage. At present, the civil servant’s confidentiality and the prohibition of the use of confidential information also extend to parts of the post-office period, in accordance with both the Publicity Act and the Criminal Code. However, the current provisions do not always effectively prevent situations where information protected by the provisions can be used in a new service relationship or activity for the benefit of one or another or to the detriment of another. The new provision now provides an opportunity to agree on a maximum period of 12 months. The aim of this period is to protect the public interest and the impartiality of official activities and to prevent possible corruption when officials move to the private sector. It is intended that, when an official starts after the limitation period, his knowledge in other positions would have lost the meaning that it could be used in a material way to the benefit of someone else or to the detriment of someone else. A qualifying contract could be a condition for appointment or transfer to a new post. This proposal is presented by the State Commission on Civil Service Ethics in its report of 2014 and, of course, comes into this State Civil Service Act. Mr President! The present proposal therefore concerns the State Civil Service Act. The addition of the criterion to the legislation on municipal and provincial officials is also currently being assessed in the context of the social and regional reform, as we make these legislative changes and reforms. In this context, we will also assess whether municipal and future provincial officials should also be regulated in this respect in respect of the issue of toughness. Mr President! I am very aware that the same law should not be brought to Parliament with regard to the changes that have been made, every few months. I know this very well. Nevertheless, I would also like to say here that there are other changes to the State Civil Service Act which will be submitted to Parliament during the autumn session. First of all, in its letter to the Government, Parliament has required that the Government urgently prepare a proposal to abolish the suspension of an appeal against the decision on appointment to office and office. This is in preparation for the Treasury Department and will be here in the fall. Secondly, regarding dual nationality: In the case of persons with dual nationality, changes are being made to the State Civil Service Act to the extent that we are going to make it more difficult for them to take office in the State. I was given a working group report on this last year and we are in the process of preparing it, and these will also come to the same package of changes that I will bring here in the autumn. Thirdly, the Ministry of Finance is preparing an amendment to the State Civil Service Act, which in future could also provide for a temporary extension of the service after the official's retirement age.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u74	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the State Civil Service Act, inter alia, in order to allow a State official to be transferred to work for a limited period of time also in tasks falling within the competence of another agency or in the service of an employer other than the State. The current State Civil Service Act provides for the temporary transfer of an official, the temporary transfer of posts and officials, and the making available of an official. In addition, there are specific provisions relating to the transfer of officials and the obligation to move. On the basis of Article 5 of the same Civil Service Act, the post may also be transferred within the same agency to a body other than that in which it was established and to another agency other than that specified in the budget. This provision makes it possible to transfer a post completed to another office with the consent of an official. The post may also be transferred to another office without the consent of the official appointed to it if the post is transferred to the official’s place of employment or region of employment. This possibility has been used, among other things, in the police organisation, albeit rarely. One of the objectives of this proposal is to make more flexible use of expertise between administrative sectors and government agencies and to level out the number of tasks by temporarily allocating the State's human resources more flexibly to where their need is greatest. I hope that this is not the point that will be misused after this presentation. At least there is a great deal of opportunity for this to happen when an official or his activities do not seem to anyone else's liking. The first thing that comes to mind, at least for myself, is the persecution of the President-in-Office of the current Customs and, possibly, the transfer of tasks to the Government. I do not believe that the future mission is due to the need of the Government, but that it is tailored primarily to move him away from the duties of the Director-General of Customs. As a whole, I find this kind of activity inappropriate. The task that has been presented to him is primarily within the administrative field of the Ministry of the Interior. According to my information, in this process, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been asked to find a suitable role for him in their field of administration. In my view, the proposal does not fulfil the condition of making available to the Government, in accordance with Article 22 of the State Civil Service Act, for a valid reason and an important task. The principle of purpose-relatedness is also one of the legal principles of the administration. It contains a general obligation to exercise jurisdiction only for the purpose for which it is legally defined or intended to be used. I do not believe that this principle is fulfilled in this case either. The Director-General of Customs wishes to continue his duties. Customs, under his leadership, has achieved all the objectives that have recently been set for it. All the major projects under way are also progressing as planned. I do not think that the situation in Customs will improve by changing the President-in-Office, but other changes in the operation and composition of the management team are necessary. Madam President! As I said at the beginning of my speech, this proposal proposes to amend the State Civil Service Act, inter alia, so that an official can be transferred to work for a limited period in the duties of another agency or in the employment of an employer other than the State. I think that this is a good change, but when transferring an official, more emphasis should be placed on the official's own consent. No one must be forced into another job, not even when they want to get rid of him. As a profession, leadership is something you don't always like. Of course, it would be a good thing for the director if they liked his management style, but that is not a basic requirement for the running of the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u75	Mr President! Within a week, the Constitutional Committee has issued an opinion on the Government's Annual Report 2015. During the last parliamentary term, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to civil servants' legislation, to the regulation of civil service law, and, in fact, in the last couple of parliamentary years, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already drawn attention to the fact that there is no right of appeal for appointment to office and office, as the Minister has already referred to here. At two stages I myself have been involved in the Constitutional Committee on these issues, and the Constitutional Committee has had a very long debate on whether this lack of right of appeal is such a lack of legislation that it should be amended to put it on the back of the press, a demand that this should be achieved. However, it has been considered reasonable and appropriate that a very strong recommendation has been made to bring about this change, so that a wide range of considerations can then be used when the change is properly prepared and that, in the context of the overall reform, when the civil servants' law is returned, this issue would be thoroughly pursued. It is important because it is relevant to the provision of Article 21(1) of the Constitution that everyone has the right to have a decision on his rights and obligations before a court or other independent judicial body. That is why the Committee's attention has been drawn to this by the constitutional experts who visited the committee, and that is why we have on several occasions — most recently in 2015 when the opinion on the law on Parliament's officials was issued — paid serious attention to this, and now it is good to hear, and it has just been heard that this is in the process of preparation and in the autumn it appears that we will return to this issue in the form of a bill. This change is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance. When we had the debate on the adoption of this opinion and wanted to maintain this statement further — as is always the case when the government's annual report is being discussed, so now we are maintaining it — we stated in our statement that this includes a great many dimensions. The situations in which state law on civil servants is the basis of decision-making are very diverse and concern officials in very different situations, their rights and the possibilities for selection and redress that may be actualised, and that is why the preparatory work requires thorough work, and it is of course important that this be done with due care. In its opinion, the Committee stresses that future legislative drafting should take into account Article 21 of the Constitution. In addition,the requirements and the wayin which good The committee continues to consider it important that the drafting of the law is carried out carefully, because the project has a significant impact on the functioning of the state administration — not just on individual rights but, of course, on the functioning of the state administration as a whole. It would be nice to hear if the Minister could shed light on something concrete about the way forward and the stage in which we are going. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u76	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation and advance information on these other possible changes to the State Civil Service Act. After all, as early as the autumn, the Administrative Committee dealt with the municipal contract law, which raised, as the state had done, the retirement age, and then, perhaps accordingly, this law, which is now under discussion, is followed by the amendment of the municipal civil service law. But, in fact, the question that this bill dealt with the possibility of using the staff of another agency — that percentage was estimated to be relatively low, but it is certainly necessary: what is going to happen to these, the open and the elys in the future? And then, as has also been mentioned and raised, how do you assess the possibilities of digitalisation in the implementation of this law? What can it bring at its best?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u77	Mr President! I shall now respond specifically to Mr Mattila's question. As far as this digitalisation is concerned, in all this reform we now have this great administrative reform, the regional reform, the reform of the central administration and the fact that we are also doing one national aid, digitalisation must be very important because we have already stated in the Government Programme that we have the primary objective of making digital public services. It will mean that we will have to concreteise it all the time. But then I shall come back to this, perhaps to what extent this flexibility is partly used to do work in another agency. I think that it gives us good opportunities in this initial situation. We have a lot of intersectoral projects, reforms, all the time going on, and everyone looking only at its own narrow sector always has a serious lack of resources somewhere else. This will provide opportunities for us to even out and for people's skills to be used in other agencies and in different government institutions, and then they will also gain new experience. I consider this to be a very important question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u78	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 9/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u79	Madam President! The proposal proposes to introduce a law on the production area of high quality seed potatoes. The proposed law would repeal the law on potato cultivation requirements for high quality seed potatoes in the area of production. I believe that the proposal is necessary and appropriate. The district of Tyrnävä and Liminka municipalities is very important for the maintenance of domestic seed potatoes and also for ensuring security of supply. The government’s proposal can contribute to raising the quality of the crop and thus safeguard the production of a good quality potato. This would be in the interest of all of us Finnish potato eaters. Food potato producers in the above-mentioned regions are obliged to purchase a new seed of at least class E per year. This has resulted in additional costs for them compared to other food potato producers in Finland. These additional costs have no longer been compensated by state resources since 2011. However, seed production benefits from the very good plant health situation in the region and the status of a high-quality seed potato production area. At the same time, it means that all Finnish potato eaters benefit from this, which unfortunately are fewer every year. While consumption of potatoes is growing strongly in Asia, South America and Africa, potato consumption is decreasing in Finland. In 50 years, the consumption of potatoes has decreased by 70 per cent in Finland. In the 21st century, the annual consumption of potatoes has remained around 50 to 60 kg per person, while in the 1950s the consumption of potatoes was still around 180 kg. Today, pasta and rice are increasingly replacing potatoes at the table, even though potato growers, freezers and industry are trying to reverse the trend. Hopefully, the domestic, healthyly grown potato in the nearby area will regain the status it deserves. Potato is a basic food for families, and it contains less energy than rice and pasta, so when boiled and roasted in the oven, the potato is also very suitable for a plate that monitors its weight. Food potato production in the areas mentioned at the outset also benefits from a safe production environment and proximity to seed management. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also stressed the need for non-legislative means for food potato and seed potato sectors to agree, through extensive cooperation, on the procedures for ensuring a fair balance between the interests of both sectors and the potential for further production.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-02-ps-63.u80	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 27 May.
