ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u2	Mr President! As part of the state budget, the Government proposes to amend the Act on the Financing of Education and Culture and the Act on Free Cultural Work. According to the Government Programme, a saving of EUR 190 million will be allocated to basic vocational education from 2017. The savings will be achieved by setting the number of students on the basis of the maximum amount of funding for vocational education and training at 12.44 % below the maximum number of students authorised to organise. The procedure enables savings to be made in the most appropriate way for each training provider, either by improving efficiency, reducing the number of real estate or reducing investment. The number of student places should not be reduced. I would like to stress that the education guarantee will continue to be implemented. For every young person who completes their comprehensive school, there is a place for further education in upper secondary school or vocational education. According to a study carried out by the Ministry of Education and Culture as official work for education and training providers, educational institutions are not planning to make savings next year by reducing the number of places to start. According to a study by the Ministry, the number of student seats remains at a good level in relation to the youth age group and the adult working-age population in the coming years. To support young people at risk of exclusion... [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : Minister for Foreign Affairs,rarely voting for a more frequent subscriber to the root of the vote,I
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, this speech by the Minister and this important matter may give rise to a few comments. I would therefore ask those representatives who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button. We're going to have a short debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u6	Mr President! I missed a second of the minister's speech, but if I understood it correctly, we did not take into account Bengt Holmström, who received our Nobel Prize in Economics. I think that the Finnish Parliament can congratulate the Nobel Prize on this extremely fine award. In this context, of course, I cannot ignore the fact that the Nobel Prize winner of economics has drawn attention to the government's cuts in education. He even said that 'intelligent insult to the entire scientific community', now referring specifically to universities, but at the very least he has considered the savings envisaged by the government to be unimaginable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u7	Congressman Gustafsson, we've exceeded time quite a bit. I hope that we will now remain as close as possible to the time allowed for a reply, which is therefore one minute. — Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u8	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this presentation. However, when you mentioned the search for youth work and this youth workshop, when next year the government cuts enormously from that secondary vocational education, EUR 190 million, have you taken any account of the extent to which the exclusion and fall of young people will increase due to your cuts, and how much increase would therefore be there in the multi-professional work carried out in the field of youth research, in cooperation with workshops and other actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u9	Mr President! As we know, this proposal is a pure austerity law, which means that it is an operation and not a structural reform. The organisers themselves have estimated that in large cities these savings will be reflected in reducing local education, increasing numbers of people and reducing staff, while in sparsely populated areas savings will also be made by reducing starting places, which will mean that regional access to education will be reduced. According to the Left Alliance, these savings are clearly oversized. At a time like this, it would be particularly worthwhile to invest in education and the well-being of young people, but I hope that we will finally be able to get an answer from the Minister today that, since you want to save money, why are these savings made in this way, in this march order, which first takes the money and only then does this legislative reform. This question has not yet been answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u10	Mr President! One can say that putting the state finances in order requires that we make bad savings — one can say that in this case we can also talk about bad savings when they are now being targeted at the educational sector. It must also be acknowledged that it would be better if we had been able to reform and reform before we go into surgery. But now I would like to stress that the providers of education still have the power of decision and the keys in their hands, that these cuts should be made so that they do not focus on the contact teaching and that it would not be the case that education and the resources of the pupils should be used to carry out these cuts in the first place — namely that the National Board of Education has examined that there is still room for concentration in secondary vocational education, which would increase the motivation of the students to be able to organise them more closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u11	Mr President! A few questions. It is known that this reform will be difficult overall, because savings will be made next year and then other legislation will not come until 2018, but at this stage, Mr President, a few questions will be asked. How is regional equality ensured in a way that enables the right to education for the entire age group, including in Southern Finland and other growth centres? How is the availability and accessibility of Swedish-speaking education ensured, taking into account small units of Swedish-speaking education in a wide area at higher costs? Has there been a linguistic impact assessment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u12	Mr President! This cut is tough, it is not a ban, but the government's broader approach to the reform of initial vocational training is behind it, not just a saving objective. In the face of these austerity measures and reforms, it is good to remember that, unfortunately, there was a great deal of cuts in education during the previous term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u15	Mr President! I will draw attention to this incompetent cut of 190 million before reform legislation is put in place and, of course, to the large amount of surgery. This is something that many other colleagues have addressed here. But in other words, there is also regional concern, namely that young people under 16 years of age in Eastern and Northern Finland already have the longest distances from secondary schools, and it is now to be feared that, if there is any austerity pressure, decisions will be taken to put an end to these different offices and to concentrate the starting points on larger centres. In this way, there is a risk that, especially for young men, whom we have been concerned about in this Chamber, the development of exclusion may be accelerated by the fact that the secondary institution will have to apply for it from an ever longer distance and perhaps will have to be caught up in the homes. So how to this regional
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u16	Mr President! It is not by talking away in itself that savings can be saved, but it is mainly the question of how the savings will be made. The savings will be made in such a way as to give the institution the power of decision to look at the best possible way in which this savings can be made in such a way as not to harm the quality of education itself, but also to ensure that any young person who is there at the school's door will also be able to study in the future. At the same time, the look is in the future. We know that the reform will come, it will be carried out, it will be done carefully, it will reflect on how to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy, give time for teaching, and in what way to carry out extensive qualifications instead of very exact small degrees. In that respect, it can be said that there are signs of a controlled step here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u17	Mr President! The decision-making powers of educational institutions, including the representative Lauslahti has just called for, in practice, that educational institutions are forced to save either in the number of teachers, 3800 teachers, or in the number of teaching hours — this saving would only have 2.5 days a week of contact teaching for pupils — or minus 18,000 places of study. Is this the decision-making power that the government parties are calling for? After these savings, how can a reform of vocational education and training be able to fix and reform anything? At the same time, there is talk of creative destruction, that as many as 37% of jobs will end in the coming years, and it is precisely to this great need for a change in working life that we in the education system should respond to. How can such an educational system respond to any further need for change?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u18	Mr President! During the previous government term too much was cut out of education, absolutely too much. That is why I myself held the chair in many panels, where every party promised that education would no longer be cut off. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, even after the election, you promised in your May Day speech that education will no longer be cut off, and now we have a massive cut in the hands of a professional second degree. Mr President! In the second stage, particularly on the professional side, early suspension is a major problem — the exclusion of young people from education and, consequently, from working life. This has been patched up by workshop activities, by detective youth work, by the skills programme for young adults, which are all good, and which fill these problems, but, Mr President, why are you cutting off local education?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u19	Mr President! Yes, in this Chamber, there is concern that education is the most important investment in Finland's future. This reform, which is now being carried out for the second stage, needs to be done with care, and I do not doubt that the government will consider it carefully and also think about the real needs of Finnish future training in working life, that we will certainly be able to look far enough also to what occupations and what kind of work, such as secondary vocational training, will prepare people for the future. In this preparation, I would like to thank you for having been able to react in time, as is necessary, in terms of vocational training for immigrants and, in general, in terms of training for the integration of immigrants, so that it is now rather than too late. I think it is important that the whole of Finland, but also the long-term uneducated immigrant women who may even be, should also be taken into account on a regional basis in this educational package for immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u20	Mr President! After all, there has been a very long-term, many years of work in Finland to increase the value of vocational education and training, a good example of which is that almost half of the age group chooses the route of vocational education in relation to upper secondary school education. And most importantly, the glass ceiling that used to be in vocational training to go to further studies has also been removed. In this view, of course, it is a bad thing for the needs of the labour market to make savings in vocational education and training, because the experience I have had in so many vocational schools is that quality is suffering, distances are increasing and the importance of education for pupils in this respect will be diminished. However, would it have been possible to assess both this restructuring and possible savings at the same time and not separately? This sounds like a very problematic structure. Similarly, we should not make sure that this post-graduate qualifications continue to be maintained for people in vocational education and training in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u21	Mr President! I would also like to add my congratulations to what has been heard here in this Chamber about the fact that a Finnish scientist received the Nobel Prize for Economics. Congratulations to Bengt Holmström. I believe that everyone in this Chamber will agree with that. A high-quality economic debate is also a prerequisite for good decision-making, and the appreciation of science and civilisation must be at the heart of Finnish society. Experts have therefore been very concerned that the government has cut so much from universities and research and product development that the future of science is at stake in that sense and many young talented researchers have either left or are considering going abroad. I know them a lot, and I have had conversations with them, and if you want to make progress in your career, many people will seriously think about this. I therefore ask the Minister: Don't you think it's time to cancel these college surgeries? The University of Helsinki, the most prestigious university in Finland, will be subjected to further cuts in the next budget due to the removal of pharmacy competition, so can we increase funding for higher education institutions, and how do you see that this situation in higher education institutions can be improved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u22	Mr President! I, too, congratulate Mr Holmström on the Nobel Prize for Economics and, like Mr Gustafsson, he has very good ideas. In addition to the harmful effects of the education savings already mentioned, he has focused on, among other things, the reform of the labour market and a great deal on incentives to work. I hope Mr Gustafsson agrees with these too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u25	At this stage in the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Östman, Krista Kiuru and Ala-Nissila, and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u26	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliament, like many professors, docents and Nobel Prize winners, wonders at the timing of the drastic savings in vocational education and training already next year, even though reform legislation will not enter into force until the beginning of 2018. After all, it is impossible to make savings in a controlled and strategically sustainable way when the reform guidelines are not yet known. Just as Mr Essayah said, urgent cuts will lead to ill-advised and counterproductive regional policy solutions. The decision will also have a detrimental effect on the employment situation. Has the government really wondered how Finland could afford to make such a bad presentation in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u27	Mr President! A good old guideline is that well-designed is half done. Now that we have been following this course for almost a year and a half, we cannot say that this is the case with this reform of vocational education and training. I am particularly concerned about whether anyone in Finland knows where this proposal, which has now been distributed to this table, leads. We in the state funds and the civilised section have paid particular attention to the number of places to start now. This presentation says that it can be at its worst 18,000 — 18,000 — starting places. I do not know whether Parliament has thought that it is a third of the starting places for the youth age group, or if it is not out of them, it is out of the whole adult education age group. I am truly sorry, Minister, that at the same time as the government is trying to increase employment and employment rates, you are increasing unemployment. It's inconceivable that not in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u28	Mr President! In the second largest section of the budget, savings have been made at the Ministry of Education and Culture. And, as Mr Zyskowicz said, this is no longer the place for a political game; it is now time to move on. It is very important in this Parliament to look at the effectiveness of these decisions, both in committee and in the section. This is also an opportunity to concentrate on education. We must also see that, in many areas, when there are major demands in secondary education — for example, in the direction of Turku, where the shipping trade is going and the warehouse is changing — it seems from Lokalahde to Loimaa — it is also important to have sufficient metal training now, because there is demand and young people to work there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u29	And before the Minister, Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u30	Mr President, värderade talman! I går upplevde vi alla en stor glädje när finländeren Bengt Holmström tilldelades Nobelpriset i economist, och Holmström har också förtjänstfult påtalat vikten av att vi slutar kära i utbildningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u31	Mr President! Warm congratulations to economist Bengt Holmström for his well-deserved international recognition. We have a lot to learn from him. In fact, in line with the recommendations of Bengt Holmström and the other two financial experts, the government has already launched preparations for the capitalisation of universities and universities of applied sciences in the context of the forthcoming spending limits debate. Today we have announced a working group that is preparing the proposal, it has actually started its work some weeks ago, and I will present to the government that Finland will capitalise on its universities and thereby strengthen confidence in the Government's vision that Finland will continue to be a country of high knowledge and education and research.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u34	Well, this shouldn't cause any further discussion. Well, I guess so. Let us take a few comments. First representative Kiuru, Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u35	Mr President! Thank you for allowing me to respond to these allegations by the Minister. It is good, therefore, that you pointed out that this reform was already being carried out during the last period, and it is good to say that during the last period Parliament decided that all seven of the seven parties, except the Coalition Party, voted against the fact that the savings in vocational education and training had been made by stopping the starting points. I think it is a pretty big signal to this new government, too, especially since the two opposition parties at the time are now in the government. I am not surprised at the fact that you voted in favour of it in the last government, but the position was taken here in Parliament that, by reducing the number of places to start, the reform of vocational education and training will not be carried out. And now, Minister, we have been calling for you to suggest that 190 million will come first and then be developed. Reform and development is not about saving. For some reason, these two words relate to your activities in a special way. Reform has come to you just to save, and this should not be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u36	Mr President! In several speeches, this imbalance or disorder has been raised in the fact that we go ahead of the cuts and then reform. It is quite obvious, at least from this point of view, that we have such a grey area between surgery and reform, from which no one can properly predict what will happen in the meantime and what will happen in the meantime. Now that this concern is being raised, at least I personally do not feel that the Minister would take a good look at that concern if, for example, the Minister has the kind of information that can dispel or eliminate this concern in a very concrete way. Or is it a question of the government being prepared to take these risks and see what happens in that grey area and sometimes? My second point, Mr President, is that in the previous speech Mr Saarikko made an important point about immigrants and vocational education and training, about women at home. The message is awfully clear that there are still many women at home who may even be illiterate, and it would be important to consider how to reach this group both through language training and through vocational training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u37	Mr President! In this regard, Minister Grahn-Laasonen said that these savings must now be made because the structural policy package of the previous government fell. If so, why did you not tell us about this in the election? Why did you go in the middle of promising that education would no longer be cut off when it was well known at the time that the previous entity fell at the end of the last reign? Then Mr Lauslahti said earlier that it is also a question of how savings are to be made. That's right. You are now implementing it as badly as possible when savings are made one year before the reform of the content of vocational education and training comes into force, which means that the providers of training do not have the means to carry out these cuts in any way other than by cutting off starting places, local education or staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u38	Mr President! In eight years, we have a debt of EUR 70 billion, and it is very unfortunate that the previous government has now passed these savings on to us because this reform is very challenging to do. At present, vocational training does not meet the needs of working life and changes in working life. For example, there is a shortage of employees and students in the metal industry. I would like to ask the Minister: in what way will companies now also be involved in this reform, because we need to get vocational training to the level that it deserves, given that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u39	Mr President! I agree with the congratulations of Nobel Prize winner Bengt Holmström — yesterday was a really great day — and what he said is worth a lot of research, but this long-standing concern about the importance of education and research is something that creates special significance. During the last parliamentary term, I was allowed to be in a demanding position for the President of Parliament and to follow the work of both the Chamber and the committees, and when the parliamentary term ended, I was left with the idea that, by leaving the Parliamentary Committee on Culture, this restructuring of vocational education and training was blocked. By leaving the committee meeting, the hearing was blocked and this lapsed. I understand that there were representatives of both the city centre and the Finns of Peru,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u40	Mr President! The savings in education, especially now in vocational education and training, are extremely disappointing, but this government proposal is not the same as the previous one. The first thing we are not going to do is to suggest that there should be fewer places to start training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u41	Mr President! It is good that we know in Oulu how to save and how to target these savings, but I can assure you that quite a few localities do not know how to proceed, what the legislation will bring, what this new financing law will bring, what it means in practice. It's no use trying to push responsibility here for the last season. It was not our fault: for example, as the RKP government party, we were taking this reform all the way to the end, it was brought down by a whole lot of other parties, and now we are in this swamp. Mr President! I would also like to ask: how is regional accessibility and accessibility ensured? And also: how
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u42	In this debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Essayah, Estila and Gustafsson, whose first response was actually the most lively debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u43	Mr President! We certainly have to return to this regional equality, because we did not receive an answer from the Minister. I believe when the Minister said that there will be no fewer places to start, but that certainly means in many areas in Finland, especially in Eastern and Northern Finland, that there will then be a centralisation, a drive down the offices and the distance between these secondary schools will be increased by these young students. The point that has not yet been raised in this debate — and I would like the Minister to comment on it too — is the cuts in liberal civilised work resulting from these kiky agreements. Many folk colleges, based on ideological, ideological — such as Christian — values, are amazed at these additional cuts because they have imagined that they are not such so-called public institutions if there is, for example, an association, a foundation or something like that in the background, and now they have to deal with these cuts in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u44	Mr President! 5.10. The day of teachers in the world was celebrated and many Members of Parliament visited various schools, and yesterday I myself spent as much as five hours discussing vocational education and training issues with teachers and students. However, one of these things, which to me was quite emphatic, was the fact that vocational education differs from many other educational institutions in the fact that their one purpose is to prevent the exclusion of young people, to take a booth through so-called personal guidance, to help those young people who have some difficulty in living in that situation to stay in teaching and in groups. Now that the Minister has raised the issue of the funding of this detective youth work and workshops — I think they share some of the same purpose — what does the Minister think of whether they should then assess the overall picture together, that there will be no duplication of work, that if one little thin network fails, then there will be another thin network to face up to these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u45	I promised Mr Gustafsson the last speech to this debate. Although I did notice that he was the first to speak here, but he could manage both, which is why I also give him the answer. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u46	Thank you, Speaker! Practice makes you a champion, let's say. — The core issue has now come to light, and that is first making mammoth savings, followed by a new structure of qualifications and new operating legislation after two years. This is where the government is doing the wrong thing in politics. This is a big jump to the unknown now. Example: It was said from Oulu that things were under control. In Pirkanmaa, I had to follow a situation in which a major educational institution is further reducing local education due to these savings. This reduction in local education is the most pressing issue. Up to 10 to 15 years ago, a vocational school student studied 30 to 35 hours effectively. Now it's been cut down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u47	And now the minister's in the toilet for four minutes, max.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u48	Mr President! Thank you for the debate, it is colorful, as it should be in the Chamber. These cuts, as has been said, are the responsibility of all the parliamentary parties. All parliamentary parties have been deciding on cuts in vocational education and training. There is, of course, more freedom from opposition to criticise these proposals, but I would like to remind you that, for example, during the last period of the structural policy programme, the Social Democrats, both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Education, as a party, announced at the beginning of this reign that these savings would be in the hands of the opposition if they were in the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u51	Thank you. — To the list of speakers. Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u52	Mr President! Yet again, Minister, to these important starting points. In your previous speech, you said that there was no significant reduction in the number of places to start. Well, that remains to be seen, but our concern about what happens at the starting points is perfectly justified and justified. Several experts have drawn attention to the fact that, of course, educational institutions are trying to keep up with the starting positions of young people. Common sense and responsibility say that this is the case. But then it happens that the volume of vocational adult education and training is being reduced and the starting places are being reduced. There is evidence and information about this. Well, that's not right, of course. I do not now have a background report from the Socialist Parliamentary Group on this matter, but I have a government proposal in my hand. At the end of the day, I will go over some of the statements made by the experts on this government proposal. First, these contributors considered the savings in vocational education and training to be considerable. Most of the opinions called for savings to be abandoned or, at least, phased out for more than one financial year. Most commentators considered that the reform of the operating legislation and the implementation of savings should be carried out at the same time. Well, of course this should be done. Secondly, the opinions raised concerns about the continuity and future of training provision in response to the skills needs of different sectors. It was feared that these cuts would make it more difficult to access the labour force, just as has already been mentioned here, and I am not so concerned about training in the metal sector, the problems are regional and local, and they can be dealt with, but we have a lot of smaller sectors of activity and occupations that could get into a difficult situation as a result of these savings. Then, several commentators were concerned about the impact of cuts on access to education, especially in sparsely populated areas, and the impact of savings on access to and quality of teaching and guidance. From the point of view of equality and equality, the impact assessment was considered to be incomplete in a few opinions. Well, in my reply, I raised this perhaps the most important challenge for vocational education and training. It has to do with the quality of teaching. We have many employers who rightly say and take a stand that graduates are not all quite qualified at the moment. Well, of course not everyone is. We know that a professional does not become a professional until he has three to five years of working life. But the fact is that this radical decrease in the number of close-to-contact and contact teaching in the last 10 years has led to the fact that most students in the profession work a working week of between 3.5 and 4 days. Let's say you study Friday at home, work. Well, what's that 16-year-old girl or boy doing at home Friday night? I'm going to ask you a question. I'm not going to answer it. I'm just asking. This is a serious question. And we in the Committee on Education are going to take this — by the name of the real purpose. The government will not get away with this issue easily, I can assure you of that as a long line of education and education policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u57	Värderade Talman! Mycket har gått snett i den ox reformen. Tidtabellen är för det första mycket ansträngd och saker och ting görs i fel ordning. Inbesparingarna träder i kraft 2017 och finansieringslagen och själva lagstiftningen som styr verksamheten och innehållet i undervisningen kommer först ettår senare. Det är mycket olyckligt och skapar oro och förvirring på fältet. Regeringen vägrar att ändra på tidtabellen så vi får tuvatyr Leva med den ox. Men det finns många obesvarade frågor som vi måste fundera på ordentligt i utskottet. Sådana frågor är, och som vi hörde rai redan: Hur trygga regional rättvisa, alla ungas rätt till utbildning också i Södra Finland och andra tillvaxtomåden? Hur ska vi kunna trygga utbildningsplatser för dem som löper risk att marginaliseras, och hur trygga till utbildning på svenska? Jag rycker att den språkliga consekensbedömning som har gjorts är bristfällig. Vi måste komma ihåg att de svenska enheterna alltid är mindre, ticker stora geografiska områden och är lite dyrare att förverkliga — alltså undervisningen är dyrare att förverkliga — så också på finlandssvenskt håll finns det en stor oro för den finlandsssssss svenska utbildningen. Studerandehälsovården, hur ska man trygga den i landskapsreformen så att också de som studerar inom yrkesutbildningen ska ha rautt till en god studerandehälsovård? Närundervisningen, hur ska vi kunna trygga att de elephant som inte har tidigare erlagd kunskap och erfarenhet och som kanske behöver den ärundervisningen
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u58	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson said in the debate that the exercise will make the champion, and I think that Minister Grahn-Laasonen is the master of non-answering questions. If the reason for these training cuts is that the structure of the previous government fell, why did you not tell us about your plans for the election? On the contrary, you made a direct promise not to cut out education and you repeated this promise after the elections. And then Mr Zyskowicz has the nerve to accuse the opposition of a political game in this Chamber. We have still not received an answer to the question of why these savings will be made before this reform comes into force, that is why this chosen sequence is like this. Mr President! We cannot afford to continue on the road to educational cuts in Finland. Oversized cuts in education, research and product development undermine the country’s growth prospects and long-term prospects for success. The consequences of these educational cuts will be evident for a long time. Moreover, cuts in vocational education and training threaten to make access to education more difficult and to increase the number of people who have dropped out even further. Surgery therefore threatens to exacerbate exclusion. According to the latest OECD comparative study on education, more than one-fifth of young Finnish men are without work and education and this number has increased considerably since 2005. These cuts will only accelerate this development. In addition, oversized cuts in education and student aid also send a signal to young people in this country. They are now being given the signal that the government does not appreciate education and is not prepared to invest in the well-being and adequate livelihood of young people. The cuts are also incompatible with the objectives of the Government's reform of vocational education and training. When I visited a vocational school in Joensuu, teachers stressed that the reduction of local education is reflected in a lower level of competence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u61	Mr President! When education is not appreciated, it is visible in everything. The education policy of the Sipilä Government has received such freezing and stunning assessments from almost all sectors of society that perhaps at this stage we could hope that it would draw conclusions from these assessments and from this criticism and begin to reverse these totally unreasonable cuts in education. It seems that there is now another violation of something whose value is not fully understood. The importance of vocational education and training for this country is incalculable. In these schools, those who grow up know the professionals who run this country. At the same time, these schools prevent the marginalisation of young people and help immigrant young people to integrate into Finland. These cuts of nearly 200 million are particularly excessive because there has already been too much cutbacks in vocational education and training in the past. The number of local education has been reduced and the network has been reduced. This is a matter in which no party in this Chamber is innocent. Mr President! We were previously assured here that these institutions and municipalities know how these massive cuts will be carried out. I can assure you, they don't know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u66	Mr President! Mr Kari created such a dramatic and horrifying picture of the proposal before us that it forces us to ask how it is possible that during the last parliamentary term the Greens were in the government's hands to adopt the Government's decision on the implementation of the structural policy programme, which included a corresponding saving.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u67	Mr President! The savings planned for next year in vocational education and training are absurd, especially when they are made before restructuring. The order is therefore wrong, and the Minister here has not been able to give any reasonable explanation as to why this is the case, even though he has been asked several times. When all other savings in education are realised, the long-term consequences for society as a whole will be negative. According to experts, there is a risk that the loss of skills will weaken our competitiveness and educational inequality will increase and further deepen the division of society. For the first time in 100 years, our level of education is going down. All experts both at home and internationally consider these cuts to be highly questionable for Finland’s future. Mr President! The Minister has told us here that the savings in vocational education and training are being prepared in good cooperation with the educational institutions and that the work is under control, so to speak. I regularly meet teachers from two vocational schools, and they tell me something else. In the educational institutions, consideration is given to reducing the number of lessons, increasing the degree of independent study, and what subjects students could study with each other without a teacher. The quality of education is being reduced and the number of lessons reduced. I myself have been in vocational education and training as a teacher in my day, and I can tell you that the profession will not be learned through online courses, distance learning or teamwork with fellow students, and now the teachers are thinking that these things will be more and more next year. Furthermore, teaching cannot be completely transferred to workplaces because there is no capacity for teaching — and workplaces learn only one way of working, and school teachers learn to think widely and see different ways of working in different ways. Mr President! I am particularly concerned about the weakening of the funding for the adult knowledge programme. We have about 100 000 young adults between the ages of 21 and 29 without an initial vocational qualification, and everyone in this Chamber will understand that without vocational training it is almost impossible to find employment. The so-called NAO programme, which started last season, has produced very good results, and now the government has decided to reduce funding for this training. I find it difficult to understand how the government can excite public investment in the NAO programme when it actually cuts more than EUR 12 million out of it. According to the Ministry's press release, 10 million more will be added to the programme, although in fact the government only reduced the savings target by EUR 10 million and is certainly not increasing funding for this very successful programme. Mr President! The savings, despite the Minister's assurances, can also lead to fewer student seats. Schools are increasingly competing for the best students, and there is a risk that young people, especially those in need of much support, will increasingly be excluded from education. I therefore doubt the implementation of the training month in the future. I hope I am completely wrong, but this concern has been told to me by the teachers working in the schools, I have not invented it myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u68	Mr President! I brought the whole arsenal, and I thought I'd take a little longer to make a speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u71	Mr President! It is clear that the demand for savings is tough, that there is really nothing to be done about it, and in that respect the question is: how do we start to implement this saving? I see that it has been an excellent decision to give the organisers the opportunity to decide for themselves how this savings will be made. For we organisers have quite different situations in different regions, and there may also be different situations in student toxins. It is clear that this may not be quite a bump in the face, but it has been admitted honestly here, too, with regard to the social impact of this government proposal. And there are also the risk issues raised here, as Mr Nylander has pointed out here, that this may also have an impact on accessibility. It is stated here that this is the case, and I am sure that the committee will have to assess how this will be seen. Furthermore, it is also quite honest to say that the implementation of savings should also lead to an adjustment of operations by reducing staff costs. It is, of course, a question of what kind of staff this applies to. We hope and want, of course, that it would not apply to the teaching staff, because the teaching staff is the most important staff from the perspective of our students' everyday school life. We also have educational institutions where decisions have recently been made that cuts have been made to that teaching but not to administration or development. That this is, of course, a place for the educational institutions to consider how these adjustments will then be made. There have also been answers from the educational institutions in this survey that there is also the possibility of saving on the real estate side, that there will be 20 million potential savings, and it will also be possible to see, when investments are made, that there can be no need to do all the investment that has been thought about. There are also opportunities in the operating models, and digitalisation also brings its own opportunities. Perhaps the main objective here should be to ensure that, with minimal damage, this savings can be carried forward. It's not easy. It is also not so easy for us decision-makers to be here to defend the government's proposal, but then it is up to us decision-makers to seek out the ways in which it can be done in the smartest way. We are also on the way, as is raised in this government proposal, to two paragraphs of our reforms, which will then come within a year, and there will be financial and organisational reforms, and they have already become quite a lot of information for the public. Here, Mr Eloranta raised this changing working life, where our professional claims may become obsolete even during one night, and we do not know exactly what kind of world our young people will be facing when they are working. In that respect, the government has started to recognise that we also need to make our qualifications more extensive. In that way, if we have 351 qualifications today, we will have 165 degrees in the future, and our young people will then have considerably more extensive skills to take on the challenges of working life. In addition, if you look at thinking patterns, you start not only with qualifications, but you start with qualifications, you can also build a path of lifelong learning from there to the young to the adult. Furthermore, Mr Gustafsson pointed out that there should be no dead ends, so there should be an extension path anywhere. Indeed, the Minister pointed out that even until the doctoral examination, this must be guaranteed in the future. There must be no deadlock for our young people at any level of learning. In addition, we have many young people who learn by doing, and in that respect we are about to learn: as far as apprenticeship training is concerned, we hope that as many as possible will be able to get into apprenticeships, but we will also have a model of apprenticeships. In fact, the most important change in attitude and attitude is that we leave the student and above all talk about the effects on the student and the effects on the student. In that respect, we should listen to student feedback in the future and also to the way in which it is done: whether we are investing in employment, or whether this is the case when we come to the path of unemployment. In other words, students are equally at the centre here when we are doing this difficult implementation of the Savings Act. It became clear here that those lessons are important and it cannot be that there are three days of school attendance if you are in a normal form of local education. In that respect, we should not think that this should be the case, that there should be further reductions in the hours at which we are already at a very low level. I have heard these same stories from teachers that it may even be that even today that number of hours is in there for twenty hours — it is for a young person who starts very little. In other words, I think that these difficult things have been brought here honestly in relation to this government proposal, and of course it is up to the Committee on Education to carry out its own evaluation and listen carefully to our experts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u72	Mr President! However, I thought it was wonderful that the representative should: Lauslahti spoke with reason about this reform, even though you represent the government party — that you described this situation by saying that we are now trying to do this reform with the least possible damage. I still ask the Minister, while he is here in the Chamber, whether you, the Minister, have any information on the number of starting places, offices, teaching lessons and teachers of this government proposal which you have presented to Parliament today? This information would be essential for Parliament, and when there are 170 of these organisers in Finland, I did not start calling them all myself. At least this information has not been sent to the Civilization Division. We have tried to get it from the Ministry, but I do not know whether the Minister will then have this information because you referred to the effects of this proposal, and indeed of these effects it is said that this calculated savings of 18,000,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u73	And now we have a response from Mr Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u74	Mr President! This debate on what is being abandoned, on what type of staff is really challenging, and I agree with Mrs Lauslahti that the teaching staff should be given up as a last resort. But we have seen, for example, in universities where administrative staff have been abandoned, that it has also led to teaching staff — professors, lecturers — having to carry out these very basic bureaucratic administrative tasks, which is then absent from the students. That this is in no way an unambiguous matter and there is no guarantee that if the administrative staff or other staff were to be abandoned there would be no impact on the teaching staff. It's not that simple.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u75	And Mr Tolppanen and then Mr Lauslahti and then on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u76	Mr President! Also, a group of staff such as health care in the student world is what you cannot give up, not at all, because we have so many exhausted, so many depressed students and so many studies are left unfinished because the students simply can't do it. This country is so hard at the moment for students — from there they are reduced from all sides, including housing allowances, to other social subsidies — that they simply do not have a chance. In addition, we would really like to know what these real figures are. Just as Mr Kiuru has just asked, could the Minister give us those figures now? Or what is the point when we get the proper background?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u77	Mr President! Representative Tolppanen raised an important issue, our student care, and can say that student care is an extremely important part of our schools and student care must be close to the schools. This is also linked to the regional reform that, in so far as student care is the place of the organiser of education, there will be talk of curators, psychologists who will also work closely with student counsellors and who will play an increasingly important role in the future. That it is good that this is also on the table. Congressman Nylander, I agree with you. One can say that such summary deductions that are taken away from something without there being a re-examination of the tasks or of any activity process, are fatally bad ways to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u79	Mr President! True Finns congratulate Nobel Economic Winner Bengt Holmström: a great performance! More than 190 million are also cut from vocational education and training, which is a tough cut. However, the background lies in a broader Government approach to the reform of initial vocational education and training. Of course, when we talk about savings, it is really important that we start making them, for example, for real estate maintenance costs, maintenance costs, digitality. A reduction in staff is a difficult issue and should be avoided as far as possible. Only 3% of the funding for initial vocational education is based on the employment and further training of graduates, the remaining 97% is determined by the mere desire of students to study the field. This phenomenon was already worrying at the beginning of the 21st century. It is precisely this imbalance between training places and jobs that the government's policy of vocational training is based on. The aim is to better target training to the needs of the labour market. This will give young people graduates a job corresponding to their education or continue to work at a university of applied sciences. The proposal does not affect the youth guarantee, even if all providers of initial vocational education and training make savings solely by reducing the number of students. Youth leaving comprehensive school will continue to be guaranteed a place of education. The government is investing in basic education for young adults, and that is important. It is great that this debate has, as a general rule, been very constructive — at least so far. I myself would like to highlight one important aspect of vocational training, namely apprenticeships. Switzerland, Austria, Germany, where apprenticeship training has been very successful. In these countries, further training has also been made very smooth. The motivation of the students is very high there, and I understand that student care also plays well. Companies are strongly involved in apprenticeship training in these countries, and it is also hoped that they will join in apprenticeship training under better conditions in Finland. In Switzerland and Austria, three years are studied in apprenticeship training. Four days are working in the company and one day is the theory of the first year to the last. Every month there will be an important discussion between the student and the teacher, how things have gone, what can be fixed, how the student himself has thought about how he has succeeded so far. He's being followed very actively so he can graduate in three years' time. It is indeed noteworthy that there the students are highly motivated and the profession in which they graduate is whatever profession it is, it is valuable and important, and it would be very important to have that culture in Finland as well. What is required of students there is that they should also apply for this apprenticeship in companies themselves. Youth unemployment is around 3% to 3.5%, i.e. it is not high and the number of people excluded is relatively low. In other words, it would also be good to have good practices here in Finland in apprenticeship training. These are something that the government is weighing on and the opposition is probably getting very good and important guidance for this debate as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u80	Mr President! In the final part of his speech, Congressman Elomaa made good mention of apprenticeship training. You used the examples in Switzerland, Austria, Germany. I would remind you, however, that there is a tradition of decades, even a century, of this type of apprenticeship, and that is something employers have committed to in a different way than in Finland. But I asked for the floor because, in fact, your speech showed where the opposition is right. They will now be cut by nearly EUR 200 million, and this operating legislation itself and the reform of qualifications will come in a year or two. In fact, we would have liked to strengthen this apprenticeship already in this context, but I do not think that we are naturally linked to this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u81	Mr President! I think this is where the representative very well referred earlier to the fact that there is a reform of 190 million. What scares me very much is why it is thought in Parliament that the government will save 190 million on vocational education and training. That is a lot of it, as the opposition says. But once again it was proved that only 190 million people would be cut off from vocational education — that is not at all true. It is now important, Minister, that you tell us here how much vocational training will be cut off during this term of government. That would be fair to the representatives, because there is confusion about this. Firstly, this cost-level amendment which will be presented next year: why was it not included in this 190 million saving? In addition to saving 190 million, a cost-level check is still being saved, which is largely close to 20 million. I mean, I think this is pretty inconceivable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u82	I'm asking you to at least try to stay in that minute. — Let us move on to the list of speakers, Mr Tolppanen. After a few speeches, the Minister could comment again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u83	Mr President! There has also been talk in this Chamber today of youth work and detective youth work. It is worth the effort now, Minister, and very much so, and to train them, because these detectives will be needed quite a bit after these cuts. There will be so many people and fallers there will be needing field personnel. Indeed, from 2017 onwards, expenditure savings under the Government Programme will come into force with a reduction of EUR 190 million in vocational education and training, a reduction of EUR 30 million in university pharmacy fees and a reduction of EUR 47 million in expenditure resulting from the reform of student aid. In addition, the freezing of the index increase based on a change in cost level will continue in accordance with the Government Programme for the imputed financial system and central government shares and higher education institutions until 2019 and for study aid on a permanent basis. I ask, Minister, is that right? If all these things are true, then this will mean that in this reign a total of 3 billion will be cut from education, 3 billion, and that will be a huge amount. That's so much that I can't even imagine how many hundred bucks this corridor is worth to raise 3 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u88	Mr President! The OECD's recent country comparison for Finland is hard to read. According to it, the exclusion of young people from work and education is on the rise in Finland. More than one-fifth of men between the ages of 20 and 24 are unemployed or not in education. In this situation, however, the government's leading project in vocational education and training will be cut by 190 million, and even by the fact that the providers of education will be forced to reduce teachers, the already limited hours of local education or the number of students. For example, for a metal man, as has been said here today, it is quite difficult to study at a distance. It would have been a better way to look at the organiser's network at the whole second level, such as upper secondary schools and vocational schools, in the form of joint premises and the use of joint teachers, as is now the case in the higher education sector. Such a high level of savings in vocational education and training is extremely regrettable, since at least secondary education is the best guarantee of access to employment. The career of young adults who rely on comprehensive school alone will be extended by more than 6 years when they receive education. In addition to this, a knowledge programme for young adults is gradually being pushed down, even though it has produced real success stories about how young people who have been left behind have recaptured education and employment and life. Just as these networks have now been built over a few years, young people have found this programme and it works, it is now being driven down by a 33% reduction in its funding of EUR 12 million. In my opinion, this is a waste of human resources. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u89	Mr President! Mr Eloranta is quite right to say that, as Bengt Holmström has said, there is a future, and in that respect we have a government preparing a reform in which we come to the professional side with extensive qualifications. One can say that the government has taken such a very forward-looking role in that regard. Similarly, the attention of our young people is that we are not just talking about qualifications or organisations, but also about taking that student and youth-centred position in this whole educational system of ours, is one way in which we prevent it from being excluded from society. We also take more learning in the workplace there, and then there may also be a way to find that career, and the path to find its own livelihood, and that way you can then create your own family in the future and,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u90	Mr. Speaker! It is true that next year vocational education and training is going to be at the pain limit. There are pain spots which the government is now trying to resolve, and hopefully also the opposition. There have been long-standing pain spots when cuts have been made by different governments: regional accessibility, the situation in high-cost education sectors and the ability to provide local education. However, when reference is made to the education promise and the question of whether it has been broken or not, it must be borne in mind that this part of the education promise was already broken by the Social Democrats in their electoral programme, saying that EUR 260 million should be cut from vocational education, that is, more than the government is now cutting off. We ended up humanizing that cut because it was huge — that is, the sum of the previous parliamentary term, the amount of the electoral programme and then the amount that was shown here in the shadow budgets. So I guess that's where we're in the same boat, and I don't think blame is going to take anyone forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u91	Mr President! It is pointless for the government parties now to distort this Socialist proposal. We have said on many occasions that we would have gone ahead with structural reforms and this head, Mr Puumala and Mr Puumala. And how can it be that, here, when Mr Puumala did not appear in the Chamber just now, it was recalled that during the last period these structural reforms fell just as Mr Puumala and the then opposition were absent from the committee, prevented the coming of structural reforms in this way. And I agree with the wish expressed earlier in the debate that this is the way in which this is done, that is to say to rob the money out of education and leave it to my own hands, and I am in favour of a representative who: This time again, pumala would organise the fact that the committee would not have the power to take any of these crazy decisions forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u92	Let us take the answers, Mr Puumala and Mr Lauslahti, and then we shall move on to the list. — Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u93	Mr President! I'm not sure we're going through that. We can do that too, but it may not move this debate forward. Quite accurately, however, it is always the case that the government either passes or does not pass its own proposals. If the opposition knocks them down, then it's probably just going to melt the opposition in the hat. But here's the thing. It would be good now to have a great version of this: how would your proposal, cut by 260 million, that is, 70 million more than this government cuts, have left regional accessibility alone, how would it have left this field of education alone? Because now you have invented a perpetual motion and now it must be patented as quickly as possible in this debate. You have invented a moss to cut 260 million, that is, more than the government, and it is taken from some virtual structure, from some air, or from where it is taken. When we get this patented on paper, it'll be good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u94	Mr President! Here it has just been stated that those secondary schools are really not virtual, yes, there is an emergency now in hand
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u97	Mr President! The way the SDP works was quite interesting. The SDP acts as a traditional cartridge, commands the field to do something and turns on the restructuring,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u100	Mr President! It's starting to get pretty low on the level of conversation. Here we are discussing the fact that the government is now taking these decisions in the wrong order, that you first take the money and then change the structures. But when reference is made here to the election programme of the SDP, it must have been clear that these structural reforms will be carried out first and then we will see what the pressure is on the cost side as well. After all, the government is doing the wrong thing, and here you are being criticised, and here you are being asked why you are doing this this way, even though everyone is saying that this is a leap into the unknown. This could now be answered by the government parties: why on earth has this been chosen to go this way, since it is already a fairly difficult exercise to take away so much money from vocational training?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u101	Mr President! Here's what I'm gonna do. Lauslahti stated that it would be possible for educational institutions to decide for themselves how they would implement these reforms and savings, and you would not really give them such a chance. Now schools really have to make savings decisions without knowing what is coming — a new financing law, a new operating law that regulates this activity and content. That's not true all the time. If that were the case, then we should put the whole reform on the table and say that we are going to go together to build, and not this way, that the money and then in the dark are trying to find those ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u102	Mr Laukkanen and then Mr Lauslahti, the replies, and then we will move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u103	Mr President! I would like to reiterate that why this order now goes as it does: because this budget book shows that a new type of financing arrangement will be introduced in 2018 and that means that the government will continue to cut out of education. Now we are going to cut this much, then we are going to reform the system of contributions, and we are going to cut more. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u104	Then there is the reply, Mr Lauslahti, and then we move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u105	Honored Speaker! For Mr Nylander: as the Minister has already said here, reform has not been prepared from the ivory tower ministry, but the field has been involved in creating the notes,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u108	And now to the list, to the list of speakers. — Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u109	Mr President! Minister and Members of Parliament! In my opinion, the Minister of Education presented with worrying carelessness these huge cuts in vocational education and training already decided by the government — we are talking about savings of EUR 190 million from the beginning of next year. But I wonder why this huge operation does not seem to bother the Minister for Education at all. In practice, therefore, it has been calculated that this amount would mean, for example, a reduction of 18,000 vocational education and training places compared to the current situation, which is indeed a third of the starting places for the youth age group. This would also mean a huge cut in adult vocational education and training, but I do not think that the Minister referred to this in his speech as anything I wondered. In any case, the cuts in vocational education and training mean that teaching groups are being raised, local education is being abandoned, and those students who need support to succeed in their studies are the most affected by the deterioration in the quality of education. And this is indeed at the same time as one in five Finnish young men under the age of 26 are already without a secondary degree. In other words, in practice, the division of society deepens. I was very surprised that the Minister denied that these mammoth cuts would have any detrimental effect on the quality of teaching, since savings can be sought using many routes. What these routes are, then, was unclear. The Minister did say that we can save from the walls — as if we did not understand what this saving from the walls means. This means that, in practice, secondary schools are closed down, and this particularly affects areas outside large cities and means that there may be no place for secondary education in the locality. Inequality is increasing and regional equality is deteriorating. In practice, a large proportion of young people are excluded from education, working life and society. And it is a good thing that we invest in workshops and detective youth work in this situation. In fact, it is necessary at all times because some young people always fall from education for one reason or another. But these cuts will not be thwarted by workshops and detective youth work. That is an unfortunate fact. It is also the case that the fall in professional skills and the conscious reduction of skilled labour also undermine employment and our ability to dive out of the economic downturn. But, as has been said in this debate, the most absurd thing is that the government will go ahead and reform only after that, and the Minister of Education has not been able to answer the House why the government is acting so absurdly, even though many of the speeches here have prompted an answer to this wrong march order. Professor Bengt Holmström, a Finnish economist who was awarded yesterday, has found that the enormous cuts made by the sitting government are particularly eating up the prerequisites for the future of young people. This is what they do, and the rhetoric of the Minister of Education does not change this fact. The saddest thing to me is that we now have a government in Finland whose conscious aim seems to be to reduce the level and quality of education. This does not promise good for us as a nation, nor does it create the light that young people need, even they need, in order to survive this difficult time of recession. Finland has long been regarded as a model country for educational equality, but the government is now destroying this consciously — it seems. Investing in education and knowledge would yield many times as much back, while the cost of exclusion would entail extra costs of millions of euros for society. Mr President! Last week we held a debate in Parliament on the interference in racism and extremism. And it was a colorful debate, but I think that the members of the government also gave good, constructive speeches, such as those from all the groups. I personally think that Parliament should also have a topical debate on equality in education: why is it meaningful to stick to it at all times, and how is it best to achieve it? Perhaps we could all learn something from this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u110	Mr President! I would also like to point out that the marching order is now wrong. It would therefore be very reasonable to say that when such a hard hand is cut, how it should be done justly. For example, in Pirkanmaa, I did some research on the ideas there: If this operation were to be carried out entirely by reducing the starting points, it would mean a reduction of about 800 starting points. But since the province is growing and there is a need for places to start and, in this situation, it would be irresponsible to exclude young people from education, it has not been left to cut off the starting places, but the providers of education are forced to cut off the quality of education, local education and teaching staff, because these savings decisions are so important. Instead of these millions, the matter should be considered from the point of view of the young, these students. In practice, this surgery means that the basic skills of mathematics and English, for example, should be learned in just a few ten hours. In my opinion, this clearly means that the postgraduate qualifications of these students will be jeopardised. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you ensure that these students have equal access to further studies? On the other hand, I think that we should also look specifically at skills and employment in view of these changes in working life at the moment: how do you ensure that the level of competence and further learning are not jeopardised by these major cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u111	Mr President! I think it is clear that structural reforms are also needed when we talk about education. This applies to the whole of the second stage, and it also applies to the higher level, and it would be possible for these reforms to achieve cost savings as well as, above all, to reduce the pressure on the rise in costs. The key question is how to proceed with these reforms. A great deal has already been said about what has been done on this issue during the last term of government, and that is when this second-degree structural reform really concerned the whole second stage: not only the professional side, but also the general side. And you can actually say that it is the fault of all the parties that this matter is now before us in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u116	Mr President! What we are dealing with here is pure surgery. It is a savings decision: EUR 190 million for vocational training. And that is not all, because of the kiky agreement, the additional cuts in the whole field of education, not only in the field of education, but also in theatres, orchestras and museums. Indeed, what we are criticising here, Minister, is that this is a wrong head. We should now draw up a law that would guide these savings and not go through this wild westing which, at its worst, leaves behind young people who fall without a place of education, areas where young people do not have the opportunity to build their own lives. The law first and, if necessary, the necessary savings. But, President, I am surprised at the government's résumé on education. All levels are now cut: early childhood education, universities, universities of applied sciences, vocational education. We have rightly appealed to Bengt Holmström, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, who has stated that these austerity decisions constitute an intellectual insult to the entire scientific community. This small country can't do anything other than know-how and high knowledge and well-targeted know-how. It is an important message which now seemed to be a unanimous message from the entire scientific community to the government of our country. President! I am also concerned that vocational adult education is being driven down. Right now, when we are calling for flexibility in the labour market, risk-taking capacity and courage for people, was the right time to drive down professional adult education when people should have both the opportunity and the courage to take up a new job, train themselves in a new sector, go to a new place after a new job? Now, President-in-Office, it is precisely vocational adult education and training that is needed and in general investment in education, skills and education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u117	Mr President! Mr Grahn-Laasonen, I have tried very carefully and rigorously to answer this one question which has come almost every time: why do you save EUR 190 million first on secondary vocational training and then go on to build reform and a new financial system? What is this logic for this approach, what are you now implementing in the government? In practice, this means that in South Karelia as well as elsewhere in Finland, there is a reduction in pupils' contact teaching hours, negotiations are being held, staff are being laid off, support services for students are being reduced, the quality of education for pupils and young people is being weakened, and in practice this will mean that the young people who need to be able to learn need support will be less able to learn, and thus inequalities in this teaching and learning will also increase, and that in working life, too, all young people will not be employed in the same way as they are expected through this vocational training. There is one group, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, who has not been able to discuss it here but which I am concerned about, and during that time, Mr Kiuru and Mr Gustafsson, I talked to them a great deal about this during the last period when reform was being prepared and there was a great deal of interference. These are young people who need special support. We currently have about 22,000 young people in need of special support, some 4,000 of whom study in special schools. Of these 22,000, these 18,000 young people need special support for their own learning and receive it in other educational institutions alongside other students. The risk now is that when you cut this EUR 190 million, it will be precisely these young people who need more support. At the moment, we already have clear areas where education for these young people is not provided. For these young people who need special support, there is a risk — or quite a practice — not a risk, but even today it is a practice for which a solution was sought during the last period — that they may need to travel hundreds of kilometres to obtain a vocational qualification. For this reason, one idea of this reform last season was to develop and enable every young person, if he is qualified, to be guaranteed access to a vocational qualification. How do you now, under this austerity pressure, in this kind of reform, ensure that these young people receive a vocational qualification from home and do not have to travel? South Karelia, for example, travels 200 kilometres to Liperi, Jyväskylä or Espoo, and now they want to support this and make their own solutions. You've also been talking about workshops. It is quite true that the workshops will be funded in such a way that they remain at this year's level. That is a great thing, but the big problem now is that there will be no young people in the workshops, and the reason for this is that the government will cut the pay subsidy and build legislation that will no longer, for example, be able to employ young people in municipal workshops. Sixty per cent of all workshops are municipal workshops, and now this legislation of the Ministry of Employment and Employment will mean that if, for example, there are negotiations in the municipality with even one person, there are layoffs or dismissals, this municipality will not be allowed to employ young people in its own workshop. This has led to the risk that local workshops in different parts of Finland will not receive pay support for this employment. In this way, despite the goodwill you have had in the Ministry to secure basic funding for workshops, there is no pay subsidy and there are no young people who could go there. At the same time, you cut the wage subsidy for organisations by half, which in practice also means that there will be no young people in these workshops. That is why I would like you to have a debate with Minister Lindström on the fact that these legislations would support your idea that workshops could genuinely create jobs for young people and that organisations could also support the employment of these young people by means of pay subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u118	Mr President! These few thoughts would probably have had time to speak in that place, but I am talking about this just in case. We've been talking about these surgeries here, and I don't think anyone likes them. They are quite large — as has been said to those who make statements here that no one likes them. But then the commentators have also considered it justified that the organisers of education and training themselves should be able to target these adjustment measures by their own decision. I don't think they're really easy either. And then a number of contributors are also concerned about the impact of cuts on access to education, and it is always very difficult for those living in those remote villages. Just a few thoughts about following the lives of my grandchildren when they were 15 to 16 years old and left for education. Firstly, it has become clear that the duplication of training needs to be eliminated. It happens. Now my loved one went to study, and then she went to another school, and the same things were said there, so that the students became frustrated. That when this reform is made, we also need to address the fact that there is overlap. Well, then it has also been said here that there will be more learning in the workplace, so-called apprenticeships, but I have also followed that in my own company that it is not easy either to have an employer involved in it at all times. It is neither economically nor otherwise, administratively, in any way easy. And also what the savings will be made when these measures are made: the administration should be reduced, bureaucracy reduced, and, of course, these unnecessary walls will not be needed, except enough. But we also know that the world and we, too, the small Finland, must invest in this technological development, robotization, artificial intelligence and all. We have to be agile and no one knows what our Finland and our school environment will be like in 10 to 20 years' time. And knowledge, as well as work, often ages rapidly in many tasks. In other words, we students and teachers and the school world must constantly reform and reform in order to keep up with this development. And, as was said last season, this study should aim precisely, as we call it, for the needs of the labour and business world. And when we talk about these young people in remote areas, I remember last season that I too hoped that these, who then go to second grade, would get into contact education. Well, none of us can get within 10 to 20 km, but they are about 100 km away. And if I speak with the children's mouth, it is quite automatic for them that they are in a larger city, they have that circle of friends there and have that community after school. That I was thinking how they got along, but my parents' thoughts were useless. They really want to be in big places like this, where there are more study paths, and when I think about this upcoming reform, no matter how it happens now, it would be important that these study paths could change very quickly for just working life tasks. And then it has also been discussed that, for example, vocational schools today are three years old. I must say that there is often idleness there, so that, for example, two years of intensive study, as has been said here. And I also agree with those representatives that it should be that close-up education, should be for those students whose studies are not so streamlined, those sponsors, curators and psychologists, so that this schooling is good. So we could talk about this length. All in all, I think that this world of education will change here after years and decades. These were such own ideas that these savings are terrible, but then we will see what the coming years will bring and what the new governments will also do in the context of education, when we know that Finland is in debt and every place should be pinched, which the administrative sector should pinch. Of course, this education is important for us to be a civilised state here in Finland. If all the money is put away, there is no chance, but I believe that, in good cooperation with education providers and students and others, our students will then become even wiser around the world, just as this Nobel Prize winner has been acclaimed here at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u119	Mr President! I have been in this Chamber all this time, and Mr Grahn-Laasonen, for example, has been here. This debate, which has now taken place, has drawn close to this vocational training from different perspectives. Of course, the main issue now has been this huge savings which are being made from vocational education and training, and the debate that has taken place has also shown why this policy is wrong, that money is being taken away first and then other legislation and a new reform of qualifications comes. If I think that a person reads all these speeches used, then from this point of view I thought to make a few marginal notes, mainly on this sort of social democratic framework regarding vocational education. I would like to say that our system of qualifications and education programmes have fallen behind, and that is why this reform and reform of vocational education and training have been taking place for many years. Today, a young person seeking vocational education and training, i.e. a young person who completes comprehensive school, will have to choose his/her profession from over 100 options without having a day’s work experience in the field. This complexity of the system then leads to a very impossible choice for many, when the professions are also firmly built. In my opinion — and I dare to say this in the opinion of the Social Democrats too — this vocational training should and should be reformed so that the student can apply to larger sectoral entities and, as the training progresses, then the student can choose which profession and what kind of tasks he or she would like to specialise in within the field. This would make it much easier to apply for vocational education and training and also to provide guidance for learning. Then, for the third time in this debate, I would like to emphasise and reiterate the importance of adequate contact teaching. Learning and communityism in this group also play an important role. If a young 16-year-old really studies that Friday day or more at home, it can be genuinely asked how many of its time is spent studying and benefiting. That is why the number of contact education, the wide-ranging competence of students and the ability to continue learning must now be safeguarded in the future, as this vocational training is being reformed. And in connection with this contact education, I am concerned that the reform and development take place in quality above, skills, skills above. Working learning is an important issue, an important part of vocational education and training, but I would point out that this kind of labour-intensiveness does not meet all the skills needs of future working life. That is why the criteria for a qualification must be sufficiently wide-ranging to give, I am happy to use the term 'good professional education', and it also includes the fact that it provides a permit for lifelong learning. Perhaps this is what I wanted to say in summary when we cannot now deal with the reform as a whole, but with a plate at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u120	Mr President! Yes, this government is taking Finland in a completely wrong direction. These cuts in education and research are, in fact, breaking the foundation of the entire Finnish welfare society. I understand that the Minister's burden at the moment is heavy, namely now that the government is proposing a number of cuts in its public finances plan for the various administrative sectors, but most of them are reflected in the administrative sector of the future OKM for some strange reason. Cumulatively, education and research will now be cut by nearly EUR 3 billion. And at the same time, OK, the key projects will be financed by EUR 300 million, but the government seems to be taking ten times more than giving money to the top projects, that is, all in this spending limits period. And then I'm so surprised that there's talk of reform here. What kind of reform? Has something gone wrong in Finnish now that it feels like reform means surgery? I'm sure I've misunderstood that word of reform some time before. Furthermore, when we talk about this adult education, at the moment when there are nearly half a million unemployed people in the country, 340 000 are unemployed job seekers, and such 130,000 are in labour policy measures, it means that they are unemployed, and even though they are in labour policy measures, they are not in employment and are not paid, this must be remembered. Nevertheless, the government wants to reduce subsidies from 19 months to 15 months. The basic element of the aid will be reduced by 15 %, i.e. now EUR 32.68 in 2016, and will be reduced to EUR 27.78. The financing base for adult education changes in such a way that the State would no longer fund the adult education allowance for the wage and salary earners, but that the grant would be financed entirely by the Unemployment Insurance Fund. So this is what's gonna happen? Is this the way it is that when people are out of work... [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : I would ask the speaker to continue on the podium. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u123	Mr President! In fact, on this very subject, which Mr Tolppanen has just described with regard to this adult education, I would like to ask myself: When we know that we currently have about 110,000 young adults under the age of 30 who lack this vocational qualification, and their situation will become even more difficult because of these savings when educational institutions make these savings, and now we have a problem with the fact that it is natural and human for these institutions to target these starting places primarily to young people who have completed primary school education, and as a result these cuts will be directed at these young people or adults without a vocational qualification, and now their situation will become difficult, how have you intervened or have you taken any account of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u124	Mr President! Bengt Holmström has stated that Finland has not understood how bad the economy is. This debate confirms that. There is no reason to save anything other than that Finland is living over the money. These savings and cuts in vocational education and training are painful, and, as I have said, the challenge is this schedule, i.e. that the actual reform will only enter into force in 2018. But that is precisely why we have had a broad dialogue with the field of vocational education and training. According to my estimate today, 1200 people have been involved in the preparation of this reform of vocational education and training, and there is already a great deal of information in the field about where we are going. It is precisely the content of this reform that has broad support for the field of vocational education and training, despite the difficult economic situation. I would like to talk more about this content with you — in this debate, the focus has been less on it. I also find it unpleasant and repulsive that pictures are painted here about how this is destroying Finnish society or that there is no hope after these cuts. I don't believe in it. I see that we have a great deal of opportunity to work with the content of this reform of vocational education and training so that vocational education and training will continue to be attractive and will be better able to meet the skills requirements of the future. However, what needs to be taken care of is the key elements that will ensure that young people are given opportunities and that no one is left alone, and that this is precisely the month of education, that is, that everyone who has completed their primary school will continue to receive a secondary education place. It is necessary to develop the Youth Guarantee from the last period in the direction that more and more things are being done, the various authorities working together to catch a young person, to face each individual and to identify the problems, and also to help those young people who need, for example, the help of social welfare and health services, for example, to deal with substance abuse problems or mental health problems or the many problems of life management that unfortunately occur. As stated in this proposal, further efforts have been made in the training of immigrants, i.e. we have responded to this situation, we have many asylum seekers coming to Finland last year, and immigrants need training in order to be employed in Finnish society, to become part of our society, to be integrated here. There will be a special effort to do so, and we will soon be able to discuss it a little further. I would also like to point out that there is no misconception about this debate, when there is concern about this knowledge programme for young adults, that the government has specifically increased its funding in the budget debate by EUR 10 million, which means that we will continue to have a programme of skills for young adults to provide training for the difficult target group, young people in their 20s who have not completed or have not completed their education. Among other things, the financial solution to the reform of vocational education and training aims to ensure that the drop-out of education is reduced, because it is a genuine problem and that young people who are deprived of it are very weak in the labour market of the future and have poor forecasts for them. The aim is to prevent this exclusion by, among other things, paying particular attention to this suspension. And yes, the government will also have entities in the preparation process that specifically emphasize this early intervention. In other words, we need to turn that look even more into the early years, strengthen the participation rate of early childhood education, and we need to work to ensure that families with children achieve the services in good time, because many of the problems that lead to exclusion start in that early childhood.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u125	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u126	Mr President! I have talked a lot about the need for structural reforms and reforms that will lead our education system into the future, strengthen its ability to respond to changes in Finnish society and respond to phenomena such as its kind, such as the fact that we have more immigrants coming from vulnerable conditions. Finland begins to provide new basic education for adults. The situation of asylum seekers has led us to have a new need for basic education specifically for the adult target group. In the past, those who needed this basic adult education had completed a mere primary school, who wanted to complete their skills to match the comprehensive school, as well as those who left the comprehensive school, which, fortunately in Finland, are very few in international comparisons. A model based on personal competence needs is created for basic adult education, in which each student is given a personal study plan. The plan takes into account the skills acquired in the past, which must be identified and recognised in such a way as to teach everyone exactly the knowledge and skills he lacks. This also depends on the duration of basic adult education. It is a maximum of 5 years or 100 courses, or 130 courses for those who lack literacy skills. If necessary, the initial phase of basic education will be combined with the teaching of literacy for those who need it. The personal curriculum can also include studies in other educational institutions, such as vocational studies, and working life. This is important. In the early stages, you will learn Finnish or Swedish in particular, everyday skills in Finnish society, social information, environmental and natural information and health information. The funding of basic adult education is linked to the number of courses completed. According to one calculation date, the financial allocation ceases, and from a financial point of view, it is possible to start training all year round. At the beginning of the year, the Ministry of Education and Culture carried out a study on the level of competence of asylum seekers. Our estimate is that the number of students taking part in basic education will increase significantly. Some 2,600 people who have received asylum, who have exceeded their compulsory education age, would be enrolled in basic education already this year. In the future, it would be estimated that the number of student seats due to asylum seekers would be 725 per year in addition to the need for a place for other basic adult education. A major flaw in the current education system is that we do not have a uniform way of building a path for immigrant students. Immigrants' routes to education and working life are long, include idle visits, overlaps and sometimes even inappropriate studies. Once an immigrant has completed suitable integration training for about a year, there are often delays between this and the next stages of education. Combining reading and writing skills with individualised basic education for adults provides an effective and progressive educational set in which the student can progress at a pace consistent with his/her own capabilities without interruption. Without knowledge or skills equivalent to comprehensive school, Finnish society will remain in a very weak position. Human educational capital is needed in work and everyday life, and it is up to the public authorities to ensure that everyone has access to it. With this in mind, the reform of the Basic Education Act is now before you, ladies and gentlemen, and according to Finnish practice, the Finnish National Board of Education will immediately begin preparing the basics of the curriculum for education in accordance with the new law. Overall, the reform will be completed in 2018. Even before that, from the Ministry of Education and Culture, we have tried to ensure that everyone who needs basic education has a place already this autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u127	Mr President! I think that this government proposal is good and necessary. It is a pleasure to start assessing it in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, because the people who will be affected by this topic are mainly immigrants to whom this has been targeted, and it goes without saying that reading and writing skills are absolutely necessary if you are to work in Finland and exercise such different civil rights but also civic obligations. It requires reading and writing skills. It may be a little inappropriate, but I'll say it anyway, when I got this kind of "Aha" experience, when there's a lot going on here about this recognition of competence. I would now like to say to the parliamentary minutes, however, that we also now have a lot of Finnish children and young people, girls and boys, where there are also serious shortcomings in reading and writing skills when they finish primary school. I personally think that perhaps this is also something that should be sidelined and assessed in the context of this law. I am not going to go any deeper on this matter, even if I wish, but when it is not the point of this matter, I will now leave it out of my speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u128	Mr President! The savings made this year in the quality of basic education, equality and group sizes have been harshly reflected in the daily lives of pupils and teachers. The OAJ's trust worker survey reported that one in two municipalities has cut the hourly framework for basic education and more than a third the hourly framework for upper secondary schools from the previous year. In basic education, one in two municipalities has reduced the number of hours allocated, and in more than half of the municipalities group sizes have been increased in basic education and upper secondary schools by over 40 per cent. This line is now being continued by further cuts. This Government proposal 178, which aims to ensure equal opportunities for immigrants to work in Finnish working life and in society who have exceeded their compulsory education age, is very good. Combining literacy education with basic adult education into one whole is indeed a good thing and clarifies the teaching arrangements. However, I was surprised and alarmed by the fact that we are making such massive savings in education as we are, how are we going to cope with this important educational challenge with this ever-negligible money? My question to the Minister is: how are we going to cope with this new important education challenge?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u129	Mr President! We had to come all the way out here because the Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party already wanted to make a statement about this law in the context of this law, and indeed we regard this as a very worthy, necessary and urgent measure to promote integration. This proposed class-sharing plan is also appropriate and well thought out, and here it is positive to see the student's previous knowledge, identification, recognition and also this individualisation of teaching. In my opinion, this is exactly the kind of tailor-made plan the student has in view of previous backgrounds is extremely important, also since it is also possible to go to these studies to include professional study and also such optional vocational studies — indeed, when the focus is especially on those young people who have recently exceeded this compulsory age and whose knowledge does not yet correspond to that comprehensive school syllabus and then directly to that secondary education. However, there are three aspects that I would like to raise here. First of all, this access to basic education for immigrant mothers caring for children at home. That has already come up in the previous debate. In view of the family situation, the situation is many times in every family that when that little schoolboy comes home, the question is whether there is a lesson coming out and then perhaps together we will look at how to do the homework. Yes, it is of enormous importance whether the mother will then be able to participate and support the child in that situation. After all, a survey by the National Audit Office paid particular attention to the poor learning outcomes of second generation immigrants. It will then have to think about how we can make it possible for those mothers at home to become more actively involved in basic education and, of course, in studying Finnish. On the other hand, if you think about it, it is quite impossible to get into the Finnish labour market at the time when children grow up if you do not have knowledge equivalent to the comprehensive school certificate. Then later employment and integration into Finnish society will be extremely difficult. In other words, I would like the Minister to be able to take a position on the question that how to encourage those mothers at home, often quite young, who really do have shortcomings in that basic education. Are those maternity clinics, social workers, how would this encouragement go on the study path? Another point I would like to raise: this high-quality integration training has been provided by many educational institutions. And it is hoped that the knowledge of these who are already on this path, i.e. there, will be involved in providing this training, will be taken into account. Let us hope that this will not become a very big new competition rubba, which will then be trained in the field, can we say, with little experience and perhaps — as has been seen in some of these fast-forward educational needs — by educational institutions which do not necessarily have a very comprehensive educational background and perhaps have quite a newly recruited staff? And in what way will it be ensured that these strong experts are still involved in this integration training? Well, then, as a third point: I am not quite sure whether this proposal will include it, and whether it is intended that an immigrant youth should be able to study in such a way as to use unemployment allowance, for example, for this study, and whether it has been made possible, and whether, at the same time, when we have a debate on whether it is possible to study with unemployment allowance at the same time, there is a difference here. This is the third point on which I hope the Minister will give us further enlightenment. But all in all, a very positive proposal, and it is hoped that the integration of immigrants into Finland will be speeded up and improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u130	Mr President! As rarely as you get to compliment the government, now you have to say that a really good opening. Thank you for this! I believe that these questions and comments that have been raised by this representative, Mr Essayah, should be considered in the future, and perhaps these are the issues that the committee should also consider, because this life is comprehensive and if we really want to promote integration and study paths, then the family as a whole must be taken into account. That's a really good point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u131	Mr President! Thank you for the positive feedback on this important presentation and also for the comments that have been made. It is very good that Parliament is now able to take a closer look at this proposal and also to deal with it. I can tell you that since this reform will only come into force from the beginning of 2018 and it still needs to be covered by curricula and others, we have in particular drawn attention to the fact that we still have to respond to this situation, to the increased number of asylum seekers who came last year, as soon as possible and as soon as possible. For example, at the Ministry, we have improved access to education for these adults who need basic education, including by adding 120 places for private education providers to prepare basic education and 300 places for basic education for adults in the autumn. In other words, efforts have been made to improve the situation quickly. I am also pleased that there have been training providers in the field of education, who have been very active in this and are ready to offer their own expertise in order to facilitate this situation. Even at the previous point of discussion, immigrant women and mothers who remain at home were also raised here. It is particularly important to take this into account, because we have seen a lot and experience that many of these mothers get less attention and are unable to access the services. There are illiterate women who have not had access to education in their lives in the past, who have little chance of being integrated into Finnish society because of lack of contacts, it is not possible to meet Finns and other people in everyday life, and who then lack education. In particular, we need to be able to invest in them, and this is one way to do so, this presentation will help them. In addition to this, a great deal of service guidance is also needed. It is not only enough that we have services to offer, but we also need to find these mothers and help them move forward and encourage and try to influence the community around us to support women's education and opportunities for integration in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u132	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u133	Värderade Talman! Sulla's har ett sparkrav variants så dramatiskt för en hel yrkeskår som det ar sparkravet är. Vi talar förstås om en liten sumu i statsbudgeten, men den ox summan har dramatiska effekter för det kommentersiella fiskets framtid. Det handlar egentligen om viika verksamhetsförutsättningar regeringen vill skapa för det kommersiella fisket. Vi vet att yrkesfisket hela tiden dras med olika problem, som exempel kan jag nämna skarv, sel, kvoter av oika slag och en ändlös byråkrati. Och då vi beaktar att 20 percent av den fisk som äts i Finland är inhemsk så inser vi att det finns ganska mycket som borde goros. Regeringsprogrammet stipulerar om att skapa förutsättningar för kommersiellt fiske, men det rauh för utvecklingen i helt motsat riktning. Regeringen skrotar eller avvecklar förutsättningarna för kommersiellt fiske. Min fråga till minister Tiilikainen och till regeringen som hehet lyder som följande: Vi vet att försäkringar inte går att fås på den fria marknaden. Hur ska yrkesfiskarna kunna arbeta då en enda äftig storm kan förstöra all utrustning? Hur har regeringen tänkt att försäkringen i framtiden ska ordnas? Min andra fråga är: Vill regeringen faktiskt skapa battre och långsiktiga förutsättningar för kommentersiellt fiske? Om fallet är så rais så kan regeringen inte förverkliga detta sparkrav på det förreslagna sättet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u134	Mr President! There are only a handful of commercial fishermen in this country, former professional fishermen, and this government proposal, which has now been presented, absolutely undermines the ability of commercial fishermen to engage in fishing and dare to go even deeper. That is good, however, and I should like to thank the Minister for the fact that these reductions in compensation are limited out of seal damage. Seal damage is really bad in Kvarken and Ostrobothnia. But now, if compensation is reduced from 90% to 60%, it is already a risk that it will destabilise the entire profession. It destabilizes an entire profession. There are few commercial fishermen in this country, and especially those who are able to be full-time. If they now have to take the risk of something happening at work, it will kill the whole system. All other professions have their insurance policies, and they are able to trust that if an accident occurs, help comes from something. Professional fishermen would certainly also take out insurance on the free market themselves if they could take it, but, as we know, it is absolutely impossible. This is completely irresponsible of the government, especially in such a situation as employment, which is the case in the country, to take on the conditions of one profession and even to employ new people. This would be extremely important when we were just talking about this apprenticeship, because it would also be possible to study as a fisherman, for example, by means of an apprenticeship — a typical sector, and it would require professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u135	Mr President! Fisheries insurance is the last form of national support for fisheries, and it is now going to be saved. Up to now, the aid has compensated 90% of the damage to coastal vessels, big traps or trawls. It is now proposed that fishing gear for offshore vessels should be excluded from the aid scheme from 18 years onwards. Aid for damage to coastal fishing vessels, isors and trawls would be reduced from 90% to 70% and 90% of the damage caused by seals to trap traps would still be reimbursed. The damage to non-coastal vessels, big traps or trawls would continue to be compensated by 40%, i.e. the same amount as today. These cuts are so drastic that they threaten to bring down the fisheries insurance associations involved in these compensation cases and, at the same time, many fishermen run out of business opportunities. Open sea fishermen would no longer be compensated for storm damage or seal infringement. How does this scrapping of fishermen's insurance cover, when even this small amount of money is taken away from the practical level of fisheries, contribute to the objectives of the blue bioeconomy, which are also mentioned in the Government Programme? Many fishermen run out of business. This proposal stresses the importance of damage prevention. I am sure that all fishermen have been trying to do so up to now, but it does not always help when it comes to damage. On the other hand, the use of Finnish fish at the Finnish table should be increased, but this proposal does not contribute to this objective in any way, but hits it in the ear. It is, by the way, a real shame that the Minister of Responsibility has not been able to come here to hear this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u136	Mr President! As colleagues here have said with many mouths, this is a pure government proposal for savings. It seems strange that when we do not have too many of these professional fishermen in Finland and, as Mr Eloranta has well pointed out here, we are constantly emphasising, for example, the increase in domestic fish and hope that we will have domestic fish available at the tables throughout the year, then in this way the government will respond to these wishes. According to the estimates made by the fisheries insurance associations, this would indeed lead to a significant increase in these premiums for fishermen when this state aid disappears and, as has been said here, 80% would be directed at offshore fishing and about 20% at coastal fishing. It cannot be understood, however, that what other reasons are here than simply the desire to save? I agree with colleagues in this regard that it would have been important for the minister of responsibility to be here to respond to his call.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u137	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u138	Mr President! The government proposal now under discussion is part of the crisis package agreed in the agriculture budget debate. The purpose of this proposal is to alleviate the problems of the worst-cases in the financial crisis, which have been estimated at around 3,000. As early as the end of May, Minister Tiilikainen's working group on farm finance proposed the granting of a 70 % State guarantee on the marginal lending facility of EUR 230 million to be granted from bank funds. Thirty per cent would therefore have to be an entirely own guarantee in addition to this state guarantee, and this state guarantee would be financed by the Agricultural Development Fund. The scheme would apply to farmers in temporary financial difficulties who, however, are in a position to continue to operate on a profitable basis. The maximum amount of credit per entrepreneur would not be large, it would be EUR 110000, of which the State guarantee would receive 70 %, or EUR 77000. Many farmers have also used interest subsidies for all five repayment-free years and five interest-free years for government loans. The aim is to increase the maximum number of these from five to eight, which is also a very welcome reform for farms with financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u139	Mr President! We all know that agriculture is facing major profitability problems. Over the past year, agriculture has also been dealt with very extensively in this Chamber, including through the inter-optimal issue, and agricultural rescue operations seem to have very firm support in this Chamber. Now the government has put forward a crisis package, one of which is the granting of state guarantees. We have estimated that there are some 2000 to 3000 farms in difficulty with liquidity, and it is hoped that this will also be saved in that situation. In addition, this draft law proposes to amend the suspension of the repayments of both interest subsidies and government loans so that additional years would be added to the deferrals and so would interest-free years. Indeed, there is a market failure in the agricultural sector, largely due to the effects of Russian counter-impositions on Finland's exports, especially milk exports, but then these sanctions have also resulted in a situation in Western Europe, which has caused overproduction for many product groups and thus prevented the rise in producer prices. It is therefore important that a crisis package be put in place to address this situation. Let us hope that this bill will be made available as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u140	Mr President! Indeed, as Mrs Hautala said earlier, the opposition, under the leadership of the Christian Democrats, put an intermediate question on this agricultural situation last spring and on how the government can respond to it. It is true that these reasons, which have caused the crisis in agriculture, do not, in itself, have the blame of the government. This is the background to these sanctions, where there is a longer-term fall in producer prices, where there is the dismantling of milk quotas — all of which together have caused dairy farms in particular to be the ones that have suffered. In that area of Eastern Finland, it is alarming when three municipalities have had to distribute food vouchers to farmers, because the situation has become so crisis-stricken, and Savon Voima told us last summer that about a dozen farms have been in a situation where electricity has been cut off because of unpaid bills, and in that sense it has to be said that this was the last moment since to come to the aid of these farmers. It is important that both these free-of-charge years are increased and then the amount of the State guarantee is increased. Of course in such a situation you must then also think about it for a longer term solution, but definitely the crisis package is necessary, and let's just hope that this does not part of the premises now come too late.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u141	Mr President! I also think that this is a good proposal. Of course, it only helps a limited number of farmers, and that is also rather small, but there is a real need. I too hope, just as Mrs Hautala has done here, that this will also be dealt with quickly, so that, in due course, this assistance will come to those who are entitled as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u142	Mr President! As Mrs Essayah has just said about these milk quota bites, I would like to point out in this connection that the European Union's withdrawal of the milk quota system was already set about 10 years ago. The European Union also saw this situation as far as milk production is concerned, and it was unfortunate that the EU did not withdraw this policy but allowed it to happen. This has led to an increase in the market failure in Europe, i.e. Ireland, for example, has increased milk production by 34% between January and March of this year, and in many other Central European countries the increase in milk production has been around 10%, which means that the increase in milk production per country has even been greater than the total milk production in Finland. This has pushed the price of milk in Europe to a very low level. In many EU Member States, the price of milk per litre is currently between 20 and 25 cents. Fortunately, dairy farmers in Finland have been able to pay a further price of between 35 and 40 cents per litre. But because of this: as we see, the European Union's measures to alleviate the crisis in agriculture have been rather limited, and it is therefore extremely important that we also have domestic measures to make this easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u143	Mr President! That is where Mrs Hautala and Mrs Hautala were just reminded of how it went, and Mrs Hautala here rightly said that these guidelines were already made in good time, but I remember that the final decision on the subject was taken during my own period of time, and yes the Finnish meps there, quite as one front, were there, resisting and expressing the concerns that this abolition of quotas will then mean in reality. Just as Mrs Hautala pointed out, there are countries there, Ireland and France, for example, which have been able to increase their milk production in this situation. Of course, there are unhappy producers in those countries too. In that sense, of course, it is the sum of many unfortunate coincidences that then this coercive issue coincided with the fact that these withdrawals of quotas were really beginning to show up in that market situation. In that sense, of course, it would have been desirable for the EU to have had a little greater hand-out since then, in this situation, for these very farmers and producers, who have been particularly affected by this situation of sanctions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u144	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u145	Mr President! This amendment to the Farmers' Holiday Services Act also relates to the agricultural crisis package agreed in the Budget Committee. A lot of structural development is taking place in the livestock economy, in Finnish to put an end to production, among other things because of this weakened income development. Now, in the crisis package, it was decided that these funds saved from relief expenditure will be used next year, which is the subject of this proposal, to reduce the relief payments and to reduce the compensatory payments. It is excellent that agriculture should be allowed to keep these funds, which have now been allocated to this relief activity, but which can now be redirected to a reduction because of this structural development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u146	Mr President! This temporary amendment of the Farmers' Holiday Services Act is part of the agricultural crisis package and will indeed be needed. In the recent debate we have already said that the profitability of agriculture has deteriorated, and it has inevitably been reflected in the survival of farmers. Now that the size of the farm has increased and the number of farm holdings in farmers has decreased, this year there have been savings in the funds that can now be used to finance this. Of course, a very large change in the euro will not be possible. At present, the price of replacement assistance is about EUR 13.5 per hour, and after the adoption of this bill it will be reduced by EUR 1.5, i.e. EUR 12. The decline in the profitability of agriculture has led farmers to the limit of their survival, and messages have already come from different parts of Finland that farmers have not used substitute aid and then gone sick to work, which has substantially weakened their ability to cope. Let us hope that this bill will also make it easier for farmers to cope and to assume that no one has to go to work sick.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u147	Mr President! However, next year, the hourly rate of imputed replacement assistance linked to the income of entrepreneurs will be reduced by 31%, not in euro but in relative terms, and the hourly price will be reduced from the current EUR 13.50 to EUR 12. It is important, however, that approximately 95 per cent of the substitute allowance is used in the event of invalidity or maternity leave or other family leave. Family leave is therefore a very important element in making it easier for farmers to cope, to which, of course, these problems of profitability are entirely seamlessly linked, as well as the fact that the work of the farmer is known to be extremely binding, was a matter of 24 hours or of any season. However, there are no maternity leave or parental leave on farms. Sick people are still working in spite of this foster care system when a surrogate cannot afford to be hired. It is therefore a good thing that the abolition of reserve and control visits would continue to reduce the use of these services, and that would be desirable. It is clear that the level of payment should by no means become an obstacle to the use of these services, and new types of service vouchers have also been proposed, which could target more than just the work of the farm. It could be used, among other things, for cleaning aid and in this way also for expanding, diversifying other business activities in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u148	Mr President! Then, if the government can be commended, then it must be made public. This point must be commended for the fact that the important issue is indeed being addressed here. A lot of contact has been made with me because we cannot afford to hire vacationers, that we should be able to get some kind of help when we are simply unable to press under the pressure that we have had recently, because the money did not come on time, which is also quite strange at this time, when men visit even a month, that money cannot be transferred from one bank account to another. I can't believe it. But another problem may also be what has been said that there are no vacationers. It's also one. When we have spoken here about adult education and training in areas where people are needed, there is also one area where people are needed. In addition, as regards the costs incurred by producers, it must be borne in mind that everything affects producer prices, and we in Finland have very low producer prices in relation to sales prices and the profits of intermediaries in between. It is precisely because of this that I thank the Government very much for pointing out that the Finnish countryside must be able to keep alive and that Finnish farmers must be able to keep the bread away so well that there is enough bread for anyone but their own family to take out of the farm, and so that they can also train their own offspring. That much must be referred to a little earlier than what has been said today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u149	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for this proposal. This has a very diverse effect. Of course, the most important thing in this proposal is that our farmers should be better able to take care of their own well-being and well-being and now use these relief services more than they have used so far. This also has an impact on animal welfare, among other things. I have had a lot of contact with animal welfare people and also with veterinary doctors who carry out these surveillance visits. They have been very concerned about the fact that there is fatigue, fatigue in the family, and they are not in a position to intervene in this, so that it would be hoped that this too would support the idea that our veterinarians, veterinary surgeons, our vacation system, our health care together would support the survival and well-being of these farmers, and thus also strengthen the livelihood, of course, but also animal welfare. So if we do this well, this show will win everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u150	Mr President! Yes, this must be seen above all as a matter of principle for farmers in this difficult situation and precisely because they want to support the self-sustaining of the entrepreneur. The EUR 1.5 reduction in the hourly price is not very large, and I must say that the reason that this can be done is rather morbid, that is to say that the farms have been closed down and that there has been no use of these leave payments or, simply, because of the cycle of fatigue, they are no longer able to apply for them. In that sense, when this money has been obtained, it certainly does not say what a good situation it is in this area, but it must indeed be seen as part of this crisis package and as an important hand in principle. Mr Tolppanen raised a good point about me, that is, how to get people on the holiday side today. Even in my own municipality of residence, I must say, some are vacationers from the other side of the Gulf of Finland, who then take care of the holiday services of the municipality of Upper Savo. That's all right, we have free movement, and if you can't find the workforce in your own village, then you're lucky to get it out of your own village. But here I think we should consider, for example, the way in which young people, young people in vocational training, are told about the agricultural sector and how to encourage them to apply to a sector where there is also a great deal of freedom and opportunity to work with animals and a lot of things that you might imagine young people are interested in today. But has it been properly marketed in the field of education?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u151	Mr President! Very often, unfortunately, if there is a shortage of labour in some sector in this country, it is not so much because we do not have people who know how to do that work and who even want to do it. The reason is that the salary is simply so low that it does not live. That is certainly one thing that also makes it difficult in rural areas to get vacationers on vacation. This would be something to pay attention to. Of course it is not done in this Chamber, but it is therefore good that special attention has now been paid to the need for help for producers, the need for help for farmers and farmers. It is, by the way, very important because we must have some form of self-sufficiency in this country. We have to keep people working in our countryside. We have to get potatoes from there and get grain from there and protein, meat and why not fish, whatever it is you get from there. But what is very important is that we can really get skilled people there and with the kind of pay we have to live on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u152	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u153	Mr President! The purpose of the European Union harmonisation legislation on products is to ensure that the product meets the essential health and safety requirements and that it can be placed on the market and used without hindrance. Before placing the product on the market, the economic operator, such as the manufacturer, shall ensure its conformity by means of different assessment procedures. Part of the assessment procedures, such as EU type-examination, shall use the services of an external body recognised as a notified body. A notified body shall mean an assessment body approved by a Member State of the European Union, the adoption of which shall be based on the harmonisation acts of the European Union in respect of products. The proposal proposes to amend the law on the approval of assessment bodies in the field of health and safety at work. That law provides for the recognition of bodies carrying out conformity assessment services for machinery, work equipment, personal protective equipment and other technical equipment as notified bodies. These changes are due to the European Union Regulations on PPE and cableway installations. These regulations are, in principle, directly applicable law and do not require national enforcement measures. However, those Regulations require the Member State to designate a notifying authority responsible for the approval of the bodies providing these conformity assessment services to act as a notified body, to inform the Commission of the European Union and the other Member States of the bodies it has approved, and to monitor those bodies. The purpose would be to continue to apply the legislative acts of the competent authority but to apply directly the PPE and cableway equipment regulation to the conditions and activities of the approval of the assessment body. According to the Government proposal, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health would continue to be the authority responsible for approval and notification. At present, the notified body referred to in the PPE Directive has been approved as the Finnish Institute for Occupational Health and the notified body referred to in the Cableway Installations Directive as Inspecta Audit Ltd. They shall be required to apply for a notified body within the meaning of the Regulations on PPE and cableway installations if they wish to continue their activities as such notified body. The conditions for approval of the assessment body shall be primarily addressed by accreditation. The provisions concerning the notification of conformity assessment bodies in the EU Regulations on PPE and cableway installations shall apply from 21 October 2016. It is therefore proposed to enter into force on 21 October. or as soon as possible thereafter. The entry into force and transitional provisions would ensure that an assessment body already recognised as a notified body could continue its activities without interruption. The presentation has been prepared as a post at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. During the preparation, cooperation has been made with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the FINAS accreditation unit, the Finnish Institute for Occupational Health and Inspecta Audita Oy. The proposal has been discussed and adopted by the tripartite Advisory Board on Safety and Health at Work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u154	Mr President! I must say that we have quite a lot of legislation of this kind, that we will have to amend our own legislation to comply with the EU directive or, as in this case, with the EU regulation. It could be said in itself that these are very technical changes that are being made here. Sometimes it comes to the idea that quite a lot of ministries will then be employed with these small changes. As described above by the Minister, nothing really changes here, but things must now only be recorded in the legislation on the basis of this regulation, as it were. Nothing but luck and success. There is hardly any great opposition to this in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u155	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u156	Mr President! The purpose of the Government proposal submitted to the Parliament is to supplement the pharmaceutical reimbursement savings made from the beginning of 2016 to EUR 134 million from the beginning of 2017. In the proposal, it is proposed that the savings in reimbursement of medicinal products be implemented through a package of measures consisting of a wide range of measures and mainly targeted at pharmaceutical operators. It is proposed that the proposals be implemented by amending those laws. Furthermore, as part of the package of measures required for savings, it is proposed to take into account the reforms that will be implemented by means of amendments to the regulations or the implementation of which will not require legislative changes but which will contribute to savings in the pharmaceutical reimbursement system. The proposed model estimates savings to be compiled by means that are health and pharmaceutical policy-based and that would promote price competition for medicines, reduce drug losses and promote rational medical treatment. The means have been mapped out in a report by Professor Heikki Ruskoaho. It is proposed that the Health Insurance Act, in order to increase price competition, should provide for the determination of the wholesale price of the first biosimilar to the pharmaceutical reimbursement scheme and for the reassessment of the reasonableness of the wholesale price of similar biological original products. Similarly, the provisions on the re-evaluation of the wholesale price of the original products would be revised when the replacement system becomes a new parallel product. However, in order to increase price competition, it is proposed to extend the reference price system to parallel imports and parallel distribution products, while keeping the products in line with the price fixing and to reduce the price pipeline provided for in the pharmaceutical law. In order to reduce pharmaceutical waste and promote rational medical treatment, it is proposed to make changes to the delivery intervals for products to be replaced in accordance with the Health Insurance Act. It is proposed that the amount of expensive medicines to be reimbursed should be limited to one month. In the case of basic substitution medicinal products, it would be necessary that the previous batch of medicinal products be almost fully used before a new batch of medicinal products can be supplied as replacement. In this respect, the procedure to be introduced would be in line with the practice of replacing medicinal products for special reimbursement. It is proposed to revise the special reimbursement scheme by transferring non-insulin products from the antidiabetic medicinal products to the lower special reimbursement category. Insulin treatment, as a substitute for power of action, would remain in the upper special replacement class for all diabetic patients. The amendment would later be implemented by amending the Government Decree. It is also proposed to introduce a new risk-sharing procedure to allow the controlled introduction of new medicines. The risk-sharing model would be laid down in the Health Insurance Act and the procedure would be part of the substitution and price fixing procedure. The procedural provisions would be in force within a time limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u157	Mr President! The aim of the Government proposal is to supplement the annual pharmaceutical compensation savings that entered into force in 2016 so that a total of EUR 150 million will come into force next year. It is proposed that good and less good measures should be taken to achieve pharmaceutical reimbursement savings. Good measures include promoting price competition, reducing pharmaceutical waste and promoting rational medical treatment. It is also proposed to introduce a new risk-sharing procedure to promote the entry of new and innovative medicines into the market. These are sensible and good ways to improve the efficiency of spending. On the other hand, the wrong and unduly punitive saving of diabetics is a reduction in the specific substitution rate for non-insulin medicines used for diabetes treatment from 100% to 65%. Just as the Diabetes Federation has said, the draft law on reducing the level of reimbursement for diabetes medicines is not acceptable on social, therapeutic or even economic grounds. If implemented, the proposal would increase health inequalities by sharing diabetes with those who are financially able to receive the medical treatment they need and those who are forced to reduce the care they need due to lack of resources. Insulin treatment is not the best treatment for all diabetics. It is difficult to justify that substitution is calculated between different forms of treatment for the same disease. According to the current legislation, the specific reparability is based on the difficulty of the disease and the need for the medicine needed to treat it. Lifestyles are not included in the legislation, but they now justify this reduction in substitutability. If the impact of lifestyles were to be taken as a criterion for compensation, the legislation on the reimbursement system should be broadly amended, since lifestyles have an impact on a wide range of diseases, but, on the other hand, the impact of lifestyles and the role of the disease will be different for different individuals. It should be remembered that type 2 diabetes is a highly hereditary disease. Lifestyles are not a lasting argument for why the excess should be increased in the case of non-insulin treatment. It is also problematic to justify the use of life-style replacement surgery for diabetes if, at the same time, it does not increase or provide additional resources for lifestyle guidance for diabetics. Mr President! Drug replacement surgery is now unfairly targeted at one patient group, and within the diabetic patient group, for those for whom treatment with insulin medicines is not optimal. If drug reimbursement savings are made, they should be done by looking at the entire reimbursement system rationally and on an equal footing. It should also be noted that these reductions in the substitution of antidiabetic agents are mainly targeted at the elderly. For elderly people whose national pension is also being cut. For elderly people whose health care customer fees are also increased. Various savings are already being accumulated for older people on low incomes. It has to be said that these savings are not targeted fairly or sensibly. It may also happen that this savings will not be a saving at the end of the day. It may be that instead of new and expensive but easy to use diabetes medicines, low-income customers will increasingly need to be treated with a fully replaceable insulin. At the same time, the total cost of healthcare may increase due to additional treatment visits and problems. When a medicine is chosen not on therapeutic but economic grounds, it may result in a large additional bill due to additional illnesses due to inadequate treatment. I would therefore like the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to review this draft law in committee on the substitution of this diabetes treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u158	Mr President! This proposal proposes, among other things, that expensive medicines cost about EUR 1 000 a month should be applied for only every month. The same is true for all basic medicinal products that can only be applied for one month at a time. This may be a good thing if we make sure that when these smaller items are purchased — when medicines are expensive anyway — they remain at the same price as when they were bought at the same time. We usually have such a situation in those medicines that when you buy bigger packages, then it wants to be a little cheaper than if you buy smaller packages. Apart from that, I would also like the Minister of State to take into account the fact that people who need such medicines are certainly very ill and cannot be without these medicines and these will cost travel when they go to the pharmacy to pick them up. Especially if you live in rural areas, it may be a long trip, and then you should in some way also pay for this cost of applying for a medicine, because otherwise it will be for people who are already having difficulties because of this difficult illness and because of the very expensive medicines, and there may be an issue of age and then a small pension. I would also like to say a few words about this issue of diabetes, as the previous speaker has just mentioned. It is now the case that, by reducing the substitutability of these medicines, for most of them this means a loss of between EUR 10 and 30 per year. There is good reason to say that it is not very much, but for 5% of diabetics it amounts to EUR 300. This 5% of diabetics means 16,000 people. These 16,000 people are, as a rule, elderly people, they have secondary diabetes, may be self-inflicted, but may also be a family burden, and that is, you know, our fastest growing folklore today in Finland. It has been said that diabetes is worse than cancer. What do you mean, let's ask. Because diabetes doesn't improve. It can be treated, you can live with it, but it doesn't get better. Cancer can be cured. A person with diabetes needs his medicine at all times, not just insulin. If a person cannot afford this extra cost of EUR 300 if diabetes is not treated, what will happen? Well, what are the chances? First, blindness: diabetes affects vision and blinds people. Diabetes takes your legs: there are amputations. Diabetes eats the kidneys: people are undergoing dialysis. And when it comes to these systems, the road is quite long, painful and difficult to the end. So there, then, through metabolic syndrome, almost certainly will be cardiovascular diseases, and there will then be no return to a healthy person’s life. This, Minister, is something I would like you to pay attention to for these 5% — there are 16,000 of them — that it would not happen now that, when saved, the famous child goes along with its bathwater. Dialysis is expensive, blindness is expensive, amputations are expensive, after there is a need for auxiliary staff at home, for example, all the time, and there will certainly be more institutional treatments. It's gonna cost you a lot of money. It's gonna cost a lot more than this savings, which is what's coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u159	Mr President! The government is aiming for large pharmaceutical savings, and this government proposal contains a number of good reforms to the reference price system that should be implemented regardless of the target for pharmaceutical savings. I would like to quote directly from the opinion of the THL: "The clear lack of a draft law is the exclusion of a large number of available savings instruments from the proposed measures. A much wider range of instruments would be needed to implement the health and economic benefits of medicines savings." I would like to quote from the opinion of the THL: "The draft law does not take into account at all the impact of the current pharmaceutical tax on retail prices for medicinal products. Numerous international comparative studies show that wholesale prices of medicines are European average or slightly below the European average in Finland. However, retail prices of medicines in Finland are significantly higher than those in the control countries. The difference in the price of medicines in the main control countries is mainly explained by the exceptionally high sales margins of pharmacies determined by the pharmaceutical rate." This was, therefore, directly from the opinion of the THL. I will continue by quoting two THL researchers' statements in which they take a stand on the pharmaceutical market and its opening-up: "The most effective way of curbing the increase in pharmaceutical expenditure is to liberalise the pharmaceutical market. However, the pharmaceutical market needs to be regulated carefully so that the pharmaceutical market remains functioning and fair to all citizens. Liberalisation of the pharmaceutical market would have significant economic and public health benefits. On the basis of international experience, the liberalisation of the pharmacy market can be expected to reduce retail prices of medicinal products by between 10% and 20%. The previous liberalisation of sales of nicotine products in Finland has reduced retail prices by around 15%." The reason I am quoting THL here is that these pharmaceutical savings can be achieved by far fairer means. As THL stated, the pharmacy margin is exceptionally high in Finland. The Competition and Consumer Authority has stated that the more restrictions on the freedom to operate of businesses, in this case pharmacies, when they organise their activities, the less cost-effective the pharmacies will be. At the same time, cost-effectiveness is likely to lead to unnecessarily expensive prices for medicines. As pharmacies operate more efficiently, they do not need such a large margin of government regulation, but could reduce the margins of pharmacies and the prices of medicines. Professor Ari Hyytinen of the University of Jyväskylä estimates that the annual transfer to pharmacies by consumers and taxpayers is approximately EUR 90-100 million. So this is an extra thing we're paying pharmacies. Also the CEO of Kela, former Minister of Social Affairs and Health, Liisa Hyssälä has changed her opinion and is now suggesting that we should explore the different options for opening up the sale of medicines to competition. There is a very fair alternative to these pharmaceutical savings and it is the opening up of competition in the pharmacy market, where there is no need to compromise on pharmaceutical safety at all. The question is that the authority would no longer determine how many pharmacies are needed, where pharmacies operate, who these pharmacies are, who are authorised, and in particular that the fixed price for medicines would be the ceiling price. The criteria for setting up a pharmacy would remain unchanged. This would have clear public health benefits, as there is much evidence that the price of medicines prevents many from buying the medicines they need. If we can use this to bring down the price of medicines, then it is also a question of justice. Kela spends approximately 1.4 billion a year on medical expenses, and these are growing. If, for example, these percentages presented by THL researchers could be realised, it would be much more than this professor Hyytinen put forward for 90 to 100 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u160	Mr President! In this government proposal, there are ways in which we can support the savings in reimbursement of medicines, in particular by increasing price competition and also by reducing pharmaceutical waste and promoting rational medical treatment. However, as some colleagues have done here, this revision of the so-called special compensation system, which means reducing the reimbursement of diabetes medicines, is unfortunately not the way in which the Christian Democrats support it. If you look at the total reduction in pharmaceutical reimbursement from the beginning of 2017, it will be up to EUR 134 million, of which the central government will account for approximately EUR 60 million, and it must be borne in mind that these reimbursements have already been cut several times during this government period and that the increase in the share of these reimbursements will in most cases be a direct cut in the situation of older people and also those who are already suffering from low incomes. In general, these cuts are directed at the already most vulnerable citizens, and the Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party considers these cuts to be excessive, and we will also bring our own proposal in this regard in the presentation of the alternative budget. But this reduction in pharmaceutical waste, which is contained in this proposal, can be said to be extremely good that this is being addressed. And although Mr Vartia's time worm figures were read to pharmacies in Finland, it must be noted that in this case pharmacies have been doing good work together and have considered the ways by which, for example, it is by regulating these sizes of pharmaceutical packages, especially for old people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u161	Mr President! It is easy to agree with these previous speeches which have now been made here. Of course, it is a great pity that these savings will now be made again from sick people, from elderly people and then from one group of patients. This pharmaceutical reimbursement system should be considered as a whole. I would have liked the whole pharmaceutical system to have had the courage to look at other international models or other models that ensure that every person, and especially those who use a lot of medicines and who are low-income people, has access to self-care, and of course this whole includes the planning of medical treatment as part of health care. This is also of real concern to the extent that the government has already increased the exclusivity of medicines to EUR 50 during this period, the exclusivity of medicines to EUR 3.50 per year, the excess of the annual responsibilities to EUR 2.50, the customer fees for social and health services to EUR 30 per cent, the exclusivity of travel allowances to EUR 4.50, and now the government is refocusing these increases on the same population. Then, of course, we cannot fail to mention, as has been said, that well-treated diabetes is the cheapest diabetes, and now, as has been said here, the greatest risk of this type of diabetes is that, if it is untreated, it will become associated diseases with multiple costs for society. — — — — Mr President, I will be there. Mr President! I'll continue with a few more things here. — As I said, untreated diabetes is very expensive for society, especially if diabetes is associated with associated diseases with multiple costs compared to diabetes. I have been in the Parliament's diabetes group, and there we estimate a few years ago that the medical costs of diabetes alone would be EUR 1.35 billion, and in that regard it is a very big nation's disease, and we should focus above all on the comprehensive prevention of this diabetes and hence on more effective treatment, and then also in a natural way to get them savings rather than in this kind of mechanical way, which is now targeted on patients with type two diabetes. As has been said here, type 2 diabetes is a highly hereditary disease, although it can also be prevented and facilitated in some way by lifestyle, and it is therefore very important to provide guidance and advice. This also applies to older people. More than half of the patients with type 2 diabetes are over 65 years of age, i.e. now if we look at all the savings that the government has made to older people, sick people, then once again for these type 2 diabetes patients, this is the main target for those over 65 years of age. The positive thing — and I must say this, as has already been said here — is that the government is seeking to reduce pharmaceutical waste and promote rational medical treatment. Among other things, it is suggested that expensive medicines should be replaced at once by just one month’s need. I think it is good in many ways, especially in those situations when it comes to expensive medicines and, for example, looking at new medicines for cancer patients, to see if this medicine is suitable for the patient or not. In these situations, it is very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u162	Mr President! Perhaps one of the most unfair targets of the government's cutting policy is the cuts in the reimbursement of medicines, which are now under discussion. I think it would be humane for the reimbursement system to ensure, above all, the availability of adequate medical treatment for those with high and low incomes, but it seems that this government does not agree. In fact, it has already been said in this debate that if diabetes is not treated properly, diabetes is threatened by many serious adjunctive diseases, such as kidney diseases with dialyses, infarcts, nerve damage, amputations, blindness, and so on. Has the government estimated whether these cuts will now bring savings or will they increase costs in the future with the possible increase in these associated diseases? Treatment of supplementary diabetes is already one of the biggest health care expenditures. Mr President! With the minister here in the Chamber present, I would have asked about this motion that now that non-insulin products are transferred to the lower replacement category, what is this choice made from. Why has this been done? For example, when it comes to biological medicines, which are introduced only at a time when traditional medicines do not achieve metabolic control, it seems quite unreasonable that in such a situation we should then return to treatment that may not have been balanced in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u163	Mr President! It is good to continue on this last point, because I myself would have asked this question, that now that insulin treatment has 100% substitutability and those others will not, have you assessed how this will also guide the use of medicines in patients with diabetes? Will this in practice mean that we will have diabetes patients who will then use insulin medicine simply because it has 100% substitutability, or how will this be done in the future? How do you make sure this doesn't happen? Then, in fact, I will return to the speech I made just now on these travel allowances. Now we expect the patient to pick up the necessary medicines every month, which in many respects is all right, but now the Health Insurance Act does not cover travel expenses if these pharmacy trips are made. Now we have people who are difficult to deal with, whether they are moving in accordance with the Social Welfare Act or otherwise, for example, they need taxis to get these necessary medicines, have you taken any account of this in the Health Insurance Act or have considered this in any way, that how can we take account of these compulsory travel costs to pharmacies, that patients receive these necessary medicines?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u164	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate and feedback. First of all, Mr Vartia, this pharmacy system is good enough for me as it is, as the government programme has outlined with its pharmaceutical savings. Of course, the debate can continue, but I was not quite clear in your good speech on how this will reduce the price of prescription medicines and how to save on health insurance. But I still agree with what I have said before that when you have the right to sell medicines, you also have a duty to advise. But like I said, let's keep this conversation going. Then, Mr Sarkkinen, I agree with many things, but I do not quite agree with the fact that the government is now calling for a standard of living disease in this case for type two antidiabetic medicines. Type two antidiabetics remain in the substitution category, in the substitution class, and are now compared to heart and blood pressure medicines on the same line. Congressman Tolppanen, you were talking about second-degree diabetes, apparently you were talking about type two diabetes. I am not a doctor, but I understand that if you talk — and now correct me if I misunderstood this speech — that if a diabetic already has such serious adjunctive diseases, retinopathy, he has kidney failure, then it will probably not be treated with the type two diabetes, but with insulins. And then should we switch to insulin because it has to be replaced 100%, so I understand that the basis for it must of course be medical, which is probably not what this system is intended to decide. Then that's the doctor's decision. But then to what has risen here when we talk about standard of living diseases. Thank you for that. I absolutely want to promote the non-pharmaceutical treatment of all diseases, and I believe that we should be involved in this rational medical treatment and its promotion, that is to say, we are talking about diet, exercise, lifestyles. I want to do everything I can for such things, and that includes yes — whether Mr. Pekonen or Mr. Sarkkinen or Mr. Kiljunen, perhaps you all talked about it — that there must be guidance and advice, and thank you for this message. This is what I want to take forward. Mr Kiljunen, it is always a pleasure to listen to your constructive discussions, your speeches. This matter of travel compensation: I have not looked at this in this context on these few days of ministers, but it is quite clear to those who travel from there and who may or may not be low incomes, high expenditure on medicines, but there is no such answer as to whether it has been under examination. Then these figures have been imported here. I seem to have exactly the same figures as those for the type of diabetes group. It is true that for the majority, 141,000 according to this calculation, which I have received, it is EUR 10. Then for 66,000 it is between EUR 10 and EUR 50 and so on. I'm sure we're talking about the same numbers. I have no objection to it if the Committee on Social Affairs and Health puts some statements on it, development work, and if there is a place where these savings can be sought elsewhere, but, of course, as Minister of responsibility, I am committed to the budget that has been allocated to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The medicine ceiling remains unchanged. It is estimated that EUR 610 in 2016, which will fall to EUR 605 in 2017. In other words, that base will still remain there in order to reduce the cost of medicines. Mr President! Did I answer about all the questions here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u165	All right, there's still a chance. The discussion will be continued with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u166	Mr President! This system is, in its simplicity, an easy way to achieve savings in medicines, and it is understandable that if a fixed price were to be converted into a roof price for self-care medicines, then there would be a chance for pharmacies to compete with each other and lower prices. This may be a little more complicated than what scientists are talking about, but it has to do with the fact that today, when there are only small players in the market, they are inevitably inefficient. If it is possible for one entity to have more pharmacies, the operation will become more efficient, and it will make it possible for individual events and individual sales not to have the same level of coverage and the activity to be profitable. Currently, the pharmacy market does not compete at all, unlike all other industries in Finland, except taxis. A system like this can't be effective. If we had operators who run more than one pharmacy at a time, their bargaining power in buying in medicines alone would be so much greater that they would have the opportunity to press the buy-in price, which would then allow the price board to be reduced again. A good example of this was this example of Nicorete used by THL researchers: When it moved to the grocery trade — which is a separate discussion — its price fell by 15 %, even though the product is the same. This price decreased because the bargaining power of the grocery trade is so much greater that it can buy these products at a lower price. If there are more operators on the market competing for these customers, one of the most important means of competition is that medicines can be sold at a lower price than other pharmacies,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u167	Mr President! These levels of substitution are defined by the Regulation according to the severity of the disease and thus diabetes has been included in this higher substitution category. Of course, because of these savings, diabetes does not turn into any easier disease, that is to say, it is difficult to see this reason and it is difficult to see it, even in the sense that part of diabetes treatment remains in the higher substitution class and some goes into this lower substitution class. When different medicines that are suitable for different people — some are suitable for insulin, others are suitable for other medicines — there is a special argument that it is fully comparable to cardiovascular diseases for this non-insulin treatment. That this should be done on a medical basis, not on a cost-saving basis. This government proposal is based on these lifestyle changes and on the fact that the change can treat diabetes, which is partly true, but if this possibility of lifestyle change were to affect disease, if it is taken as a broader basis for the compensation system, then it should be done on a broad basis. It must be remembered that diabetes is a highly hereditary disease, not only can it be affected by lifestyle changes. Of course, we must support non-pharmaceutical treatment, but it cannot be done in such a way that people cannot afford to buy medicines; it must be done through positive incentives, guidance and advice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u168	Mr President! I am not really a doctor either, but I can tell the Minister that if the minister does not know that there is much more diabetes than type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Among other things, alpha is one that was discovered by Finnish researchers, and a precision medicine is being developed. I'm sure some of these will be passed on, and then some of them may be purchased on their own. I don't know. But that I have understood and I know for sure that both insulin and these other medicines are always prescribed by a doctor, and when it comes to diabetes, then the side effects of diabetes, the side effects, as far as diabetes is concerned, are ahead. If you don't treat it, if you don't get the sugar levels down in one style or another, then you really are about to be on dialysis, the macular bottoms go, and then amputation is one possibility. I'm sure you can visit those wards, even if you're looking at these people, and then you can see what it is. Of course, I know that the Minister is a health care person, that I am sure he has seen before that we do not have to go there. But then there's the other thing: When we were talking about these drug prices, whether they are expensive or cheap, what we have the problem is that when we get new drugs to the pharmacy, the pharmacists will not give it a cheaper medicine to replace, even if it could be replaced by another medicine, because we have this kind of system there. And I know that some medicines are not allowed to be replaced by a cheaper product, even if the active ingredient is the same. Can the Minister explain why this is the case, why not all medicines can be switched to a cheaper option if the cheaper option is available? And then the point is, why aren't new drugs replaced as soon as they get here? Why wait a year or two before
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u169	Mr President! The Minister said that, of course, medicines should be prescribed on medical grounds, depending on what is best for the patient at any given time, but there has already been a worrying message from people that, in the face of these surgeries, people are counting whether they will be able to afford medicines in the future, whether the money will be sufficient for the prescribed medical treatment. People are also well aware of their own diseases and the costs of the disease today, and I do believe that many doctors will have to wonder whether the patient will then prescribe a medicine that the patient can afford in the future, or whether the patient will then prescribe a medicine that the patient may not use, not apply for at the pharmacy, because of the excessive costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u170	Mr President! It has already been mentioned here that a cheaper medicine may not always be available or offered at a pharmacy. This is also one of the situations that arises when pharmacies do not compete with each other. If there is no other pharmacy in the area to which the customer can go, the pharmacy can act intentionally so that the most affordable medicine is not kept on the shelf, so that it can be sold as a more expensive and high-tech medicine. If we talk about these savings potentials, there are about 600 pharmacies in Finland and in 2014 they earned an average of 263,000. This is therefore the average earnings of all pharmacies, including those newly started. If you consider that this amount would be EUR 100,000 lower, that pharmacists would make an average of EUR 163000 per year, which is certainly an adequate incentive on average to run a pharmacy, then this would be a direct saving of EUR 60 million per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u171	Mr President! Just as has been said here, the pharmaceutical and pharmacy system is constantly being developed. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently preparing a proposal to amend the pharmaceutical law, which aims to improve the functioning of the pharmacy system in many ways. The functioning of pharmaceuticals and the pharmacy system will also be assessed in the context of the social welfare reform, so that the activities will provide better support for social and health services. Reform needs for pharmacy activities may be assessed separately in these contexts. I have heard that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is preparing a proposal for a regulation on the operation of companies operating on the premises of pharmacies. I'd like to ask, what is this? There has been a message that it is expected to generate an increase in tax revenue and means that there should not be a limited liability company activity on the premises of pharmacies which now sells anything other than medicines, such as nail polishes or the like. I would now like to ask you, Minister, what is the situation in this regard? I would also like to ask because Mr Vart, for his part, raised this broader issue, on which I do not agree with him, but it is not part of this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u172	Mr President! I listened to this discussion about that office, and when I noticed that this pharmacy issue was also brought up in connection with the medication savings, I thought my own opinion would come and tell me here in the hall. After all, pharmaceutical savings are an important issue, and this government proposal is very much to be welcomed. I personally see that the pharmacy system in Finland ensures safe access to and sale of medicines. Of course, I admit that the prices of medicines are high in Finland. Representative Vartia used a Finnish taxi as a metaphor. It is also true that the Finnish taxi is still well regulated for the time being, and the answer to that is that it also has quite a number of obligations, as is the case with the Finnish pharmacy system. Nicorette was used as an example. I'm sure the price has fallen when it comes to stores, but is Nicorette in all villages today the same price as it was in the pharmacy? I venture to doubt that it is also the market economy that manages that the price is based on the market, and that is how it is going to be. But I personally support this pharmaceutical savings and a safe pharmacy system so that we can all have access to high-quality and good medicines and good pharmacy services in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u173	Mr President! This is a very good thing now in this proposal that attempts are being made to curb the use of waste. By the way, we now have such a system that if there are medicines at home, for example, someone moves from it to the mana huts and the medication remains, then they can be returned to the pharmacy. But, Minister, has it ever been thought that pharmacies are obliged not only to receive those medicines but to redeem them? That is quite important if expensive medicines are involved, especially those who have had to pay for themselves. But now that this debate has expanded a little, I will ask the Minister: at what stage, or is there going to be a debate in the Ministry about these medicines that could possibly be transferred to the hand shop and, if so, what medicines could then be sold in retail stores? There are already medical cabinets at airports, for example, which provide ibuprofen and ketoprofen or paracetamol and patches, of course, and there are no pharmacists and there are no pharmaceutical professionals, but they are allowed to be sold there. Then why can't you sell them in a regular store? So much more to this pharmacy competition that I just met pharmacies in Vaasa in the pine week, a week ago on Monday, and they told me that it is Fimea, who now runs or decides on pharmacies' affairs, and there is now going to be a system like this, that we wonder if the pharmacy network could be increased. There'd be more pharmacies all over the place. What is the model of this situation at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u174	Representative Vart and then Minister Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u175	Mr President! This opening-up of competition in the pharmacy market would certainly not be presented by THL researchers, the Competition and Consumer Authority and the former Minister of Social Affairs and Health, the current CEO of Kela, if there were any threat to pharmaceutical safety. I wouldn't do that either. We're in competition with pharmaceutical companies. We're competing with each other. We've got hospitals competing with each other. We have competing doctors who write these prescriptions and who make the decision as to what medicine the patient is taking. They're competing with each other. There is only one industry in between, which does not compete, and it is pharmacies. Hospitals can compete with each other. Anyone can set up a hospital. That does not mean that there are no strict criteria. A hospital can only be set up if the conditions for the operation are met and this should not change in any way in relation to pharmacies. I am not going to pretend that the drugs are going to the grocery store. They would be sold under the same rules as only pharmacies today. However, the abolition of quantitative regulation will make it possible to make pharmacy operations more efficient, to bring prices down, and competition will force operators in all other sectors to step up their activities, to look at opening hours, to improve the service. If you look at what has happened in other countries, for example in Norway, which is far more expensive than Finland, Norwegians eat their medicines at 20% lower prices than Finns. Norway had a system similar to ours, it was released in 2001. Since then, the number of pharmacies has doubled, no small town has left the pharmacy, a new pharmacy has arrived in numerous small places. And I'm sure the Norwegians will also take care of medical safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u176	Mr President! Firstly, Mr Vartia: Yes, we will only have this debate, I am quite open to it, but I also believe that our pharmacy system should be fostered. So I consider our pharmacy system to be a low-threshold place that is part of the social welfare and health care service system. It is also prevention, it is a low-threshold place to go, and it must have regional coverage. As has already been discussed in this Chamber, there are customers who have to go a long way to get their medicines, and I do not want us to lose pharmacies in the countryside in the future. The reason for the debate is that there is no intended replacement medicine at the pharmacy. That I am not aware of, but no purpose in this matter could actually be considered good, almost could even be considered reprimandable, but as I said, this is what I am not aware of. Congressman Tolppanen, you brought up the medicine cabinets. They are, of course, subject to regulation, which is defined in the pharmaceutical law, which has the right and the right to keep in the medicine cabinet. Then there was the question of the fact that type one and type two diabetics are in a different position now with regard to these substitutions. Of course, it should be noted that he, who has insulin replacement therapy, needs it for a living, that is, it is an absolutely necessary part of his treatment. Then the point raised by Mrs Kiljunen, which is the core role of pharmacies and what can be sold in pharmacies, what kind of company activities are being carried out: yes, these things you have heard are certainly true and they have been prepared, but I do not have any more in-depth material here, but we can go back to that. And what's the question? Was there anyone who didn't answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u179	The debate will continue. — Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u180	Mr President! Now this is going to slip a little bit into other things, but on an important subject, that is, this pharmacy system. Firstly, I would like to say to Mr Vartia that when he compared Norway, the fact is that in Norway and Sweden international listed companies own these pharmacy systems: 83% of Norway owns foreign international listed companies. Sweden has 80%. And in Finland we have 600 individual companies, pharmacies that own this, and they cover the whole of Finland, only there was one small municipality, and then I think there was a small piece of head-up where there is no pharmacy. On average, each municipality has three competing pharmacies. So this competition works. And this has made it possible for us in Finland to have a comprehensive pharmacy operating in every municipality. And it works effectively. And then when we talk about this internal competition, the fact is that the pharmacy does not determine the price of these medicines, but it is determined by HILA. The same medicine is as expensive here in Helsinki and Lahti as it is in Lappeenranta. And in practice, HILA will determine the price of its medicine. The second point is, then, all these self-medicating medicines and the services that are there. And then if there is good service and there is self-care medication, then these pharmacies will also bring a lot of good returns to themselves. And it's worth developing, of course. And that is why I think it is absolutely essential that this pharmacy system be developed in conjunction with the social welfare system, because the pharmaceutical system is part of our health care system, part of our medical care. It cannot be decoupled from international listed companies. And even now we know that in Sweden this liberalisation has led to the flow of these pharmacy revenues abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u181	Mr President! As I said earlier in the speech, this opening-up of the pharmacy market is presented by THL researchers, presented by the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency, by the Director-General of Kela. They wouldn't do it if there was some sort of risk to medical care. Every pharmacy in Finland is profitable at the moment, there is no reason to fear that a profitable pharmacy would be closed even if you could open a pharmacy somewhere else. As regards the fact that we have one sector in which we prevent foreign operators from entering the market, but all other sectors are allowed to do so, there must be other criteria. This kind of protectionism is not part of today's international globalisation, where it is the international market economy that has brought us so much prosperity. But if it is considered to be a risk, the pharmacy market can also be opened in such a way that quantity regulation is abolished, but it is ensured that it still has to be owned by a Finnish individual who has received training from the pharmacist and not by anyone else. That, too, would be significant. A better step forward. What I want to say here... — I thought this was a two-minute speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u184	Congressman Vartia, I think he may have agreed that this was the last time this species has ever taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u185	Mr President! I think the Finnish pharmacy system is good and worth defending. Of course, the number of pharmacies can be considered and, of course, the way in which it is awarded to a pharmacy permit can be updated and a choice can be considered. However, in such a comparison of pharmacies — a stock exchange company or a pharmacy system — at least I myself am part of the fact that I prefer to know a wealthy Finnish pharmacist rather than the owner of a wealthy foreign stock exchange company, that even in my opinion there is nothing bad in Finland, that there are well-performing pharmacies. The issue of price regulation is a good thing in that it provides an equal, important medicine for all of us in due course. When we are all sick about something, I think it is good that prices are the same for prescribed medicines in Tuupovaara and Helsinki and Kokkola. It makes it equal for Finnish citizens that there should be nothing bad about it either. Of course, the number of pharmacies can be considered in terms of whether it is sufficient and whether the service will then be better if there is a pharmacy in every corner. It has been suggested that the more pharmacies there are, the service will improve, but there is also a limit in my opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u187	Mr President! I don't want to take a stand on the money from pharmacies right now. I do not think that the arrival of pharmacies should determine the system of our pharmacies, but we should consider that pharmacies are part of our social and health services, and that is the starting point. I think that how we begin to assess their income is a completely separate question. I must also say that pharmacies are also local services because people who use pharmacies are sick and their mobility can be difficult. The accessibility of a local pharmacy can be difficult for many, and that is why this role of pharmacies — it is not a market — is primarily a place to safeguard the health of these people. The second thing is, or the third thing, that we Finns are very happy with our pharmacy system. I just thought that according to the latest survey, 95% of pharmacies’ customers are satisfied with their latest pharmacy visit. 92 per cent of Finns consider the number of pharmacies sufficient. Seventy-seven per cent of Finns consider the opening hours of pharmacies sufficient. Here are examples of people who are happy with pharmacies, pharmacy services. It needs to be developed, the pharmacy network needs to be developed, then our pharmaceutical system needs to be developed, just as it is the theme of our day. In other words, our pharmaceutical system must be developed to ensure that it is fair to all citizens, that every person is guaranteed access to his medicine. This is, could you say, the whole thing we all have to hold on to?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u188	Mr President! I think it is a good thing that the price of medicines is the same, that the place of residence does not determine who has to pay for his headaches. But that is another matter, a moral question, whether it is right for a professional group to benefit from the illness of others and the headaches of others. That is the other side of the matter. And this is such a thing that this is certainly related to the development of the pharmacy system and also, in a way, to the opening of it. I think it is extremely important that in all pharmacies, however, there is a pharmacist who can replace the other, cheaper medicine where it is possible — for all medicines it is not possible, but for them what it is. But we could talk about whether all such drugs or drugs should really be on the pharmacy shelf. Does vitamin A cream have to be on the pharmacy shelf? Does black eye salvava — if you have played hockey sometimes — have to know what is black eye salvava: it is Trombosole — be on the shelf of a pharmacy, or could it be in a retail store? Would these be the means to reduce certain prices? That a little bit like thinking about what can be brought to the ordinary store and what can't. What I do know is that in Sweden, when there was a great deal of freeing up over-the-counter drugs, there were a lot of problems — because too many medicines were then consumed because they were easy to buy at the grocery store. But you have to think about what could be moved or what could be released because it would lower the other prices. And then the other thing is that I don't know now if it's worth buying those nail polishes from the pharmacy, even though they're so much cheaper in the supermarket.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u189	Mr President! This is precisely the case: certain products which do not necessarily belong to the pharmacy should be purchased from the market if that price is the determining factor. However, in the Finnish pharmacy system, I personally appreciate the good service and the expertise and what you can get from the staff other than that well-deserved pharmacist. The pharmacy is also a good employer for its own staff, and I think this too should be emphasised in this debate when we talk about the safety and amendment of the pharmaceutical law, as is the case with this government proposal. Personally, however, I think that there are some basic things in Finland that should be the same price for us, for the people of Helsinki and for the Kainuus, and I think that prescribed medicines are something that is not based. If you fall ill, it is reasonable for human medicines to pay us the same amount in different parts of Finland. I understand this ideological difference that is being discussed here with a colleague, but I personally support this current system and I welcome it, and this satisfaction survey of pharmacists' customers also shows that Finns do not consider the price of medicines to be excessive when it comes to needing it. Of course, there are situations where your income is so small that the price of medicines can be, but for us in this hall, for example, I do not think that medicines are too expensive in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u190	Mr President! This debate has, in fact, slightly shifted from this government's actual proposal to the pharmacy situation and the regulation of pharmacies, but of course it has to do with the pharmaceutical law and many of the points that refer to the government's proposal. I myself was thinking of taking a stand on this last debate and thanking the Minister for his commendable support for the current pharmacy system during this debate. To the representatives of Kiljunen and Pakkanen: I do understand this great market belief in many different things, but it may not work in everything, just basic food, food or medicine or energy. Of course, it is good that competition could be as open and even as possible, but at the end of such extreme premisses, it is nevertheless up to the government to ensure that people are always treated equally in all situations, regardless of their place of residence. Unfortunately, Mr Vartia, it now sounded a bit like you might not consider this issue of equality to be a matter for the Kainuu and Helsinki people to be entitled to medicines at the same price. In my opinion, perhaps we should learn from our southern neighbour, Estonia, who is a very agile country and has in many ways been very flexible in many aspects of entrepreneurship and investment. But in fact Estonia is coming a little on our lines in its pharmacy policies because they have not been satisfied with the pharmacy reform that was done there. Similarly, in Sweden, what is involved with the use of drugs in the hand shop: who is it who is watching that people do not buy those ridiculous quantities in the supermarkets and abuse them? So it's not a very good thing for the government either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u191	Congressman Vartia, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u192	Mr President! In Finland, food costs different amounts in different regions, energy costs different amounts in different regions, housing costs different amounts in different regions. If we want the prices of medicines to be forced into growth centres to the same level as they are in sparsely populated areas, then should the prices of the squares also be the same? If we turn the current fixed price only into a ceiling price, it will do no harm to those in whom prices do not fall if some other price falls — these people in the area that can then buy their medicines at a lower price will benefit from it. And the reason why it is important to open up this market is that the whole system becomes more efficient, allowing us to find those savings there. As far as these very high popularity rates at pharmacies are concerned, these surveys are usually made by the Association of Pharmacies and it is easy to ask the question in such a way that of course we are satisfied. But if the Finns were asked if you would like to have this option, many would already be much more inclined to say yes. Now that there was, for example, this survey — very unscientific, but nevertheless — in the Evening Sanomats, to which 26,000 people replied, and in its simplicity the question was'should the pharmacy market be opened up to competition'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u195	And now, Minister Mattila — the time you want to have on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u196	Mr President! In short, it is enough, but thank you for this lively debate. At first I thought that I would no longer speak, but on this pharmacy system I would like to say that, when we talk about different regions and diseases, these diseases are the same for people. We cannot choose, the Kainuu cannot choose which diseases he suffers from. In that sense too, I think that regional equality must be found, and of course there are alternatives. A good opposition is to challenge a good government, to tighten up on better performances. However, in this package, the pharmaceutical sector is committed to savings more than it would then target the user side, and I believe that this law is a savings package that is well-designed and carefully prepared. Of course, it is unfortunate to bring these cuts to the table as Minister, but what is the budget law, that is the budget law, we all know that. Then I would like to emphasise that Professor Ruskoaho's good report exists, it is worth reading, and that work will continue. As I said, I really hope that in the future, as part of the social welfare reform, we will have a rational medical treatment and, in that regard, a non-medicated treatment, which I believe can also be used to prevent diseases but also to facilitate them. But all the same, thank you for a good debate on both medicines and pharmacies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u197	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 7 October 2016. Now the debate continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u198	Mr President! When, on Friday, I was unable to take part in this debate on the bill to amend Sections 57 and 69 of the Electricity Market Act, I thought I would now use a few words. I think that this bill is quite a step in the right direction, and I think that this kind of change would be appropriate. There is a lot of talk about flexibility in the debate on the electricity market, and it would have to be made more flexible in terms of consumption and, in any case, that the consumer would then have the opportunity, in the form of this billing, to already receive the service that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy called for at that time in 2014, but unfortunately the electricity companies still do not offer consumers much choice over those time periods of electricity billing. These can be quite big things for many people on low incomes, if the electric bill is suddenly terribly large and must then be able to handle it at once. In this context, I think that this is also the subject of the debate which was a while ago and which related to this Caruna and its very large price increases. It would be very important now that the Competition and Consumer Authority has clarified and examined the issue of reasonableness. A few years ago, a decision was also made that, as a result of major storms, the electricity line in Savo and Central Finland had to start digging into the ground. But in areas where there is no such storm risk, for example in Northern Finland, where, in many places, trees do not even grow so high that they could disturb the lines, I do not think that those obligations can burden those regional northern companies to the same extent, because transfer prices are already very high. I would, however, like to see this issue of the electricity market taken forward and debated, and this regional equality being taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-11-ps-98.u199	Mr President! The amendment to the Electricity Market Act is probably timely and should be discussed in depth. How prices are determined, the electricity market works — at the moment, I think it works well. But in the actual electricity bill that comes home to the consumer, I would also see that at least there should be an alternative for the consumer to be able to choose an equal fee if it is better for his own financial situation, because it is known that transfer prices are constant. The price of consumer electricity itself varies so little, so it could very well work in such a way that the consumer pays the same amount of electricity bill each month, or whatever the billing frequency is. Then each year there will always be a compensatory invoice or credit bill, how the consumption varies.
