ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TAVM 18/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u2	Mr President! So here is the report from the banking council. I looked at that report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and there are many good observations there. One thing I would like to say at the outset: it has been quite timely and important for the committee to draw attention to this particular situation in the Financial Supervisory Authority, its ability to carry out a supervisory function and its need for resources, and I think this is very relevant. But, President-in-Office, more generally, when we talk about the economy and its prospects for development, a rather recent matter is, of course, the state budget proposal that has been distributed here today. Of course, here, the Bank of Finland, for example, is currently buying Finnish bonds — the word 'debt', of course. In other words, the state, Finland, is in debt all the time, and we have shared a great deal of concern about this here in Parliament. And as I now began to look at this book, of course, the surprise has been great when the government has long spoken that debt should now be broken, for example, many painful savings, cuts in unemployment security and cuts from pensioners and families with children, in the name of getting the debt under control. But, no matter how much, more debt is going to be taken, next year EUR 5.5 billion, and that is not the end of it. At the same time, however, the government has been able to afford tax proposals that favour high incomes: a reduction in the taxation of millions of inheritances, a reduction in forest gifts. Yes, the question arises as to whether Finland is still in debt, so that it can afford to make value choices that share this common good mainly with friends close to the government, interests. We've been asking a lot of questions about this friend capitalism. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Well, if you wish to be represented, you will be invited to the speaking room. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u5	Mr President! Mr Viitanen raised an important issue. Surely the common concern is this debt, and as was seen from this situation in the Bank of Finland, it is there — whether it is worth EUR 15 billion — to say, as it were, this sovereign debt risk. Of course, the state needs funding, but of course this raises the question when, in the last year or so, the word most used in this Chamber is 'debt'. When two weeks’ lunch money has been taken away from students or when child allowances or pensions are cut, it is always justified that Finland’s debt should be brought to a halt. Yes, it is a big surprise now that this budget book considers that this year we will be taking on more debt than in the last year of the previous government, next year we will be taking on even more debt than 2015 and even 2018: even the deficit is higher than what was the last budget of the Ringe. After all, we have had this debt clock on the table several times in this sitting. I would have liked to ask the government parties, especially the assembly, whether you have an estimate that, when this debt continues to continue at such a high level, what do you think will be added to this debt clock during this period, to the cake of the pool.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u6	Mr President! Mr Viitanen updated the debt, and it is good that measures are now needed on the left side of the Chamber. In March, the Social Democrats were still prepared to save between EUR 2 billion and EUR 3 billion and promised that they would become concrete proposals and that they would be made in the first place during the parliamentary term. Unfortunately, such measures have not been put forward by the Social Democrats since the elections. Fortunately, measures have now been taken with the people of Finland, the city centre and the National Coalition Party in the government, and the economy has already been brought to a slight growth rate right after the first year. It is, of course, so subtle that further measures are needed. But it was positive that, for example, the Business Barometer reported that business confidence and atmosphere have improved and many feel that they have better opportunities for employment this year and next year. Personally, I welcome the fact that, for example, labour taxation is being reduced and it is now being done precisely so that it comes to every Finnish worker who is working — able to strengthen the purchasing power of a small amount — and that this tax reduction is also being made for every Finnish pensioner. That, too, is an important, good thing next year. Payment-based VAT, entrepreneurial deduction and so on will also contribute to the growth and employment of this country. Let us hope that this escalating little economic growth turn, which has now been achieved, will be strengthened in the course of next year and we will be able to move forward from this difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u7	And the debate on the bank council's report continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u8	Mr President! Of course, this report by the Banking Council gives us the opportunity to have a broader debate, and the SDP seems to want to warm up next week's debates on the state budget here on Friday afternoon, and that is all right, of course, there is nothing important about it, and it is about the country's economy, which, of course, has an impact on everything. There's something about what you've been saying, and it's like you're going into debt and you're going into debt and you're going into debt. There is something like that in your speech, especially when I listened to that opening of Mr Viitanen. That is not the case. The debt will be lower next year than this year — less than this year —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u11	Mr President! Yes, the opposition record is raging — the opposition record is raging. The same things that have been on the surface of the year revolve, as it were, day after day, and as it were, panic is raised. Fortunately, the government is working, as is the Bank of Finland, the whole ECB system, to boost the European and Finnish economy. I therefore have a question for you — who wants to answer the opposition? — Mr Lindtman or Mr Rinne or anyone else: Why has the SDP not acted in accordance with its own shadow budget, i.e. by submitting to the Bank of Finland the amount of revenue you have wanted to write here in your shadow budget? Why have you not put it there that the Bank of Finland should give it to the State? I think that would also be an honest measure, not that Mr Lindtman would be happy to say here that you have balanced the budget with a lower debt. Of course, the government will have to contend with how the Finnish consumer demand will be maintained in the long term. But in this respect, at least I see that now, not to mention the shadow budget, there has been no confrontation between deeds and words.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, as long as this is a good debate with a maximum of 2 minutes, I will not intervene to give some 1 minute answers. I'll hold on to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u13	Mr President! The report by the Banking Council shows that the European System of Central Banks has had to pursue a monetary and interest rate policy that has been very active and that extraordinary measures have been taken. This is partly due to the fact that euro area Member States have not been able to achieve structural reforms, reforms that could contribute to employment, activity and entrepreneurship. Today I watched — when it comes to taxation — Tax curve presented by the President and CEO of the Central Union of Taxpayers for the last five years. Unfortunately, in the last parliamentary term, structural reforms were not possible, but taxation was significantly tightened. It was not possible to save money, taxation was tightened, and unfortunately it is a very negative phenomenon for the development of the Finnish economy, particularly the tightening of labour taxation. Here again, it is a question of our ability in Finland — even in Finland — to continue with structural reforms that will enable us to promote employment and entrepreneurship and bring about the economic growth that we will then be able to achieve in these times of relatively slow economic growth in the world, which will make it easier for us to balance public finances. As Mr Kaikkonen said, there are positive signs, especially in the maritime industry, and there are investments in the SME sector. We must now step up this development and, in the course of this debate on the banking council, Mr President, we must now look forward to what we can do for the well-being of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u14	Mr President! Mr Viitanen is concerned about the state debt, and so was Mr Rinne before the parliamentary elections. In fact, when Mr Rinne presented the SDP's objectives for this parliamentary term, he spoke of the need to adapt EUR 4 billion and said that the SDP was ready for expenditure cuts of EUR 2.6 billion. Well, that is what we are waiting for, your proposals, your views, from which you will take the $2,600 million per year. When you tell us this, we could then compare how well you find savings that are less harmful, less unpleasant than the savings that the government is forced to make, for example, in terms of education. This is the same challenge I am presenting, and I have also presented many times to the Greens. The working line of the Coalition Party is strongly reflected in the work of the Government. Many actions have been taken to promote employment and growth, more decisions were taken in the budget debate. One decision that has been overlooked was the decision to set up a working group of officials to promote the dismantling of the incentives traps, and this work is to be examined at the latest in the mid-term debate. As has been reported here by representatives such as Kaikkonen and Heinonen, there are many positive signs in the Finnish economy: employment has slightly improved, and expectations in the SME sector, for example, are brighter. However, I would like to stress to everyone that the measures that have been taken do not seem to achieve the central employment rate target of the government and therefore:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u15	Mr President! I'm trying to find a connection here to the operations of the Central Bank and the bank council report. The central banking system is responsible for monetary policy and is relatively cautious about taking a position on economic policy, but insofar as macro-economic positions are taken, it recommends that public deficits should be pushed down, not by a one-off rush, but gradually, in order to ensure the functioning of the market, consumer demand. That is why I do not think that we should look at individual years now either at the beginning of this term of government, whether the annual deficit rises or falls. It is influenced by factors such as large income tax reductions or large investments in infrastructure that are now being made in the early period, which are justified in time, because now growth needs to be stimulated and recovery measures set in motion. We must count on what the draft budget shows that in the coming years these decisions will lead to a reduction in the deficit, and I believe that this will happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u16	Mr President! A lot of questions have been asked here, but perhaps in this alternative budget of the SDP that is the key answer. Here is our equation, which takes less debt than the government takes, which makes tax decisions in a fairer way, expands the tax base so that even the more well-off would participate in the recession and avoid the most brutal cuts that the government is now doing for families with children, students, pensioners, the unemployed, the small ones. This is a fairer, more employment-friendly option, and the big difference between the government's economic policy here is that there are also clear proposals here to improve employment, which, by the way, President, I still find very little in this budget book. After all, the government has been waiting here for more than a year without real employment measures by simply blindly believing in a competitiveness pact and under the guise of a certain kind of wage-earning spirit that existed in these coercive stages of this process, and at the same time wasted time. But as far as this debt is concerned, it seems a little awkward, of course, that this government, too, may have slightly altered these estimates of debt just by looking at the timing of sales income or the nature of tax revenue estimates, and this is a gimmick. But the cruel fact that you cannot get rid of is that more debt is being taken over compared to what was taken at the end of the last regime, and it is in complete contradiction with all your big communications and your own words, where you are constantly concerned about debt and under the guise of these brutal cuts. But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, would you perhaps think of changing the tax line, for example, to be fairer? On that too, we have our own option in the SDP, and I do not think that, Mr President, we will continue this debate this time... [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : The representative may move to the speaking room. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u22	Mr President! Mr. Viitanen, that's not a $2.6 billion savings in your alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u25	I would ask the speaker to move on to the podium if he intends to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u26	Mr President! This is now a response, if you will allow me, to Mrs Heinose. So, Mr Heinonen, I think that next week you will no longer be surprised at this criticism. You now have the weekend to get to know these tax proposals from this government very carefully. I am a little afraid that it is now going to be the case that, when, for example, you did an unfair act on the taxation of pensioners this year, you were discriminating against the taxation of the pensioner and the employee, this tax gap remains and in some respects even increases, quite the opposite of what you have said. I hope that we can honestly discuss these matters at a better time next week, but this is now for such a small memory that the sun seemed to shine hard,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u27	And now it's been a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-16-ps-85.u28	Mr President! The report by the Banking Council highlights the problems of central bank financing at the moment. Perhaps a saying that 'the string is hard to push' would at present describe this European monetary policy and, on the other hand, also the problems of economic policy. Indeed, today the central bank has negative interest rates, i.e. banks are paying for lying down their money there, and it seems that the availability of a bank loan, the availability of money, is not so much the problem in the European market, but that simply demand is not available for transport and there are no profitable investment targets, and that is why such very radical means, even helicopter funding, have been proposed as a solution. Perhaps that is how much I would like to say to this indebtedness debate that the previous government was called the worst government of all time. However, we must remember that the previous government halved the debt burden of the previous government. Now that you look at the economic policy line of this government, we will only be in the same situation as the previous government ended in 2019. In this respect, there is reason to be real concern about this debt. Debt accelerated immediately in the first year of the Board of Directors, 2016. Surely we too in the opposition have an understanding that this is what the situation is. On the other hand, however, it is wrong to give the wrong impressions that drastic cuts and decisions are being made when, in reality, this rate of debt is extremely worrying. And I must remind you that the previous government increased basic security by EUR 100 and this current cuts. So we have to look at where the money is then allocated. Debt is the common concern of all of us, and I believe,
