ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u2	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u3	Mr President! This week there was a meeting chaired by the President of the Republic, in which the party chairmen were widely present. This meeting concluded that Finland's foreign and security policy is changed not by exercises, but by political decisions. Maintaining and developing the performance of the Defence Forces requires active training with different partners. There are just under 90 such exercises this year. During the past few weeks, there has been a lively discussion about the training activities. Yesterday, the Presidents discussed foreign and security policy under the leadership of the President of the Republic. In a good-spirited and serious debate, issues emerged which, if implemented, will create the conditions for good cooperation in the future and for a stable, shared foreign and security policy content. I ask you, Prime Minister, how and on what timetable does the government intend to take forward the ideas of development created by yesterday's good-spirited debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u4	Mr President! First of all, it is extremely important for the government that this kind of national unity of interest in foreign and security policy issues remains at the heart of our debate. Of course we can and must be able to discuss it, sometimes with great enthusiasm, but the fact that there has been consensus and unity in the background is a value that we will cherish and want to cherish. In this discussion in Mäntyniemi, we raised the change that the government will bring to the evaluation criteria for these exercises. We bring it in very quickly, not only as a basis for TP-UTVA's handling, but also as a basis for parliamentary processing. It is true that there are dozens of exercises, even close to 100 can be in a year, and there may be some practice to rise when the content of the exercise later becomes clear, one that should be dealt with even more closely before the exercise is carried out. This is something I promise to change, and it will also be reflected in Parliament's access to information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u5	I would now ask those representatives who want a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u6	Mr President! Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. The terrorist acts that struck France in November last year, which have shocked the whole world, have created a new foreign and security policy situation in Europe. For the first time in the history of the Union, France has requested assistance from the Member States of the European Union in accordance with the assistance clause laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon. Finland has announced its readiness to provide such assistance. In such an exceptional and new situation, which is facing us for the first time, it is important for the government to have a Parliament that is as unitedly aware of the situation as possible, and which is aware of its policy. This presupposes that Parliament as a whole has the opportunity to discuss the matter. Prime Minister, as Mr Heinäluoma has pointed out on several occasions here, I ask you: are you going to bring the matter relating to the French request for assistance to Parliament for debate, for example, as a statement by the Prime Minister or even as a communication?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u7	Mr President! This issue is in preparation and Finland has responded positively to France's request. We have three things to take forward. One is training in Erbil in Iraq, the other is continuing UNIFIL in Lebanon, perhaps expanding it, and the third is already in place, i.e. The military has been giving flying lessons to transport equipment. Participation in crisis management is currently being prepared and will require a process of reporting in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act, and this will provide an appropriate opportunity for a wider debate on this issue. I believe that this is also the best way for Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u8	Mr President! This is an important issue and the matter is in preparation, which means that Finland has consistently emphasised the political and fundamental importance of the aid clause. It is also a matter of solidarity between European countries. It is well-founded that now that this is being activated for the first time, these matters will be thoroughly clarified. In this situation, it makes sense to bring a report. We will then have a very good opportunity to discuss these issues extensively. This is extremely important and, at the same time, it is also a response to the French request for assistance, but the United States has also presented its request for assistance. All these requests can then be answered at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u9	Mr. Speaker! This debate over the last few weeks has shown the need for international training, and it is particularly good that it has increased with Sweden, and that is something that everyone supports, and that is a very important line. But it has also appeared that this kind of political reflection and evaluation has failed, not with regard to the outcome, but with regard to the methods. It is good that the President and the Government of the Republic are now reforming these procedures and order of business, and we will certainly have our full support for that. Similarly, it is good that we were given the opportunity to discuss and review these wide-ranging security challenges and Finland's involvement in crisis management when a new global strategy is also being prepared in the EU. But it would be important to consider not only military participation in this context, but also other instruments, civilian crisis management and development cooperation, which coordination and sharing should be the special strength and contribution of a country such as Finland to international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u10	Mr President! Overall safety is important. It also involves crisis management, international exercises, development cooperation, multilateral cooperation within the EU, the UN, international organisations and civil society. But when you talk about this exercise, it is worth separating these military exercises and then this so-called CMX, which has been on display a lot. Last year, 3.3. The government announced this CMX through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and at that time the partner countries were Finland, Sweden, Australia, Japan and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u11	Mr President! In this military exercise, there are two things that are unfortunately involved: information on this issue and substance itself, which is linked to these exercises. The total failure of this communication caused quite a lot of the commotion that followed. I have now noted with satisfaction — and I have pointed out this many times — that the government has now become a clear announcement that this information policy will become a clear new sablu and a new system. This is absolutely necessary. It cannot be that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence is aware of these issues in the press. It is very important that this now becomes a change, a new system and a sablu. Secondly, perhaps, as far as this common foreign and security policy of the European Union is concerned, there may be some big things going on next summer if the Brexis take place. In this context, we need to reconsider what the content of this is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u12	Mr President! That is absolutely true of what the Vice-President of the committee, Mr Salolainen, said. I know from my own experience that, after four years as President of the UaV, there has always been room for improvement in these processes, and so it is now. Now, of course, in connection with this process, I have already been to the Committee on Foreign Affairs twice, but it is good for us to go through the great Chamber and see that this run is improved because it is in the interests of all of us. This situation that there is some confusion about our approach is a bad situation for the country, and that should not be the case. I do believe that quite a few of us have been clear, but many are not, and that is why we need to improve here. Vice-President Salolainen spoke about this Brexit. It will also have very important foreign and security policy consequences if this is to happen and must be taken seriously. Britain is an extremely large military power in terms of performance, diplomatic capacity and foreign and security policy participation. Although its main line is NATO, it is also very important in the European context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u13	Mr President! In recent years a new term has been introduced for Finland's foreign policy, and it is this 'active stability policy'. Finland and Sweden together in the Baltic Sea region can be a stabilising factor, and confidence in the continuity of the policies of the two countries is an important factor in this. In connection with this military exercise debate, there has also been talk of military non-alignment. After all, our line has included credible self-defence, partnership and also non-military cooperation. Mr Prime Minister, can the public trust that the government you run will maintain that Finland will remain outside the military alliances and pursue this active stability policy in its entirety?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u14	Mr President! This is easy to answer. When you read the government program, you stick to the government program in this matter as well. I can assure you of that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u15	And the Secretary of State wants to add.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u16	Thank you, Mr President. — Mr Heinäluoma, I am pleased to say that this morning I have discussed these issues with the President of the Swedish Parliament, Mr Urban Ahlin — a Social Democrat — and we have come to an understanding that this cooperation between Finland and Sweden is mutually beneficial, it is politically balanced, it is between non-military countries. This is exactly the line we should be taking, and I believe that this will have huge support in Finland and also in Sweden. This delegation also had parliamentarians from all the Swedish parliamentary parties, and they confirmed this same thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u17	Mr President! It is very important that the Heads of State have one message from these military exercises — this was not the starting point, the message has now been clearly clarified and it is a good thing — and that Parliament also receives up-to-date information about these. But my question would have been related to this Nordic cooperation and its borders. We have indeed had Urban Ahlin here today as a guest with his delegation, and foreign, defence and security policy has been in the debate. I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister about the Government's vision of this Nordic cooperation in these sectors. There is much talk now of cooperation in security and defence policy. How does the government see closer cooperation with Sweden in the field of foreign policy? What more can be done than what is being done today on these issues with Sweden? And is there some limits that cannot be crossed in cooperation with Sweden? How does the Prime Minister see?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u18	Mr President! With Sweden in particular, we have an ongoing dialogue not only on the deepening of defence cooperation but also on other foreign and security policy issues. For example, we support the Swedish Security Council's application for membership and its intention. We have also found each other well when we talk about crisis management issues and when we talk about the root causes of immigration. Of these, we have an ongoing discussion not only with Sweden but also with the other Nordic countries. For example, on these border issues, which are not really related to this, we must also be prepared for situations where, if the European Union is unable to resolve these issues, we will be able to ensure this free movement within the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u19	Mr President! The government's announcement that it will improve information in the direction of Parliament is of course very positive and will also make it possible to seek consensus on these important issues, sometimes difficult ones. It was also gratifying to hear the Prime Minister's assurance that exercises — or anything else — are not changing Finland's foreign policy line, this active stability policy line, as it has recently been called. Now this training group, now directed to Finland in this spring, takes place with the Finns: Rissala Air Force, Arrow — Ground Forces here in Southern Finland — and then Baltops in the Gulf of Finland. Of course, this is quite significant, quite historical, and positive for our training activities. My question is — there is no Minister of Defence here, Niinistö, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs can probably answer: when you compare Sweden in this survey with Finland or vice versa, do you see any difference between these two neighbours?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u20	Mr President! Finland and Sweden are both involved in several joint exercises, as we were together with NATO countries in that CMX exercise last year, but from Finland’s starting point as a partner – not with Article 5 or otherwise. Sweden and I are in many joint exercises. There's a rehearsal in Norway in the near future. We also share in it together, and this is being done in a continuous way. Then there is the transatlantic relationship at all. That's what we both have to deal with separately and together. It was not very long ago when President Obama visited Stockholm and all the presidents were there. This is a very wide-ranging cooperation in foreign and security policy. Even in the fight against terrorism, cybercrime and hybrid war, this really is
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u21	Mr. Speaker! It is all right that these exercises with the United States, or all of them combined, have come to the public and are being discussed, but I would be even more concerned with what is actually being done than with how it is being communicated. Of course it is worrying if the government considered that this was nothing special, even in such a tight, tense, diplomatic situation, that the government felt it was quite normal for American troops to come to Finland to train. That is what worries me, and more generally: is it the case that the government has now allowed foreign diplomacy to take full advantage of the Defence Minister? Where is our traditional foreign diplomacy, building peace,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u22	Mr President! That is a good question. We need more Defence Forces training because we have fewer of these crisis management operations. This is one of the reasons why we are condensing the training. There are two types of exercises. Others are, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, such types of map training with a foreign and security policy dimension. We have a certain role to play in these map exercises. But when it is done with equipment, what is visible to the people and gets a lot of publicity is the purpose of maintaining a purely defensive capacity. There are dozens of these exercises in a year, they are done between different partners, between different countries, and they always go from a purely Finnish defence capability point of view, and they practice military skills from the perspective of the Finnish Defence Forces. But there are always foreign and security policy aspects for all things, and that is why this criterion is being met.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u23	Herr Talman! Mr. Speaker! A very good debate today, and for some reason we have had such a habit in this country that we talk more about processes than about the matter. In that sense, Mr Lapintie's speech was a good one. There may be two opinions as to whether this training is good or not. Instead, we have both the practice in Iceland and the practice in Ämar and we have now been discussing processes in this debate: who has invited and who has not and who has not found out and where. In some ways it is not possible to discuss the issue itself, and it is therefore very important that the government actually improves these practices so that, if necessary, we can then discuss it. As far as this exercise is concerned, I personally feel that it is very important and it develops our defence capabilities, but so does this crisis management work. I would have asked you, Mr Prime Minister, when you said here that, with regard to the French request for assistance, it is now your intention to increase the presence in the crisis management field, and at the same time you said again just now that less resources are available for crisis management: how is this equation going?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u24	And if the Prime Minister would answer now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u25	Mr President! There have now been fewer crisis management operations and this has meant that the need for training has increased. This was my message. These exercises have always sparked public debate. It is not a matter for this government, but – the former Minister of Defence remembers very well – these were also discussed during the last period, and as a learner of this, we now want to improve this process which has been going on over the years. As part of this French request for assistance, we are going to increase the size of the Lebanese mission. No final decisions have yet been taken on this, and the Foreign Minister mentioned Erbil's training operation in Iraq. These go with normal budgetary resources, and then the necessary money will be found. Very large sums of money in these
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u26	Mr President! Of course, a responsible foreign and security policy for a country such as the Finnish people is vital, especially now that the international situation is becoming increasingly restless. We certainly have a consensus here in the Chamber that this kind of thing does not involve party politics, and of course no one wants to make it difficult or prevent exercises that are considered to be in Finland's national interest. In that regard, such noises are unfortunate that they can cause difficulties for the future of these exercises. But has this now going on or last week’s fuss been necessary and justified? I would like to ask the minister concerned what you think has actually been discussed here, just as we are discussing here in the Chamber. So what has changed, what has changed in Finnish policy or policy? What has changed with regard to exercises from the previous parliamentary term or from the previous government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u27	Mr President! It must be clearly stated that all these exercises are based on Finland's foreign and security policy guidelines and the exercises do not change these guidelines. Finland then participates as a NATO partner country from its own perspective. Of course, these issues will be brought to the public debate because it is very important: Finland can only have one foreign and security policy, that is, the Finnish line, and of course it will be formed in one parliament, and the government will implement it in accordance with its programme, which means that we must have a consensus here. I know this well. When I was chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when I was a representative of the opposition at the time, all the activities aimed at achieving consensus, taking unanimous decisions, making unanimous reports
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u28	All right, I will give the questions to Mr Östman and Mr Mustajärvi, and then, if the first questioner wishes, he will have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u29	Mr President! Proper information at the right time is always the key when it comes to serious matters. In public, however, the government's top ministers have made various statements in relation to these military exercises as regards Finland's foreign and security policy. Since the government's messages have been open to interpretation, it was good that the President of the Republic was in public to clarify the confusion that came from the government's direction. Having heard the President’s clarification, I recognized what I had thought about the situation: the exercise does not include as much drama as the public statements could have concluded. My question is: how is it possible for the government's leading ministers to give different opinions and answers on these important issues, and should the government be more specific about its communication strategy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u30	Who's in charge of the government? - Either way. Well, let's take the prime minister first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u31	Mr President! I am not signing right now that this is a confused government communication, which is what it is about. There are also two issues that I have explained several times in this debate: one is an exercise with foreign and security policy objectives and starting points, and the other is the exercises that leave the defence capability. These exercises, which are spectacular and visible and where equipment and iron are in the air and on the ground, depending on the exercises, are always a source of debate — have been a wake-up call during this parliamentary term, have also been a wake-up call in the last term. But it is clear that there has been no change in the Government's foreign and security policy, it has been clear all along, and against it we are assessing both the exercise and then these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u32	Mr President! It is still unclear at what stage the preparations for the Oregon fleet visit were made for foreign policy considerations and, if not, the situation is quite worrying. However, the fact that the President of the Republic gave the government a reminder shows that this debate has not been in vain. But as far as this Treaty of Lisbon and the aid clause are concerned, it is certainly the case that, when national legislation is amended, it is remembered that it is always a bilateral process and that Finland always has its own discretion as to what form and content of aid does not happen, for example because of the pressure from other countries in the European Union, that Finland would give up its national reflection when so many parties have now given up their EU criticism?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u33	Mr President! To avoid oblivion, so your party has also participated in government activities when such CMX exercises have been taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u36	And the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u37	Mr President! Still a representative of Mustajärvi's question: This is a bilateral process, i.e. when this kind of aid-giving request is triggered, so it is clear that it is a bilateral process. So was the case in this case, and everyone to whom the request for help was addressed has responded positively to it. This is very important that we now have an in-depth debate on this when it was first activated. Finland has always considered this important, both politically and in terms of security policy, and now that it has been launched for the first time, it is good to have a debate now on how other countries functioned and what it affected us here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u38	Representative Judgments rose so demandingly just now that I have to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u39	Thank you, Mr President. — When the Minister: Soini has referred to these CMX exercises a couple of times, so 2015, a year ago, in the press release, it was stated that "the exercise is going through a situation in which a crisis develops between two imaginary states located far away from the area of NATO, which has implications for the humanitarian situation and maritime security". Now I would just like to ask: is it the case that, in the future, there will be no Article 5 for participation in the CMX, or that the host country agreement with NATO will be applied in such an exercise?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u40	Mr President! These exercises have been taking place in 2005, 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012 and the year 2015 you have just mentioned — it may be that it will be in the future. They are likely to have different indications, scenarios. This is very interesting, though. I am very much in favour of all these arrangements being reviewed and what has been practiced and at what time, but the main thing is that they have been rehearsed. But of course Finland always participates in the exercises only as a partner country, that is our line, only as a partner country. We are not within Article 5 and security guarantees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u41	I promised Mr Rinne I'd speak, but... I think I'll keep my promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u42	Thank you, Mr President. — I very much appreciate this constructive and good-spirited debate. From Mäntyniemi to the Parliament Hall. It was particularly pleasing in this debate that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the entire government, said that military non-alignment was the government's line. It is a very important message from this debate. I would also like to say that I believe that there is also an important dimension to this debate – which has become clear in this debate on foreign and security policy for a couple of weeks – that changes in the foreign and security policy are being made here, in this Chamber, by Parliament, not on any military office table, here specifically or in connection with any exercise. I would like to thank you, Prime Minister, for this good debate here in Question Time, and at the same time I would like to ask a more specific question: when are you going to bring this report to the House?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u43	Mr President! Thank you for your thanks. I will specify that Finland is a non-military country and so we have included it in the Government Programme. When will this report be brought to Parliament? When it's ready. There are still decisions to be made. When all the necessary decisions are made and the report is complete, it comes to Parliament. It does not yet have a timetable that I can promise, but it comes on a fast schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u44	We shall now move on to the next question. Congressman Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u45	Mr President! A number of ministers promised not to cut out of education before the elections. As we all know, they have failed this promise and cut huge sums of money from the future of Finland, or education, and now the students are waiting with horror for what is happening to the student aid: the government is cutting the student grant a quarter. I'm going to press for a quarter. The student allowance for those starting their studies this year is about EUR 540 per month gross, and this is not enough to live now. According to a recent report by Kela, one in six students is already using the student grant and housing allowance as a whole for housing. I would like to remind you that students must also eat. You can't cut a quarter of the student support without the surgery making your students' lives too difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u46	Mr President! This government has set itself the goal of stopping Finland's debt. It is a goal that the government in which the Greens were involved was unable to achieve, and it is also a matter of stopping debt, which is particularly important for young generations, because they are the ones who will then pay that debt if we take it on their tabs. During the Government Programme negotiations, the Centre Party, the Finns Party and the National Coalition Party agreed on a Government Programme with a reduction of EUR 4 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u49	Now I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u50	Mr President! It is clear that it is not possible to carry out such a major operation in a fair way. On the basis of publicly available information, there is reason to be concern that students are being driven towards forced loan. In other words, instead of adequate student support, students are forced to live as a debt. A student graduating in the target period who finances his or her entire studies with a student loan will already raise EUR 18,000 at the end of his or her studies, i.e. nearly EUR 20000. This is a frightening amount of loans when uncertain labour markets do not guarantee future income. So education may become the privilege of rich children. So the government is continuing its plan to scrape the welfare state. Moreover, this would mean that the best experts would not necessarily apply to higher education institutions, but those who could afford to do so. The government is constantly intimidating with government debt. Let me ask you something.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u51	Mr President! I do not think it is very good that young generations are being intimidated in this Chamber by their future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that we stay within the limits of 1 minute as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u53	Mr President! I was the minister responsible for study aid last season. In that case, the student allowance was not cut,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u56	Mr President! Indeed, before the elections, we estimated that cutting the indexes would be enough not to have to interfere with the level. Now it's different. The situation in Finland's economy is much worse than we estimated before the elections. This cut of 70 million is extremely difficult, as the Minister for Education has just said, but from the point of view of the overgeneration of young generations in particular, it is extremely important to put an end to this trend in debt. Now that the matter is being prepared, of course, a careful way is being prepared to ensure that, by increasing the amount of the loan and the state guarantee in loans, the student is able to guarantee his or her life during his or her studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u57	Mr President! I have to start by asking the Minister for Education: is it true that the state cannot be in debt, but the students can be in debt? That's quite a principle from you. Unfortunately, each of us knows and remembers from a fresh memory what kind of training cuts have been made here, how massive, how large. They will leave long-term effects. Well, we are already undermining the income of students, which is already very weak. Many students are already living on the poverty line, and I am sure the Minister of Education knows this very well. For a long time, there has been a desire to carry out a comprehensive reform of student support. Is this the massive reform that you are bringing to us to give students peace of study? Will this get students to study full-time, quickly graduate, as you also have the goal in the Government Programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u58	Mr President! The current student support system, which Mr Arhinmäki has spoken about here, is not particularly effective, nor is it today. It is rigid and bureaucratic, and it does not encourage rapid graduation, and it does not actually make it possible to combine study and work. In other words, there would be a great deal of room for development in the student support system, and that is precisely why we need to look carefully at the model chosen. It may be that since these cuts are now being made for the years to come, we would also have to build a path that looks further. And that is why I have suggested that the government consider whether, as one of the target groups, students could, for example, be included in the basic income experiment planned by the government. It could provide a good direction for long-term development of study support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u59	Mr President! The promise of education and the fact that every young person has equal access to good education based on their talent, enthusiasm, skills in this country is at the heart of the welfare state. Mr President! I am perplexed that the Minister of Education sounds mainly enthusiastic that he will be able to cut student support and those who are concerned that a quarter will be cut out of the student's income,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u60	Now the Prime Minister answers, the question is clear. The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u61	Mr President! I do not agree that the Minister of Education enthusiastically introduced this unfortunate operation which he is going to have to carry out. This is exactly the kind of words he used, as I recall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u64	The Minister of Education wishes to reply very briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u65	Mr President! Mr Niinistö, I find what you have just said very insulting. We know each other well, and you know how I feel about the importance of education and how important it is that everyone in Finland, regardless of background, has the opportunity to train and move forward in life. I personally believe that in the future, the state must continue to invest heavily in education and also financially support students in their studies. That is why we need to focus on building a welfare society that will enable us to rise from all backgrounds. This requires that we invest in the pedagogy of, for example, early childhood education and basic education and that we withdraw from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u66	Mr President! I think the government should be humble in the face of you cutting off the lowest-income people in this country and at the same time you say that this can be, as it sounds in the Minister of Education's speech, an opportunity to create even a better system. You will cut a quarter of their income, as the housing allowance and study grant are already lower for many students than their housing costs. I would like to point out that international studies — the knowledge-based decision-making that decisions should be based on — show that there is an increase in the inheritance of education if the income conditions of students are reduced. This is the great choice that Finland faces. In Eastern and Northern Finland, for example, learning outcomes are already weaker in many schools, especially boys' success is weaker, and if this student money is weakened, the chances of young people from low income backgrounds getting into higher education will be reduced, and this is a value choice that I cannot accept. I will continue to ask the Prime Minister when, at the time, you defended the student loan for yourself during your studies, that it was a good model: do you now think that student money is not important for equality?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u68	Mr President! Of course, I am not defending that student loan and I certainly think it is important that the study support component remains here. This is precisely why we want to hold on to it with claws and do what can be done under these conditions. But I would like to use this, when I told you about my own example, to encourage the fact that you can also take out a little loan as an investment in your profession, and when you have free education in Finland, you will enjoy it and encourage young people and not intimidate them by somehow ending this path of education. I certainly do not want to justify this difficult operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u69	Mr President! Mr Niinistö, the government is humble in the face of our poor economic situation. The government is humble in the face of the fact that we have doubled our debts over the past six years. The government is humble in the face of the fact that we have an unemployment rate of over 9. The government is humble in the face of every operation that we are currently faced with. We are working to reform Finland and to reverse the situation. I am also humble and grateful in the face of the fact that I myself have once enjoyed student support. We understand its significance, but the difficulty of this surgery is not this type of debate,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u70	Chairman of the Education Committee, represented by Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u71	Mr President! This is, of course, a tough place for all of us, as no one here has denied it. Perhaps it would be worth putting a little ice in the hat now, however, that Uusitalo is apparently about to give its own report here in the near future, after which the government will make its own preparations, after which the matter will be brought to Parliament, apparently only in the autumn. So, in that sense, it may not yet be quite a good idea to wake up huge waves around this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u74	Mr President! Indeed next week, just as the chairman of the Committee on Culture said, the rapporteur will give his report, and then this model will be developed. I think that, as I said in my previous speech, we should look for different ways in which we can create a positive vision and direction for development also for student support. This participation in the basic income experiment could be one of those ways, and the second thing we have been thinking about in the ministry for a long time is whether students could move to the general housing allowance, and I think it is certainly worth considering. On the side of the general housing allowance, it would be those students whose housing costs are high, especially in large cities and capital regions, who would benefit from this, and I think it is very much worth considering.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u75	Congressman Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u81	Mr President! There has been a great deal of reference to the information studied here, and I myself would like to see more decisions being taken here on the basis of the information that has been studied, because, up to now, long experience may indicate that, in many cases, student aid has been developed with a feeling and a system has been created which, at the moment, does not work optimally. That is why I asked Professor Scrooge Uusitalo to provide a knowledge base, make an international comparison, collect research data. With his expertise, his expertise, as President of the Economic Assessment Council, he will certainly be able to provide us with income perspectives and perspectives on the basis of which decisions can be taken. Are we committed to implementing the Scrooge Uusitalo model? No, we're not. Of course, we have commissioned a report from him and we will see its outcome, and then it is time for political decision-making, but I believe that we should:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u82	And the vice-chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mr Lauslahti.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u83	Mr President! I have just seen that in the next stage there will be a place for discussion and then a time for conclusions. It is clear that the student support system has been very tempting for the past few years, and it is time to find a permanent solution in this regard. If we go to see what it's like to be born in Finland and get to study, you can say that a Finnish child is privileged: we have free education, we have meal support, we have student support, we have housing allowance, we still have student loan credit. In this respect, we have a huge number of things that we will also allow for the study of children and young people from different social classes, and I believe that this will also be the goal of the government in the future. Is that not the case, Prime Minister, that in Finland any social class will continue to become, it is possible to study as far as the soul tolerates?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u84	Mr President! This is what we hold onto with our teeth: free teaching and the fact that there are also conditions for living during study. That is what we are absolutely sticking to. This is one of the most painful surgeries on our table right now. 4 billion is a large sum, and this is one of the most difficult decisions we have had to take in Smolna and now we have to implement it. Now, of course, our common will is, as the Minister for Education has said, to find the best possible way to achieve this so that its effects are as small as possible and that it is possible to adhere to the main principle mentioned by Mr Lauslahti that each Finnish home should be kept to a minimum.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u85	This time this question has been closed. We'll come back to this many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u86	Next question, Congressman Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u87	Mr President! Security policy is permanent, but there is one thing in which this government has made a clear policy change: it no longer thinks that the countryside is a waste but an important resource — the resource needed to create new growth in Finland. That is why, when the Government Programme was already being drawn up, a number of issues were outlined to facilitate entrepreneurship and rural housing. Mr Tiilikainen, Minister Tiilikainen, who has been particularly busy in this matter, and I would like to ask you, Mr Tiilikainen, how will this government liberalise construction in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u88	Would Secretary Tiilikainen be able to respond now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u89	Mr President! The question did not come quite surprisingly because, in accordance with the Government Programme, our ministry has, of course, set out to prepare these guidelines for the Government Programme. There are two main objectives for housing and construction: to increase and liberalise. To be added where there is a shortage of housing, such as in the largest urban areas. Freeing construction where it is currently bound by unnecessary regulations. We have already made a transfer of decision-making powers from the Ministry of the Environment to the provinces, from the Ely Centres to the municipalities with regard to derogations, and we are currently preparing to streamline the system of planning and building permits. There are all the points mentioned in the Government Programme with the aim of getting the legislation up to date, i.e. facilitating decentralised construction, facilitating the conversion of holiday buildings to permanent use, streamlining of end-use changes in general and facilitating small-scale yard construction and energy construction. This is in preparation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u90	One more question. Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u91	Mr President! Indeed, this period has brought the government up to date by cutting off those with low incomes and those with high incomes. Customer fees will be increased and medical and travel expenses will be cut. Concerns and confusion have been caused in particular by the new initial responsibility for medicines of EUR 50. Because of this responsibility, people have even had to leave without buying the drugs, because they simply cannot afford them. Health care therefore depends more and more on the thickness of the wallet. Is this really what the government wants to build? We in the Left Alliance cannot accept the initial responsibility of EUR 50, which increases the health inequalities between citizens. I would ask you, Minister: is the government prepared to withdraw this unfair initial liability, or is further weakening of the reimbursement of medicines to be made?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u92	Mr President! The amendment to the pharmaceutical reimbursement system came into force, and that was also what the representative asked whether the amendment would be made. I do not know how to prepare for a change of existing legislation in this respect. Secondly, further changes to the reimbursement system, such as the introduction of rational medicinal products, are in preparation. We have – and I do not remember the exact ten million, because unfortunately the Minister of Responsibility is not here for Question Time – for example, through rational medicine, the intention is to save several tens of millions of euros by 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u93	It is still time to give Mr Hongisto a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u94	Mr President! We Finns respect Finnish food and our food producers. We are particularly concerned about small and medium-sized family farms and the possibility for these farmers to continue to operate in increasingly competitive markets. In addition to competition, the situation of farmers is also hampered by the complex EU support systems and the fact that human error and unintentional errors are severely punished. Much has recently been said about this problem, because many farmers have been reduced from animal-based and arable payments as a result of unintentional neglect. One tick in the wrong place can cause a year of loss of subsidies. I would ask Minister Tiilikainen: does the government have the means to deal with the sanctions imposed on these farmers, which appear to be excessive and excessive?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u95	Mr President! Mr Hongisto's question is extremely important and also topical. The viability crisis in which many farms are currently living does not make it easier if farmers fail to receive payments due to a mistake. We have been able to interpret some of these mistakes well from the point of view of farmers. For example, we were able to interpret delays in animal register recordings in such a way that farmers do not experience unnecessary losses. On the other hand, if any aid has not been applied for entirely by the farmer, we cannot change that. And in the case of animal subsidies, there were around 1% of the applicants for aid last year. It is unfortunate that this problem cannot be completely remedied.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u96	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u97	Mr President! This bill, which is now under discussion, is addressed by the huge amount of Group grants that we receive — millions, even billions — to the Cayman Islands and other tax havens, among other things. There are a number of reasons for this, and this certainly does not support all loopholes alone, but it blocks one loophole. Our law, which is based on a number of things, dates back to 1986, that is, before the free movement of capital in Europe. A few years ago, in this country, the fact that large groups are paying corporate grants to their subsidiaries and parent companies in tax havens abroad rose quite a bit. This will enable them to transfer their annual profits beyond the reach of the Finnish tax authority. One example was the Finnish health company, which paid only EUR 0.4 million, or 1.1 per cent, of its annual profit of EUR 36 million. Thus minimal taxation had been achieved by the fact that the said limited liability company had paid a significant amount of group grant to a foreign subsidiary of its international tax haven-trapped group. The tax procedure stated is not in line with the law in force, i.e. the purpose of Law 825/1986 on group grants in taxation. Still, the same law makes this possible. In Article 3 of the Act, the tax deductibility of a group grant is bound by the fact that both parties, i.e. the entity that pays the grant and the entity that receives it, are resident with its registered home in Finland. The residence requirement is valid for both entities, whether the subsidiary is the payer or beneficiary of the group grant. This is apparent from Article 3 of the said Act. and the legal basis for this provision. The same domesticity requirement also applies in cases where another group company has its registered office in another EU country than Finland. This is reflected in the 2007 advance decision published by the Supreme Administrative Court in its yearbook. In fact, there are two sets of these precedents. Even less than within the EU, it is possible to accept the tax deductibility of a cross-border group grant in cases where a group company that has received funds from Finland as a group grant is located in a non-EU so-called tax haven, i.e. a country favoured by tax speculators. Article 3 of the Act on group grants in the field of taxation it is urgently necessary to clarify the wording of paragraph 3 with regard to its Article 3 because the wording of paragraph 3 relates to the year of birth of the law, 1986, i.e. before the full liberalisation of cross-border capital movements in Finland. In its original wording, Article 3 gives a certain basis for such an interpretation of the spirit and objective of the law, as already explained in the first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to the bill. The draft law provides that the word "domestic" should be added to Article 3(3) in a number of paragraphs in its appropriate form of bending. These increases will help to remove the gap identified in the corporate tax practice — one loophole, to put it in English. The law should enter into force so soon that it can be applied even as early as this year's final taxation. On the basis of the above, we propose that Parliament adopt the following draft law amending Article 3 of the Act on Group Grants in Taxation. In accordance with the decision of the Parliament, the Act on Group Grants for Taxation (825/1986) is amended. So this is the proposal, and I really hope that there will now be a windfall here. Last season, there was no tailwind. It was then found that it is the country's way of paying group grants, which are traced through Sweden, for example, to the Cayman Islands. But now this issue has come up again strongly in the European Union and also in this country. Perhaps now we should also make a correction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u98	Mr President! I must be pleased to say that as a left-wing member of parliament, I would like to be the cornerstone of a representative of the Finnish People's Party in this good wind of the bill. It is particularly important that we are able to block this route, which is clearly exploited. Mr Tolppanen had the argument that the legislation is so old that the subsequent changes in our money markets are not the same day. The debate on updating it is now very topical with this legislative initiative, and it must be done, otherwise we will be losing so to speak, when we are exporting Group Grants through Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u99	Mr President! This welcome initiative raises an important and painful issue that is commonplace in the European Union as well as in the rest of the world. Large companies lack the desire to pay taxes and use possible means of circumventing taxes in the country where the profit has been made. This activity is particularly affected by a Nordic welfare state such as Finland, whose maintenance requires a great deal of tax revenue. For this reason, I particularly like each Finnish word mentioned in the initiative in its abundant forms. The initiative referred to an unnamed health company in Finland, and may agree that this is an outrageous example of what is possible in the context of tax planning. Mr President! The bill alone does not eliminate aggressive tax planning, i.e. more people-specific maximisation of profits and minimisation of taxes, but even a slight increase in legislation to make tax collection more efficient is a good thing — the public's desire to pay taxes based on the idea that the basis and purpose of tax collection are fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u100	I will give the floor to the representatives of Ala-Nissilä and Uotila, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u101	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Tolppanen is right that the world has changed in many ways since the 1980s. The second thing is that capital necks are really flexible and tax avoidance and also aggressive tax planning is common in the world and we are also engaged in it. Without commenting on this initiative, which has a good purpose, I would like to emphasise that this tax speculation and the prevention of tax avoidance and avoidance is a matter of extensive international cooperation. Fortunately, there is more happening here, both at the OECD level and at the European Union level, and we must also hope for success in this work, because it may give us even more power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u102	Mr President! In just the same way, such initiatives are welcome in the sense that both the gimmicking of group grants, the gimmicking of transfer pricing and avoidance of tax must be curbed, both by international cooperation, at OECD level, at EU level and then by national legislation, because it is a threat to the well-being of tax revenues that such speculation takes place. This bill by Mr Tolppanen refers to this domesticity, and I hope that this form of legislative initiative will provide the security that Mr Tolppanen is seeking with this bill, but on the other hand we must remember that this domesticism is here a term that has been stoned: when we talk about supplementing Fennovoima's ownership structure, then Croatia will find some vague company in one of the stone walls of a house, and it was said that it is a domestic company when it comes from Croatia. And if in this case, too, this domesticity in this way
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u103	I will give the floor to Mr Tolppanen, on which this debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u104	Thank you. — A very good point. This is exactly the case, but there is also a European Court of Justice's position on this issue, which condemns even the fact that a group grant is being given to another EU country, which hopefully will be able to reduce it, but certainly this law would also require further reform. And this is a very good observation that this domesticism may be watered down in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u105	And now we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u106	Mr President! Representative Tolppanen's bill is engaged in a debate around an important topic. The example of the initiative is in no way exceptional. On the contrary, in many cases corporate taxes paid by large companies, even listed companies, are similar to those paid by small, local and entrepreneurial families. If the scale is extended worldwide, the tax losses caused by the erosion of the corporate tax base will be enormous. According to a recent estimate by the IMF, some USD 600 billion, or some EUR 500 billion, will be lost. Mr President! The internationalisation of business is of benefit to all of us. The international ownership of companies is part of this whole, that is, part of an entity that has increased the wealth of peoples throughout the world and in the most so-called developing countries. Of course, measures to prevent the erosion of the tax base must not become an obstacle to international business activity, to the establishment of foreign subsidiaries or to international ownership. The means must be found in the general tax policy. The key to the reform of corporate taxation is its simplification and clarification. The very first thing is to understand that the system needs to be cleaned up by means of an impulse to reduce taxable income. For tax deductions, you will always find your authors, arguments and supporters. As a rule, the results are poor. For example, tax deductions from innovation activities are easy and pleasant to pay for. However, it is difficult to determine what is a genuine innovation activity and what part of it would arise without tax incentives. In the end, the result will only be a random gap in taxation. Mr President! Taxation should be reformed by bringing the forms of equity and debt closer together in taxation. In today's world, over-indebtedness and over-indebtedness are not only a risk factor; corporate indebtedness and the increased risks to banks are also a problem of stability. Here, too, one must remember to be patient and to see the overall picture. International financial markets are not a problem in themselves, and often faulty financial innovations are also created to reduce business costs and risks. The issue is that tax legislation encourages the use of foreign capital rather than equity. Interest on corporate loans is generally fully deductible, but dividends are not. From an economic point of view, however, both are profit-sharing, the distribution of the business surplus in the form of capital payments. Mr President! Mr Tolppanen's initiative is an important part of the debate on tax reform. As such, this problem has been solved by a change in the law that entered into force in 2012, in which the right to deduct interest expenses has been limited. But let the debate continue, and the SDP, among other things, in its own alternative budget, proposes further reforms to improve taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u107	Mr President! Finland’s membership of the EU has opened the door to tax arrangements of this kind, which are very extensive and are derived from various countries for the benefit of different groups. They're not illegal, but they're immoral. I hope that this bill will succeed, but I do not believe that we can put domestic groups in a position of inequality with foreign groups in the EU, and this proposal may stumble on this. Perhaps we should wait for the amendments to the EU directive, which have already been mentioned and referred to, before this proposal can succeed. Then there's one thing that gives me a little thought in particular: This bill mentions companies, and perhaps we can guess what we are talking about here. However, I have not noticed that these companies have been sued for illegal tax evasion, even though many different legal solutions have now been mentioned which may have led to illegal tax evasion. I would therefore ask the author of the initiative to see what is really the situation here, whether they are illegal or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u108	Mr President! According to Montesquieu's doctrine, we have a triangular doctrine here. We are legislators, and then again things, the laws that may be violated, are traded in independent courts. So I cannot take a stand on this in itself. However, one element of why this is possible is the absence of these points of residence in paragraph 3 of Article 3, which are mentioned in this particular section and in the two previous paragraphs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u109	And now to the list of speakers again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u110	Mr President! This bill of Tolppanen, a representative of the Finns Party, for the amendment of Article 3 of the Act on Group Grants in Taxation, is an excellent example of how the Finns of Finland are involved in tax evasion. Mr President! I therefore warmly support the bill of the representative of the Finns Party, Mr Tolppanen, as a law amending Article 3 of the Act on this group contribution to taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u111	Mr President! The fact is, however, that the Finns are involved in a government that has repeatedly made legislative proposals that would favour tax evasion and withholding income. These proposals have been withdrawn from the amnesty law of tax evaders as well as from the administrative register law and, of course, if the government were serious, as serious as the previous government and there, above all, the finance ministers Urpilainen and Rinne, then the government itself would make legislative proposals which would interfere in tax avoidance, not only under the coercion of EU directives, and would not have to resort to a single representative being forced to take legislative initiatives here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u112	It should be appropriate to take the remaining three speeches and then proceed with the debate if there is still room for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u113	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen's legislative initiative to close loopholes in the taxation of group grants is very much to be welcomed. I have also signed this and followed Mr Tolppanen's long-term work on this matter. I hope that this initiative will be well received in committee and progress is being made. The money that goes into the pits of the shadow economy is out of welfare funding: schools, children, elderly services, health services. It is very important that aggressive tax planning is curbed and tax havens are closed. Large multinational companies can now enter into preferential tax agreements with, for example, Luxembourg and survive with less than 1% taxation in EU countries. More than 300 such agreements have been concluded. It is very unacceptable that the taxation of citizens in the EU countries has been tightened, that SMEs pay high taxes, and that is how large companies get away with it. The Commission has now put forward a proposal to reform corporate taxes. The aim is to have a better consolidated tax base and to pay taxes where profits are made. It is worthwhile for Finland to warmly support these Commission proposals, but also to propose improvements. For example, there is unfortunately no country-by-country reporting of companies in the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u114	Mr President! During the Ministry of Finance of Jutta Urpilainen, this tax deduction right for Group grants was addressed in 2012. It was and is part of the SDP's policy to tackle international tax evasion. The European Union has followed the Finnish initiative and now the Commission has published a programme to prevent tax evasion, which is linked to the good work of the OECD. When the 2012 Act was enacted, the Centre objected to the requirement that loopholes in group grants should also be blocked by the Income Tax Act and not only by the Business Tax Act. This would also help to address the group subsidies and trickery of real estate companies, where, at artificially high rates, funds are transferred to a country of zero taxation or low taxation. The opposition was right at the time, as foreign investors have billions of real estate assets in Finland, the proceeds of which are recycled beyond the reach of the Finnish tax authority. Now that the centre is in the board of directors, I have been waiting to see when it will meet its own demands to stop playing with real estate companies, but there has been no such initiative. On the other hand, it has appeared that one government minister has set up a low tax base for this particular property company in Belgium and has itself recognised that 'the purpose was tax planning'. It is important — and therefore I repeat the initiative taken in the SDP's alternative budget — to close loopholes in the Group's contributions to real estate companies. The Finns of Peru are involved in a government that has repeatedly made legislative proposals that would favour tax evasion and withholding income. I'm sure there's been some feedback from the field when the workers are on the run with the millionaires. But you have the power, Your Honor. Use it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u115	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen's bill has a very good and acceptable basic objective and purpose. Unfortunately, however, my view is that this problem, which is now being resolved, is not so much the result of Article 3(3) of the Group Grants Act, which is now being amended here — in fact, Article 3 of that Act. It must be read that the domesticity requirement applies equally to the cases of item three — but the arrangements that are in practice made for the transfer of assets and profits abroad are made through so-called sub-capitalisation agreements, i.e. the company that conducts its business in Finland is granted so much credit that the profits are collected as interest payments. As Mr Harakka said above, 2012 was passed by the then government — or by Parliament of course, but it was presented by the then government to Parliament — where interest rebates were restricted, and that was a step in the right direction, and I agree that this should now be examined as to whether this legislation should be tightened up. It actually only entered into force in 2014, as I recall, or even 15 — I think it was 14. In any case, it was a transitional period somewhat longer than we would have liked. This law and method should now begin to be restricted and we should consider how we can close it so that profits are not transferred abroad to tax havens for tax purposes. This is the way. I am sure that these committees will now examine whether this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u116	Thank you! When we speak here with Mr Salmon, we will know whether there is a bird or a fish in the voice. I fully agree that that legislation should have been continued, and the question was that the meritable regulation of 2012 only concerned business taxation, whereas real estate companies are subject to income tax. So that is why this kind of tax evasion has not been put in place in that respect. And, as I said, it is a matter of billions of dollars' assets and huge profits, which, without prejudice to any of these other corporate subsidies laws, can still be transferred to other countries. I'm glad if you're a representative. The salmon seems to have a proposal coming from the government to carry out what the centre called for three and a half years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u117	Mr President! I must say, both gentlemen, Mrs Salmon and Mrs Harakka: I really hope that you will dig up the loopholes in this legislation that is in force. This is just one small point which, for its part, is trying to close one loophole. Why don't you dig it up and present it, make some legal initiatives? This is an issue in which we have to work together; this is simply one. The reason why this bill came from me here and did not exactly come from the government as it is, although it will probably be dealt with there, is because I made a bill of this kind last season, but it did not go through. It was then stated by the then Minister for Finance — who was a Social Democrat — that there is a country's way of paying group grants in Finland, and in addition to my written question on this same issue, it was answered that it is all right in Finland if this foreign company has an office in Finland, not a place of residence, but a place of business, such as a hot dog kiosk or a studio in Kontula. That is sufficient to justify the fact that Group grants can then be paid. But I do not think we should go into this old case because, fortunately, this matter was taken forward in 12 years and has now been taken forward. The Union is involved in this, the OECD wants to intervene. Now there's that part, now it's not worth pecking and barking at others, but now it's time for all the strength in the same basket. I am quite prepared to bring this to the same initiative with you. Let's make a whole new law about how we're gonna close this, but let's do it. It's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u118	Mr President! The most important thing is certainly to solve the problem that has been identified in many cases recently, that the profits that arise from the business here in Finland should be taxed here in Finland. In Finland, we have brought our corporate tax rate down reasonably: 20 per cent is very low internationally, even when we consider our competitiveness. I think it is a reasonable tax now that it should be so that the profits generated by transactions in Finland are once and for all taxed here. And that's why I'm sure we'll agree on that basic idea here now. The only question now is whether this is the right law. In principle, then, of course, it will be clarified, and that is not the most important question. But here I agree with Mr Haraka that it is now necessary to consider, and I have also discussed it, whether this restriction on interest rates in the EVL, the Business Tax Act, will be extended to the TVL. First of all, it must also be examined in both cases whether the interest rate restriction now contained there is sufficient in scope, since it is known that these profits will still be transferred to some extent from this point of view. It's good to find out all these things. This is also important morally that this will be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u119	Mr President! I am delighted to agree with Mr Salmon on this point. At the same time, we must remember that we already have legislation on transfer pricing. This was the last thing that came up in connection with Caruna. I do not know whether the Group Tax Administration is now planning to investigate this transfer pricing, but it has been quite active. And once again, contrary to what Mr Tolppanen claims, during the previous government, there was a strong investment in the resources of both tax avoidance and possible tax evasion investigations. I would like to make a wish and appeal here to ensure, for example, that sufficient resources are provided for the meritful work of the Group's tax administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u120	There is no point in arguing about this, namely that history knows no alternative. These are all in the documents: what has been done in the last period, what has been answered in written questions and what has been done and said again in relation to my legislative initiative. It is true that later — I started this work back in 11 C.E. — changes were made to it, and these were the grounds I have just mentioned. One reason was that it is the country’s way of paying group grants. The second reason was that it is completely acceptable in Finland if the company has an office here but does not have a seat. After all, a place of residence would give you the right to But, as I have said, I do not think we need to turn it around right or wrong, very or badly. It's a good thing the first thing came out of there that something moved on. Let's finish this thing together, finish it. Let's go get all those parts. Now, whatever the law is, whatever's blocking those loopholes, let's shut them down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u121	Mr President! I have listened to this debate next to this, and it is great that, first of all, Mr Tolppanen, the representative of the Finns, has gone to great lengths and looked for such a loophole in the law to prevent money from being poured into tax havens. Now it seems that it is quite easy to expand this debate on this, and we are certainly all very much in agreement that all this tax haven activity should be aimed at preventing or making less attractive and so on and so on. It is nice that even Mrs Harakka thanked the government for cancelling these administrative register and amnesty laws, and I'm sure the Finns of Peru also have a role to play in this. But I would like to ask Mr Haraka in this debate, when I missed, what your position on this initiative by Mr Tolppanen was: did you therefore support this initiative, however, that such a loophole should be blocked?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u122	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u123	Mr President! By means of this bill, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group proposes to define what is a reasonable ceiling for the annual increase in the electricity transmission price. The background is, of course, that the largest electricity network company in Finland, Caruna Oy, announced massive increases in electricity transmission prices on 18 January 2016. According to the company's bulletin, the effect of the increase on the taxable sum of the transfer invoice is on average 27 per cent in the Caruna Oy region and 22 per cent in the Caruna Espoo Oy area on average. In some places the increases have been even greater. We submitted a bill before we had the information that Minister Rehn promised to intervene and made a proposal to limit our bill to an increase in electricity transmission prices — or the Minister promised to bring such a proposal to Parliament. Thank you very much to the Minister for promising to take action on this important issue. There seems to be a great consensus in Parliament that this situation and these excessive increases in electricity transmission prices must be addressed. Mr President! According to our legislative initiative, the Energy Agency's task is in particular to establish the reasonable price of electricity transmission, which, according to our initiative, would mean that the annual increase in the price of electricity transmission from the consumer should not exceed 10% or 15% over the four-year reference period of the Energy Market Agency. The Electricity Market Act was adopted in Parliament in 2013. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which adopted the report on the subject, drew attention to the costs incurred by consumers under the obligations imposed by the Electricity Market Act. A transitional period of 15 years was introduced for the Electricity Market Act, during which the electricity network company will carry out the reforms required by the Act, such as land archiving. At no time was the drafting of legislation taken into account or anticipated situation in which consumers' electricity transmission prices would be subject to massive lump-sum increases of what has now been announced. Given that it was the will of the legislative Parliament and the Economic Committee to prevent excessive price increases, the increases in electricity transmission prices must be regarded as contrary to the will of the legislator and therefore to the spirit of the law. That is why the amendment we have tabled is justified and, hopefully, the proposal for a change of law promised by the Minister would be along the same lines. Other possible legislative changes should also be made in order to moderate electricity transmission prices and prevent excessive increases. Among other things, the operating profit percentages allowed for companies should be limited, the proportionality of the security of supply obligations under the Electricity Market Act should be reviewed and the basic infrastructure such as electricity transmission networks should be defined as part of the strategic ownership of the State, which should not be privatised. Mr President! Moreover, in this case of Caruna in question, it is outrageous that the company in question is engaged in aggressive tax planning and that the intra-group arrangements minimise tax payments to Finland. In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Tolppanen for his initiative on the previous point, which is intended to contribute to reducing tax avoidance. I therefore hope that the government will intervene in tax avoidance by Caruna and other large companies, for example through transfer pricing, and I hope that this will be tackled with the same determination as has now been promised to address the excesses of one-off increases in electricity transmission prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u124	Mr President! All the present opposition parties, which, according to the view, are currently almost completely absent from the Chamber, were in the process of blessing the sale of a monopoly power transmission company, The theme of the previous reign is strongly inspired by opposition parties: first smudge and wisdom follows. Even Demar has already figured out how to make jobs better than the government, even though during the previous period they created nothing but unemployment. Now the Left Alliance is following the same line on electricity. This is called hindsight: first we make mistakes and find the right solutions afterwards, when we are no longer in power or responsible for speeches. However, it is good that the sale of the monopoly company, which has been blessed by the opposition as a whole, has given rise to a desire to look in the mirror but also to change the legislation. It is a pity, however, that the Left Alliance did not wake up to this need after the sale while still in the government. Mr President! Had this been done, the law could have come into force and prevented the excessive increases that have now taken place. About three years ago, Juha Sipilä tipped Mr Arhinmäki on the issue of dividend tax, and he understood what was decided. On 4 February this year, Minister Rehn promised to intervene in the increase in electricity transmission by law. The next day, that's 5.2. — this has been checked — the Left Alliance submitted this bill. Would it have been more elegant for the Left Alliance to be wise in advance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u125	Mr President! Representative Mäkelä should check the minutes of the last government term. In the Committee on Economic Policy, the Left-wing Alliance opposed Fortum's sale of electricity networks to Caruna. We've left a different opinion. It's in the minutes. You too can find it there and you can see that the Left Alliance did not bless Fortum's sale of power grids to Caruna when it was in the government. This is a fact, and this is in the history book. In that sense, I feel that it is absolutely justified that we here also criticise this, because we were able to foresee what it means to privatise this type of natural monopoly. However, it must be admitted that in the preparation of the Electricity Market Act it was not possible to see what kind of large one-off increases would be made, nor was it possible to put sufficient restrictions on these one-off increases, but now it is good that the Electricity Market Act should be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u126	Mr President! Without more concern now as to whether the authors of the new law are up-to-date or how, whether the previous government has made mistakes, I personally feel that this amendment to the Electricity Market Act is important for the consumer. In the future, when it comes to monopoly assets, which I believe are electricity networks in Finland, we should think very carefully about who it belongs to and how much they can make pricing and the situation of consumers more difficult. Since this issue of transfer prices is an issue which cannot be put to the market in practice, it is clear that justice must then be realised in these matters. In that sense, I consider this bill to be absolutely necessary, and it is good that the government is now tackling these injustices that have been found here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-25-ps-14.u127	Mr President! As a comment to Mr Sarkkinen, it has been stated in the debate here in the Chamber that the decisions of the government are joint decisions of the government, including those undesirable decisions. This has also been mentioned many times in the case of the Finns of Peru. The government has done many things that may not have pleased us, but decisions are common in the government. Collecting points on the issue is rather hollow, while the Left Alliance continued to play a part in the government front until later felt the need to resign.
