ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u2	First question, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u3	Mr President! Finns are concerned about their future and need relief in their daily lives. In its spending limits debate, the government had the opportunity to correct its unfair economic policy and to facilitate the daily lives of families and low incomes, but this was not the case. Instead of economic growth and new jobs, the Sipilä Government disciplines the poorest people and Finnish families. Prime Minister Sipilä, contrary to election promises, you cut levels of child benefit, basic unemployment allowance, labour market support, home care support, guarantee pensions, front pension, disability allowance and basic military assistance, among other things. These cuts affect hundreds of thousands of families, the unemployed and pensioners. Prime Minister Sipilä, this is a choice of values. I ask you: why do you increase inequality in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u4	Mr President! Behind this cut is the entry in the Government Programme, which is also found in the Social Democrats' election programme, which means that the indexes will be frozen. Now that the rate of inflation has been lower, we decided in that way to make a euro-denominated cut corresponding to the decision that would be lacking in these indices. These are all targeted at the very sites for the freezing of indexes as defined in the Government Programme. As regards this second part of the issue of economic and employment development, there were 100,000 new unemployed in the last period. If these unemployed people hadn't come in 100,000 more last season, we wouldn't have to cut any more. That is why a whole new kind of action is needed this period to raise the employment rate to 72%. If it is done, then living as a liability will end in 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u5	The Minister of Finance, Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u6	Madam President! Since this question is certainly going to dominate this Question Time, I would like to begin with the scale and framework in which we are engaged in this debate. The Government aims to adjust EUR 4 billion at the 2019 level. In order to keep up with the adjustment path, this spending limits decision required adjustments of EUR 370 million. They were divided as follows: 130 municipalities, 195 index freeze compensation, 22 sickness allowance, 35 basic bus maintenance and EUR 25 million for development cooperation. These are not new savings in themselves, but are those that try to stick to our objective of adapting to the 4 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u7	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u8	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, these are purely new cuts, cutbacks from the daily lives of unemployed and low-income people directly. But Prime Minister Sipilä, you presented good slides, illustrative slides at the press conference in connection with the spending limits debate. They clearly showed that our absolute and overwhelming priority in securing the financing of the welfare society and in building the future is to raise the employment rate. That is exactly what we agree on. On that we do not agree that the situation of the disadvantaged will be further destabilised. Prime Minister Sipilä, the SDP has put forward a number of options for increasing revenue: a fiscal tax on the undertaxed financial sector, a moderate tightening of the highest earnings and capital income, as well as the taxation of millions of dollars. So it is a cold choice to make people who are already struggling in their everyday lives pay. This economic situation is not their fault. Prime Minister, there are always alternatives to politics. Are you prepared to introduce the options offered by the SDP to increase revenue?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u9	Mr President! On the tax side, we made one decision, that is, a candy tax which proved impossible to implement, will be replaced by a petrol tax, i.e. a tax side, on the revenue side, a one-off decision of approximately 100 million. The Minister of Finance said this: a total of EUR 4 billion, of which EUR 370 million remained open, most of which comes from the fact that the impact of these indices is less than estimated, and we are now doing the same amount in euros. The second part of the package is that the tasks of municipalities have been facilitated in such a way that they can save EUR 403 million there. It is EUR 130 million less than because these have not been adopted by municipalities. We are following it closely to achieve the savings of EUR 4 billion in public finances. After all, not all of these savings are directed at central government, but for the first time in this parliamentary term we are looking at public finances as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u10	Mr President! Yes, the government has made very tough value choices in the spending limits debate, cutting more from sick people, basic security and students to a great deal. But I am also surprised that you have said before and the Minister of Education has strongly stressed that it is up to the municipalities to decide whether they restrict the full right of children to day care, whether they are raising group sizes or not. There have been enlightened decision-makers in the municipalities who have defended children's right to day care and have not performed the surgeries you have been driving. You are now retaliating it to the municipalities and to these people by raising customer fees, even by saying that you are planning a retail charge for health care that not all municipalities have wanted to introduce to date. Many municipalities have wanted health care to be free of charge, and you are now proposing customer fees increases to the municipalities as revenge for defending children's right to day care. What is the world of values behind this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u11	Mr President! The first reason for this is that a decision was taken in 2013 under the leadership of the Socialist President, the Minister for Finance, during the previous term of government, to reduce the tasks and obligations of the Kun-tie road by EUR 1 billion. You didn't make it happen. In addition, during the last parliamentary term, you made very large cuts in the central government's share of municipalities, which, in my view, still exist in the framework of next year and next year, amounting to EUR 90 million, the cuts you have made. Now, under this government, we have decided that we will allow municipalities to balance their own finances, their financial position, and now some municipalities have not. We are now looking at what we are doing about this in the spending limits debate. We have not made detailed decisions on how this will be done. If the municipalities make their decisions this year in connection with next year's budget, we can even give this up. This issue is genuinely open, but 2017
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u12	Mr President! Indeed, at the announcement of the spending limits committee, the government announced that the customer fees for social welfare and health care will be increased in the future. The government even intends to force municipalities to take advantage of the increased customer fees — even the municipalities whose decision-makers have wanted to act fairly and not make these increases. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already in a situation where long-term sick people cancel their medical appointments or nurse’s appointments due to customer fees. That is why even serious changes in their health are overlooked. Medicines have also become more expensive and health inequalities are increasing. So I ask you, Prime Minister, why does the government want to increase health inequalities by further increasing customer charges?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u13	Madam President! The Kun-tie economy is also unbalanced: around EUR 2 billion was the deficit when it started. The municipalities have called on the government, the parliament, to decide that their duties should be relaxed in such a way that they too can balance their economies. For the first time now, we are looking at this whole package in such a way that we do not just cut the state's shares directly and pass them on to the municipalities, as has been done in the past. Now let's look at the whole thing. But now, if the municipalities do not make the relief that we have made here in accordance with the decisions, then the municipalities should do something else themselves. That's the right of the municipality itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u14	Fru talman, Madam Speaker! It is clear that in this economic situation the state is forced to adapt, and the government has made its own adjustment choices. They are not fully in line with our values, but it is good that you have at least made decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u15	Mr President! This employment rate objective and the budgetary adjustment target have a small margin, i.e. it is not necessary to go to 72 % just because this budgetary framework and a total of EUR 4 billion are not met. If 72% of the employment rate is achieved, then the debt-to-GDP ratio will end two years earlier than planned. But this is an extremely important objective for us, on which we want to stick with our teeth. Now, the actions that are in the pipeline and the growth path that is in this forecast will lead to an improvement of about one percentage point in this employment rate. The second percentage point will come from the social pact, if we hope it will now go to the finish line by the end of next month — that is to say, we will be a little over half in this big job. On Tuesday next week, employment measures and the entrepreneurship package will be presented, which will take up part of this remaining half. But we recognise the need for further action to be taken by that budget line until next autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u16	Madam President! Our objective in this spending limits decision was to maintain the Government's basic economic policy line, which was defined less than a year ago. It constituted a total of EUR 4 billion for adjustment, in which the rate of taxation does not increase and in which indebtedness is broken down. That was our goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u17	Fru Talman! Jag är absolut av samma åsikt som finansministern om att det är bra att ni tog några steg tillbaka när det gäller de bull utbildningsnedskärningarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u18	Madam President! In this decision on the spending limits, we made three decisions relating to training. The first was that education and research are not being cut off. The second was that from the index point of view, we transferred a permanent item of expenditure of EUR 37 million to the expenditure of OKM. And the third was that we are investing around EUR 105 million in research and training in a new way. It was the choice we made in this economic situation, in this spending limits debate. This spending limits argument differs from the previous spending limits that have been seen in recent years, so now we just stuck to the government's objective. If we look at the spending limits in 2012, 2013 and 2014, then giant additional adjustments were made because the basic economic career had not started.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u19	Madam President! I would still like to stick to this employment debate. The impact of the increase in the employment rate target from 68% to 72% on how the government will achieve its objectives was striking. The objective of raising the employment rate is certainly a good thing, but the budgetary plan cannot be built on mere estimates and targets. It is good that the government will bring its entrepreneurship and competition packages to us next week, but I would like to ask what concrete measures the government is taking to support employment and entrepreneurship in order to raise the employment rate to 72%, and have you made an assessment of the sectors in which these new jobs might be created?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u20	Madam President! Now we're at the heart of it. There's no simple way to solve this. Quite rightly, as the Prime Minister said, next Tuesday, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, Olli Rehn, we will be reporting on the entrepreneurship package on the one hand, and on the employment package on the other. Of course, these are intertwined, as everyone understands. The second point is the treatment of unemployment. There are measures to support employment, but then there are these measures relating to unemployment, and then I come out of the closet myself on 18 April, which is about, among other things, passive security, its conversion to a more active direction, the dismantling of incentives traps and so on. This is a major and demanding exercise in which I naturally hope the support of the opposition, because I understand that you have exactly the same ideas regarding the management of unemployment. Passive security, active security: this will not be, I will say it again, the model presented by the SDP, but it is the model built in TEW, but it will then be described in more detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u21	Madam President! I want to correct this mistake. By no means have we built a budgetary plan on the 72% employment rate. So we will by no means build plans on anything but hard ground. For example, we do not yet have a guarantee of the creation of a social agreement, and its impact is not yet within this plan. What, then, could those actions be? Eight sets: we will strengthen the financing of companies. We're going to break standards. We will change the structures of working life. We will make decisions on the tax side. They have been mentioned in the Government Programme. Team Finlandia will be strengthened. The competitiveness package plays a key role in this, the entrepreneurship package. Also, public investment — quite a lot of discussion in the spending limits debate — is quite high in Finland at the moment, at around 8 billion, which is 4% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u22	Madam President! Even last week, under the spending limits debate, even in this Chamber and in public, the Finns of the Finnish Government and the representatives of the Centre of Government gave the message that the time for further cuts is absolutely over. It was, Mr President, a great deal of confusion and shock to see that, as a result of the debate on the spending limits, the government is making further cuts and targeting them even the weakest. Hundreds of millions are now being cut from the most vulnerable. This despite the fact that, for example, before the elections, Timo Soini said that the poorest cannot, cannot and cannot afford to operate. President-in-Office, this was a rather cruel reading of this list of cuts. Surgery is for children, the unemployed, the sick, the disabled and pensioners. People must be very worried about this right now. Prime Minister Sipilä, you now have a big responsibility. Contrary to promises, you cut off the weakest. How on earth did this happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u23	Madam President! I thank Mrs Viita for this question. For example, a guarantee pension that you did not achieve, this government has raised EUR 23 first and in this spending limits debate will raise EUR 8. What happened during your period: 19.7 billion new debt to the state,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u27	Mr President! Mr Viitanen's question about these indices — it is good to come back to that. A year ago, when the Government Programme was adopted, I understand that these index solutions, index cuts, were applied for an impact of around EUR 1 billion on public finances. Now I would like to make sure from the Minister for Finance that this billion-dollar cut will come to EUR 1.2 billion after the new index decisions that have now been taken, as I have just understood, or will this be the only way to achieve the EUR 1 billion impact that has been decided a year ago?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u28	Madam President! The answer to Mr Vanhanen's question is unambiguous: it does not rise, it stays in it in the billion. In other words, we are sticking to the adjustment path and we linked this decision specifically to the unrealised index savings, which were linked to the fact that total inflation did not start.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u29	Madam President! Minister Lindström, you said that the government is going to turn passive support into active support, and a week ago in Question Time you said that the government is going to change the use of labour market support in such a way that it would make it possible to start a business — if I remember correctly. I also remember, Prime Minister Sipilä, as you yourself have said many times, that a change in earnings should be made in such a way that it should make it possible for a person to start a business, that is to say, it would work like a start-up money. I assume that when the government says that it will turn passive security into active security, you also mean earnings-related unemployment benefit. I would also remind you that the problem today is that more and more people are falling from earnings-related basic daily allowance and it will be terribly difficult for the basic daily allowance to continue to work as periods of unemployment increase. In other words, I assume that the primary objective of the government is precisely to get people into employment from that earnings-related point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u30	Madam President! First of all, the issue of unemployment benefit. This is about state-funded unemployment benefit. As far as earnings are concerned, the organisations are opposed: neither the EK nor the SAK will accept it. So all we can do is do what the state is funding, and then it is the tool that will hopefully get to grips with these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u31	Mr President! The main decision and solution of the spending limits committee was that we showed that Finland bears responsibility for its own economy, and we pointed it both towards the European Union and towards the rating agencies. In a country where public finances are not in order, there is also no investment. It is unable to promote employment. It is unable to guarantee the well-being of its citizens. It was very important that this was clearly demonstrated, and I thank the government for that. I would like to ask Mr Lindström: when this solution also includes major urban development projects such as the Railway-Jokeri Helsinki-Espoo region and the Tampere tram route, can it not be possible to promote growth and employment and housing and thus move closer to the government's employment objective?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u32	Madam President! The question had not been ordered in advance, but this came without asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u33	Madam President! It is true that this spending limits debate reminds me of the fact that the government parties failed their last election vows. Prime Minister Sipilä, you spoke long before the elections about restoring public confidence in politics. Just before the elections, you promised that the euro of pensioners, students and families with children would not be cut by one cent. And when asked separately, you said 'yes, the level will not be cut' just a few weeks before the election. Now the end result is that you cut hundreds of millions of dollars for the support of these people, you cut levels. But then there is Minister Soini: All the other election promises have already been betrayed, and I thought myself that you will hold on to one and that is this gas tax. My soir will raise the tax, and the laborer will pay. How much does this place of yours cost to the Finnish taxpayers?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u34	Mr President! Most parties had one billion on the reserve list for freezing these indexes. And this comes to its euro, exactly as the government programme has decided, as has already been heard on many occasions. For example, this affects the child allowance about 80 cents and none more than is written in Appendix 6 in euros. With regard to this earnings-related conversion into daily allowance — Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, you raised it — we have tried very hard to push it forward, but for some reason the social partners see it as distorting competition. I hope that this House can help to get this good proposal through, because this would be a very good reform to activate
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u41	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you are quite right that it is crucial for the future of Finns and Finland what happens to the employment rate and what happens to unemployment. The opposition expected concrete, clear forms of unemployment in the amending budget. We waited for them in the spending limits decision. Now you say the 12th will be the package, 18th. The day comes with a package. If you have the concrete, good, effective means of reducing unemployment, why have they not already been presented? In February, the number of long-term unemployed persons who had been unemployed for over a year was 122,000, 19 per cent more than one year earlier. There really is a lot of work to be done here. Give us the concrete means of reducing unemployment and soon. We are happy to welcome them in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u42	Madam President! These decisions will be taken and made public before they come to Parliament in the context of this whole package of frameworks. We'll have time to deal with these here. What you said about long-term unemployment: the average duration of unemployment has continued for that 52 weeks, that is, a year. If we could get it to shorten to 36 weeks, which has been such an average for quite a long time, this too would bring 110,000 new jobs and in the same way would increase its employment rate to the desired level. In other words, measures are also needed to reduce the duration of unemployment, and we are now considering them as part of this package as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u44	Madam President! And a representative Lindtman that Uotila's question was actually what this spending limits decision showed. I think it is important in this debate, followed by between 300,000 and 400,000 Finnish viewers... In my opinion, the spending limits decision showed that this government has the power to make decisions. This government is sticking to its government programme and this government has a credible economic policy. Is this the end of work? Of course not. That is why we are putting on the table the entrepreneurial package and the employment package on 12 April. That is why we are trying to promote the social pact, and that is why we also have a budget debate in a perfectly normal way in August. What do we need now? We need measures that increase both the demand for work and the supply of work in this country, because we cannot continue on this path of cutting. We can only continue on the road to work, and that is what this government is trying to promote with these decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u45	Madam President! It is true that the government is stubbornly sticking to its own government programme, even though the employment objective is getting further and further away. Prime Minister Sipilä, you will not get over it or around it: yes, these people, the poorest of them, will be cut off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u48	Mr President! The first part of the question came to me. If there had not been 100,000 more unemployed in the last period, none would have to be cut, no development aid, no education, no indexes, nothing. We are now correcting this situation by having to cut and make these big reforms, which have been going on for a long time, and to get them for growth. These opportunities for growth, for raising this employment rate to 72%, we take this very seriously and we will do everything we can to achieve it. Here at the bottom of the frame is currently
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u49	Madam President! Yes, that is what I said, and a new decision had to be made here. That's right. Why did it have to be done? Because the EU did not allow sweets to be taxed more heavily on ice cream, ice cream, candy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u52	Mr President! EU does not force Minister Soins to make any bad and hard decision for the Finnish poor, you make them yourself, on your own initiative. With regard to how to boost the economy and employment, let us review a little of the impact of your cuts: They hit the same person. Although parents working in the public sector — the police, the nanny with two children at day care age — go away thousands of euros a year because of social contract, wage cuts, holiday allowance cuts. The increase in daily care fees is EUR 1450 for two children. Then come these other cuts in benefits, the cuts in child supplements, what you are doing now. In addition, training, education are cut, group sizes are increased. Thus, Finns are concerned, and this squatting of people leads to a reduction in domestic consumption and difficulties for small entrepreneurs in obtaining customers, which means that there will only be more unemployment. You're in the process of causing a spiral of surgery, as long as it keeps going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u53	Madam President! The cycle of surgery will continue until we can create new jobs in this country. We are currently in a spiral in which, from 2009 onwards, we have taken roughly EUR 9 billion of debt on average per year at public level. This is a debt burden that is automatically passed on to future generations. This cycle can only be stopped by increasing employment. Last year our economy grew by 0.5 per cent, an estimated 0.9 per cent this year, roughly about one per cent towards the end of this reign. At present, we have a favourable climate in the global economy, such as the loose monetary policy of the ECB, such as the low value of the euro and the price of oil. Yet we have not been given enough impetus to the economy. In this government, we will do everything in our power to achieve growth and jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u54	Mr President! Here, too, the Prime Minister and many representatives have highlighted the link between employment and public finances and the objective of employment. However, there is one reform of the labour market which, I believe, could be done quite soon, and which would not cost any more public money. I am thinking of this reform, which is also recommended in this Competitiveness Pact, which would make it possible for non-organised small companies to make use of locally adapted flexibility in collective agreements as much as large companies which, through their organisation, are bound by collective agreements. After all, we have had such a strange situation in Finland that small companies, in which most of the new jobs are created, have not been able to use the flexibility that is present in collective agreements. Clearly, we now have the opportunity to remedy this long-standing problem, which is why I would like to ask Mr Lindström when such a reform is coming and whether it will soon be part of these packages.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u55	Madam President! As Mr Vartiainen and many others well know, the competitiveness package, the negotiation of local agreements are currently there in negotiations in the hands of the organisations, and they have been given the right to work on these issues. In due course, these will come as their own package in that May-June period. We have reached some conclusions a long time ago as to how this is going to go. Personally, I am confident that everyone at the negotiating table will understand the situation in which Finland is and what we need. I am confident that there will be some very wise proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u56	Mr President! I agree with the answers of ministers, where better employment and higher employment rates require more predictability, and more confidence is needed to ensure that entrepreneurs are prepared to implement the business plans they have. Therefore, the more difficult the situation, the greater the condition is to create these conditions. We have already heard more answers. I would also like to ask specifically about corporate taxation for companies. Minister Stubb, is the government going to implement all the corporate tax reforms that have been recorded in the government negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u57	Madam President! In the Government Programme we have wholesale business taxation and business taxation entities currently under preparation, and then we have wholesale companies that are also under investigation, and we will publish some of them here on 12 April. The second point to this whole is that we are trying to ensure that, during this term of government, tax policy is not squirming. So what is agreed is done, and what is promised is done. Finally, I fully agree with Mr Kalli that the credibility of Finland's economic policy depends very much on whether the government adheres to its own government programme. We are being watched by ratings, we are being watched by the European Commission and, of course, we are also being watched by voters who want to see economic growth in this country going up. So this government and its economic policy and fiscal policy line, its credibility and continuity, can be trusted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u58	And now, Mr Rinne, the first author of this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u59	Thank you, Your Honor! Firstly, as the Prime Minister spreads false information about the election programme of the SDP, we had specifically excluded these social security indexes, cuttings, freezings. I would like to point out that the fact for these people, who receive child allowances and labour market support, and so on — the list of 25, 26 which is now subject to cuts instead of freezing the index — is that, from the point of view of these low-income people, that money will in any case disappear from the account. It won't be there. And it is the real experience of those people that incomes are shrinking, the situation is deteriorating. The cuts in the competitiveness pact for these same people, if it comes to the finish line — hopefully the finish line — and the government's previous surgical decisions, which are very tough for families with children, the unemployed, the elderly, pensioners and education. Now I ask you again, Prime Minister, because you have not just answered it: can you, in line with the recommendation of the Economic Assessment Council and in line with the OECD recommendation, introduce the revenue side and make income increases in line with these SDP proposals? It's a choice of values.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u60	Mr President! Mr Rinne, if there was a mistake in my proposal — 800 million, I think, was the proportion of index cuts in the SDP election programme, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u66	Next question, Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u67	Mr President! Panama papers have raised the issue of tax evasion and tax avoidance. The government has also expressed its intention to combat tax evasion and the shadow economy, but the targets appear to be on a weak footing. Rather, Finland has taken a tough stance on a number of projects that increase tax transparency and limit the scope for tax evasion in the European Union. For example, last autumn, the EU Council of Ministers discussed information on tax arrangements to the European Parliament, whose special committee is investigating tax loopholes. Finland was a member of a group of Member States which prevented the committee from being informed. According to our information, the Commission is now consulting Member States again on the same issue. I would like to ask the government: is the government going to change its line? Will Finland still prevent Parliament's Committee of Inquiry from doing its work, or will it allow the documents requested by it to be submitted to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u68	Madam President! Panama Leaks will open up a chain of events and a wheel that will change tax policy and the exchange of tax information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u71	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. Representative Parviainen Olli-Son.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u72	Madam President! Despite the answer, Finland has also played a role as a brakeman in other EU issues and has systematically focused on the problems of the proposals rather than on solutions. For example, the government has also been critical of the EU's blacklist of tax havens, has slowed down on the CCCTB and has blocked the initiative for country-specific corporate tax reporting. My question is: is the government now going to change this line in relation to these issues? What are the concrete initiatives that the government is now going to actively pursue, particularly at EU level, where these issues need to be resolved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u73	Madam President! The first part of the answer is correction. Finland is pushing very hard for country-specific country-specific reporting on taxation, and the draft government proposal has just come out of the consultation process. However, this reporting concerns tax reporting to the authorities, and it is important for Finland that the authorities have access to all possible information. We are in favour of tax transparency and transparency. However, there are also different aspects of public tax reporting that we will continue to explore along the way. I would add that in March, at the Ecofin meeting of finance ministers, we had a package on the table that came out of the Commission with anti-tax evasion measures. This package contains a proposal for a Directive on the prevention of tax avoidance. It contains a recommendation on issues related to the tax agreement and includes a proposal for a Directive implementing the OECD country reporting system. We have strongly supported this overall package.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u74	Mr President! This is a very good thing that this leak came. That information is probably also available for use by the Finnish tax authorities, which is a good thing. If criminal activity appears there that these have not been reported, it will then be a police matter. On Tuesday next week, the government will have a strategy to combat the shadow economy on the table, and Mrs Lintilä, on the political radio this morning, suggested whether the whole fight against these tax havens could be the place to set up a parliamentary group. I have been thinking about it during this day, and I think it might be a good idea, because this is work that goes on over the parliamentary term, our joint efforts to do everything possible to prevent these tax havens, both at national and at EU level. I am prepared to think seriously about this proposal by Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u75	Mr President! It is clear that many persons who have hidden their money in tax havens have used one or more assistants in practical arrangements because they themselves do not have sufficient know-how and are not linked to the creation of shell companies in tax havens, the elimination of the origin of money or other money laundering activities. Mr President! Chapter 5, Section 6 of the Criminal Code to be punished for an aid offence. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: will the Ministry intervene in the activities of banks and investment firms promoting tax evasion, and will it actively seek to sanction unacceptable practices by promoting, for example, the withdrawal and restriction of the authorisation provided for by the Financial Supervision Act, in order to make banks and investment firms contributing to tax evasion liable for their actions and economic damage to society?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u76	Madam President! As Mr Savio says, there are banks and investment firms in Finland, and they are, of course, supervised by the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Financial Supervisory Authority is independent and independent in its activities and has the powers specifically provided for in the law to intervene in the offences or offences it detects in the activities it supervises. I am convinced that the Financial Supervisory Authority will investigate whether there has been any negligence in Nordea's or other activities in Finland and, if necessary, will take appropriate action on the basis of the report. Nordea's Luxembourg operations are monitored and possibly sanctioned by a local authority. As regards both tax evasion and the fight against money laundering, it is important to strengthen cooperation and exchange of information between different countries. I would like to emphasise that this will indeed give impetus to the exchange of tax information, because capital is moving freely. This will be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u77	Mr President! The proposed parliamentary working group to combat tax evasion, to curb aggressive tax planning and to tackle tax havens is a very good tool, and I hope it will happen. We, on the left, are offering 12 concrete initiatives to prevent tax planning and tax evasion, such as sanctions for management registration, blocking loopholes in interest relief rights, national accounting and the renewal of transfer pricing rules. Mr President! The moralisation of tax evasion is enough, but we need concrete and correct measures. A tax payment cannot be optional for others when it is compulsory for the ordinary people. The problem is not just illegal tax evasion, but aggressive tax planning on the borders of the law, which is often legal in itself. If all these tax leaks were blocked and tax havens closed, there would be no need to do so now. Mr President! Will you take up the concrete measures we have put forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u78	Madam President! I can guarantee that if there is one person in this Chamber who is interested in collecting tax revenue, it is the Finnish Minister of Finance. As has already been said, there are national provisions on intermediate entities, restrictions on the right to deduct interest from companies, general tax evasion rules, transfer pricing regulations and a limited hybrid code based on the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. These and other new legislation can certainly be developed. The fact is — and here I agree with the honourable Member — that everything relating to the shadow economy and to tax evasion is out of business and people who deserve honest euros that benefit the welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u79	Madam President! If the Prime Minister is, as he said, bringing a proposal for such a parliamentary working party to be set up, then the Christian Democrats will be very much involved and congratulate on such an opening. This would be excellent. Now we need those things. Measures are needed to prevent tax evasion, and the Christian Democrats have already proposed in their last alternative budget that 10 million should be added specifically to the Tax Administration in order to increase the number of tax officials investigating this grey economy and also tax evasion and precisely international tax offences. At the moment, there are 15 people in Finland who are investigating these issues in the Tax Administration, when, for example, there are already 200 people in Sweden alone. Is the government now really prepared to resource and ensure that we have the necessary officials who are able to prevent this tax evasion?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u80	Mr President! I have just received the approval of the government parties that this sort of parliamentary monitoring group can be set up, and it can now be promised here. Mr Essayah and others who have made proposals here are now the right place to bring these proposals. I will reply so briefly so that the Minister for Finance will also have time to answer this part of the question that concerns him, if that is the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u82	Madam President! Mr Essayah's question related to our resources. In fact, public estimates of the resources of Finland and some other Nordic tax authorities related to tax supervision of cross-border situations are no longer up-to-date. We use 95 person-years in different units of the Tax Administration for this activity. After all, the tax administration accounts tax revenue to tax recipients of approximately EUR 50 billion per year, with an increase of EUR 400 million in taxable income and EUR 444 million in commissions based on tax controls. We currently have 4,900 person-years in the Tax Administration — I went there last week. This amount will decrease gradually, but it will not be linked to this whole. Of the funds, we had EUR 20 million in the previous government to combat the shadow economy. Now the level of funding is around 16 million and the level of internal security 50 million. We are in complete agreement on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u83	And one more question about this theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u84	Mr President! These Panama papers are indeed shocking, and they now seem to tell us that things are exactly as people have feared, that there are many morals in society and that they also seem to be the case among the elite. However, they can have the good effect of getting involved. Parliament has done a great deal of work on two occasions, in 2007 and 2011 to mobilise these proposals for measures in the shadow economy. The previous government also did a lot of work in this regard. Today, the Parliamentary Audit Committee has decided that it will target this international tax evasion investigation, and this will start next week. The committee will also consult not only the representatives of the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance, but also these banking and investment institutions, so that this issue can be brought to light and see what can be done here. Previous parliamentary decisions include:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u85	And I think this is Secretary Orphan. Would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u86	Mr President! In fact, access to information is an important issue when it comes to this matter from a police point of view. At the moment, the police have very limited access to the material that is now in the world in connection with the Panama spill, without breaking the protection of the press. So it's not possible because it's protected by the law. But it seems that the first authority is the Tax Administration, which can take off here, and if there is a suspected criminal activity, then it will be transferred to the police. I am very pleased that the fight against the shadow economy that started during the last term of government has been continued and funded in the work of this government, and I believe that the police are well resourced for the situation when it comes to their own time. Of course, even now, the police, through their own channels, are trying to obtain material, to obtain information and to investigate these serious, serious doubts that exist in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u87	And briefly, Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u88	Madam President! Yeah, the administration of the Ministry of Justice includes this international cooperation in the investigation of criminal offences. There has been much discussion in the EU and the Council of Europe about, among other things, this acquisition of evidence in electronic form when it is located abroad. The aim is, of course, to create faster and more effective tools to facilitate the resolution of these crimes in that cyberworld. And Finland has, of course, participated and will participate actively in this kind of discussion because we need global solutions. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for the unanimous approval this week of this government's proposal to reform the legislation on the consequences of the loss. This will implement this Directive on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime. Nice work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u89	One more question and answer. Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u90	Mr President! I thought there was no time to ask questions as important as I have. My question is therefore to the Prime Minister and the Government. Prime Minister Sipilä, you have often paid attention to the role and duty of vulnerable asylum seekers, including women who have experienced violence, victims of trafficking in human beings and children, to protect them when current issues have been discussed in Greece. But are you aware, Prime Minister, that there will also be alarming reports in Finland that we are expelling vulnerable women and their children, recently even mothers with up to four children and babies, Nigeria and Italy without any knowledge that they have any care or housing there? Migri, the Finnish Immigration Service, has previously drawn attention to the fact that the situation of the vulnerable has been measured, that there have been specialist medical certificates which have been able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u91	Madam President! So the starting point for the asylum investigation is that everyone gets individual treatment and that is thorough. The rule of law must be based on the fact that this process is complete. The case you are referring to, I do not know, but I believe that this is a good thing to clarify and see, as is the case with every decision. There is always a possibility of appeal where, ultimately, the right to decide on it and to assess whether the decision on asylum, and hence on return, has been taken on the right basis of individual treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u92	Mr President! This is, of course, very important, but it would perhaps be more effective if, at the outset and not after the complaint, these issues were raised. The reception system for asylum seekers has been a worthy body of ours which has guided the system of assistance for victims of trafficking in human beings. Since last July, this activity has almost ceased. I would like to ask: is the government going to act in such a way that this activity is now being stepped up so that women and children can actually be protected in Finland as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u93	Mr President! In the midst of this refugee crisis, too, we have been leaving all the time for the system that exists in Finland to identify the most vulnerable people to be able to concentrate on helping them. That is the big starting point and priority that we have, and that is what I think we should have. Of course, this was a serious observation you made, and I promise you that I will find out and we will be able to discuss this case in greater detail and see if something has changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u94	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 5/2016 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u95	Mr President! This is based on the committee's report on both the amending budget and the accompanying supplementary proposal. On this basis, the net increase in appropriations is approximately EUR 89 million and the increase in actual revenue is estimated at EUR 10 million, resulting from the improvement of Metsähallitus' profit. The biggest increases are made in the risk management of central government cash investments, amounting to 38 million, which is due to a fall in interest rates in the euro area. In addition, an equivalent amount of EUR 38.5 million is proposed to be deducted from the budget for combating environmental damage caused by the bankruptcy of Talvivaara Sotkamo and would be allocated to the capitalisation of Terrafame. In addition, the Finnish Transport Agency will be given a mandate of EUR 132 million to conclude a service contract for icebreaking services. In addition, the funding of the National Park to be established in the centenary year of Finland’s independence will be brought forward in order to open the National Park in early summer 2017. The committee notes that the general text of the draft amending budget, which complements the draft amending budget, incorrectly states that the proposal has no impact on the spending limits. However, the supplementary proposal will add EUR 38 million to expenditure in the spending limits. In addition, taking into account the actual draft amending budget, spending limits expenditure will increase by around EUR 89 million. The draft amending budget increases the need for net government borrowing by around EUR 79 million, and the net state borrowing is estimated at around EUR 5.4 billion in 2016. At the end of the year, central government debt is estimated to be around EUR 105 billion, which is about 50 per cent of GDP. Now for the class-specific changes. In Section 29, in the administrative field of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the committee supports, as proposed by the government, the allocation of EUR 375000 to the St.Petersburg Foundation. The assistance is necessary, because according to the report received, the economy of this St.Petersburg Foundation is in great difficulty, which endangers the continuity of the activities of the St.Petersburg Institute and St.Petersburg Finnish School. Section 30: The entry into force of the Government's proposal for legislation on the reorganisation of Metsähallitus relating to the draft amending budget will be moved from the estimated date of 1 April 2016 to 15 April 2016, when the Finance Committee will amend the final part of the chapter accordingly. Section 32 was the most talked about and most interesting thing: Terrafame Group Oy's equity capital is proposed to increase by EUR 38.5 million to ensure the continuity of its operations. The amount now proposed has been spared from the EUR 100 million allocation in the first amending budget for 2015 intended to combat environmental damage caused by the bankruptcy of Talvivaara Sotkamo Oy. The public investigation will continue, but the costs will be limited as the bankruptcy estate will no longer be responsible for the maintenance of the mine. However, the committee notes, regardless of the positive decision, that it considers it important that the government closely monitor the environmental impact of the operation and the development of profitability and reacts as quickly as possible to the situation if necessary. The State should also set criteria for the situation in which closure of the mine is preferable to continued operations, especially as the State needs to be prepared for significant additional financing needs. The committee considers it justified that the Board of Directors should be better prepared for alternative solutions to Terrafame Oy, for example by analysing their costs and their regional economic impact. However, it has been stated from the board of directors that the company would be able to make a commercial profit as early as 17-18, but it is nevertheless noted that the low price of nickel and also the decision of the Vaasa Administrative Court make it difficult for the company to acquire private capital at present. The Committee on Finance therefore proposes that Parliament approve the Government's proposal and the supplementary proposal so that the amending budget can enter into force as early as 15.4. — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u96	Let's have a little debut right here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u97	Madam President! This motion also contains an objection from the Social Democrats, in which we once again concern ourselves with the inadequacy of employment appropriations. It is, in fact, extremely sad that there is already quite a few supplementary budgets, which the government is making, and it still does not keep up with the situation as to how much unemployment is being prolonged in this situation and the youth unemployed, the long-term unemployed. These resources are still not being adequately managed and, as a result, economic development is being undermined. President! This also gives a good reason to say that this demonstrates the intransigence of the government's economic policy. Just now, during Question Time, we discussed the brutal new cuts. The weakest are going to cut the level of social security. After all, the reason for this spiral of cuts into which the government has drifted is because the government has neglected measures for growth and employment and employment and employment policy as a whole. This should be the change in the line we expected from the spending limits debate, and it is really sad that the opposite happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u98	Madam President! Mr Viitanen made an excellent speech here, and I ask why the state has money for Winterfell but not for employment. Why is the spike still open and will continue to be open? And then two specific questions on Metsähallitus: Why are state hiking areas still kept in the balance sheet of Metsähallitus' business, and why are these 40,000 hectares of recreational forest from Upper Lapland moved there? Why could it not be that land and water areas belonging to equity, the recreational forests of Upper Lapland and the state hiking areas, could not be in the control, control and control of the public administration unit without a claim for income? This is entirely possible. Why don't you do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u99	Madam President! As far as this strong speech by Mrs Aalto is concerned, I can say that it is true that we have problems with the Winterfell mine. Although this is the case, it is better to assume social responsibility and to improve its functioning. There are clearly two things in sight here. The second is that environmental problems in that area have been taken over. However, they must be taken over by any means necessary. You can't leave the environment unattended. When they failed to do so, we must assume that responsibility now, and we must remember that there are, however, two ways forward. Let us now hope that, on the world market, this price of nickel and metals in general will go up, which would give this business a cover of its own. And the second is, of course, that the Ministry of the Economy is currently negotiating with buyers who would buy this whole business for themselves and go into this productive activity. We should not just look at one day here; we must look at this whole history and bear responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u100	Mr President! Long-term unemployment has risen as much from one year ago as Forssa has residents from a baby to a grandfather. It's actually a huge amount, a huge amount, and it's terrifyingly large. If we look at what we have done in labour policy at the same time, for example, wage-based employment has fallen by more than 40%. So long-term unemployment goes up and wage-based employment goes down. What is currently used is mainly rehabilitative work activities or work trials. Work trials are a good way to go, but rehabilitative work is not needed by far all of those who currently end up in long-term unemployment. The government is planning to make passive security active, and I think that is a good objective. The model determines whether it will bring relief next year or when it comes to implementation. But what is most worrying at the moment is that we are creating more and more people who are driven into structural unemployment and, with a very high probability, also completely out of the labour market. And the government fails to ensure that it does not increase the employment budget. At the same time as wage-based money goes down, the use of labour market training has also decreased. And yet it is precisely the instrument that could be used to respond to structural change. To replace that lost job, people could acquire a new profession and be employed in a new job. Hoskonen said we need to take care of the environment. I agree, but unemployment must also be dealt with. It cannot be thought that the focus is only on jobs
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u101	Madam President! The employment debate has already taken place in the past and it is probably necessary to have this supplementary budget as well. Indeed, this entity — which is determined to balance the state economy, to build a social pact, to carry out major reforms and, at the same time, to take entrepreneurship action — is a very important entity, as Mr Kalli has said here. It creates confidence in the Finnish economy so that people dare to invest, build homes and be active in Finland. This is also a good idea for us to understand — Mr Viitanen, in particular, from this point of view — that this whole is important, to create confidence in the Finnish economy. This short-sighted resistance to savings in the spirit of the opposition does not create it, in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u102	Mr President! The list of socialists was on the table just now, that is, on March 20, 2015, you presented your list of cuts for this parliamentary term. There were 800 million cuts in the cut list of about 3 billion by freezing all the indexes. This 800 million has now shown that when the index does not change, the cut has dried up. Now, in a very responsible manner, I would like to ask the Social Democrats what you are replacing, and since you are announcing how you will cover your election vows for this 800 million and also for the other two billion parts of your 20 March 2015 election pledge. You promised that you would take care of it in the first place during this parliamentary term. In your alternative budget and, for example, in the objection attached to this report, there is not a word about how you intend to deliver on the promises you have made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u103	Madam President! The representative Aalto brought up Terrafame, a former Winterfell, and speculated on why more money is being given to Terrafame. Well, it will not be given more, but there will be an internal transfer, as I am sure you can read clearly from the Committee on Finance. It is very good that the company has been able to carry forward its activities as planned, that jobs are maintained there and that a clear deadline has been set for it to become profitable. Representative Aalto must also know that a possible shutdown would immediately cost even more money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u104	Madam President! Yes, this is about employment in Winterfell. There are currently 590 own employees today and 350 of those who are subcontractors in that area. On the other hand, Talvivaara has today been quite successful in the work where its industrial fund's yield has been improved at the rate that it would already benefit with the 30,000 tons of production per year. Now there is also an improvement in productivity. At present, EUR 11500 will cost production of tonnes, with a view to bringing it to EUR 8500. It appears that if the world market price remains low, it will also be possible to make the company profitable by the end of 2017. Now it is a question of whether we are able to believe in this. If you don't have faith, it'll take the money out of there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u105	Mr President! I think it is very important that we have an honest debate on the future of Terrafame. At the moment, we can say that, according to plan, progress has been made, and in that respect, I think that the speaker who has just spoken was quite right. But even the uncertainties are serious, and we must recognise them here too, and how long we will then continue along the path of always capitalising. It is money to capitalise, and in that respect, of course, this uncertainty in the world price of nickel, the decision of the Vaasa Administrative Authority on the emission pipeline and this final situation of environmental requirements will make this whole picture difficult in terms of how long can be believed. And why do I ask, how long can one believe? Because we had a very difficult debate just now where it became clear that the government was doing additional cuts. Cut more from the poor, just under EUR 1000
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u106	Mr President! It has to be taken into account that whatever you do, it will cost at least 200, preferably perhaps 300 million. If we drive down, we should wait until the summer, when we will get better results from this, whether we are going to act, and then we will have a decision to make perhaps 200 million additional investments there. This EUR 38.5 million, in my opinion, is not exactly the case here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u107	Madam President! The longer that spike is open and the more money is pumped there, the less money will be left for the environment, employment, business and business activities and support for Kainuu people. And yes, this EUR 38.5 million, which starts from Talvivaara Sotkamo Oy's bankruptcy estate to raise Terrafame Group Oy's equity capital, is a transfer of money. That money could have been transferred directly to support the employment of Kainuu people. Its money can be used in many ways, it is still spending money, and this must be taken into account. We have no guarantee of that — neither Mr Rehn nor Mr Stubb, the Minister for Economic Affairs, has been able to convince us — how this company is able to make profit on market terms: the world nickel price, the processes, and to date there has been no mention of Vaasa's administrative right. That window of time keeps narrowing down to private money. The market economy works in a sensible way. This is no longer a market economy, is it, Mr Zyskowicz?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u108	Madam President! I was not prepared for this question but rather asked for the floor to praise the expert speech by Mr Kankaanniemi. The Social Democrats here every day criticise the savings made by the government: yesterday the worst were the savings made in education, today the worst are the savings made in spending limits, and so on. However, before the elections, the Social Democrats, in their electoral ambitions, indicated that they are about to make savings of around EUR 2 billion a year in advance during this parliamentary term. I have asked about these savings of EUR 2 billion, and during Question Time, for example, Mr Rinne referred to their alternative budget, but there are no such savings. I would now like to ask Mr Viitas: when are you going to present these savings of EUR 2 billion that you have promised?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u114	Madam President! Yes, Mr Viitanen's chronic confusion has now passed on to me. In the run-up to the elections, Mr Viitanen, you said that EUR 2 billion in advance and EUR 1 billion in strengthening the revenue side and, later, during the parliamentary term, if necessary, a billion more savings. Now I have asked where the annual savings of EUR 2 billion are. And there's no point in referring to your alternative budget when there's no savings. That's how much people here have been checking it out that they don't have them. And then these speeches that the demos would take less debt than the current government: This government cannot even come up with such a small savings that the demos are not against it. But of course you can pretend to be less indebted when you put money like this, pirate money, then fund everything. And we'll probably make the figures look good when we rob the Bank of Finland and clean up Sitra's balance sheet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u115	Mr President! The government talks a lot about employment, but it does a huge bit on the employment front. This really worries me in this case not only as a Finnish MP but also as a Pirkanmaa and Pirkanmaa representative. Last December, the unemployment rate in Pirkanmaa was 16.4, my hometown of Tampere nearly 19. Almost one-fifth of our city's population is unemployed. The fact that we are short of the money for employment management has a direct impact not only on the situation of people in Tampere, on the situation of the unemployed, but also on the economy of the city. And we really would need more funding for employment management there. At the moment we are receiving more than 5 million less employment care money than we would need because of the number of unemployed people or because of structural unemployment. I very much hope that the government will hear these emergency calls from the provinces as regards the financing of this employment management.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u116	Madam President! It is rather unintelligent to look closely at the old minutes and see what everyone has said, but then let us not remember what has been repeated in this Chamber a few weeks ago. The opposition has commented very strongly before the spending limits debate on the need to invest in infrastructure and thus improve employment in the regions. Now that the government is doing so, it is still doing more than what was in the spending limits — that is, 700 million additional investments are being made, including that in Tampere, which is where we are now going to try to leverage these regional development projects, housing projects and thus improve regional employment — so now it is nothing, and we are criticising the fact that there is not enough money for employment. For example, Lahti’s Southern Ring Road: over 4,000 person-years worked during the construction period, and it is estimated that in the long term 16,000 permanent jobs will increase. It brings a lot of money to the area. It's leaking into people's refrigerators. This spring, no new bicycles will be bought for children with that money, but one year from now it will be bought, and that will improve the well-being in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u117	Mr President! As a Member of Parliament in Tampere, I have certainly expressed my satisfaction that the government adhered to the letter of intent made during the previous term of government, so that the Tampere tram received a 30% contribution. I am very pleased with this as a Tampere decision-maker, a delegate and a representative of Parliament. But what I was talking about was the budget for employment management. Pirkanmaa has received more than 5 million less than what our unemployment rate and the management of our structural unemployment would require. Every year the City of Tampere has increased its own funding for employment management because we recognise and recognise that this problem is really serious, not only from the point of view of the city but also of these people. But we also need the pay subsidies from the centres. We need funding from there so that we can manage this whole package of employment management. And unfortunately, here on the employment side, the government has not given us the opportunity to make this policy, which we now need.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u118	Mr President! So we have almost 20,000 more long-term unemployed than we had a year ago. When you ask about these employment funds from all over Finland, the messages are similar from all sides: there is far too little employment money in relation to the need. Well, then these means of survival in this situation are different. In my own province of North Karelia, for example, there is a great deal of reflection about the granting of pay subsidies, and some of those who need or benefit from it do not receive that pay subsidy. For example, pay subsidies could be used much more for associations if they had the budget — there would be work. And so the question is: how can we afford to drive people permanently outside the labour market in this society?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u119	Mr President! Fortunately, next week, on Tuesday, the government will publish employment and entrepreneurship packages, which will respond to these very issues and explain what has been decided in the spending limits debate. It is very good that our passive unemployment allowance system is being actively introduced and that the unemployed have easier access to work and to the right jobs. It is very good that the government is now working hard to create the right jobs in the business world in which these unemployed people can be employed and not to pass people and more and more to prolong unemployment. This is precisely the problem in Finland when our employers and employees do not meet here. With regard to Winterfell and the present Terrafame, I could still say that where are the companies, in particular the mining jobs in which our miners and miners would then immediately be employed with these appropriations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u120	Madam President! Now that we are talking about whether Terrafame is a market economy, I must say it is. For 60 years there will be the nickel you dig for a thousand people a year, or 60,000 man - years. That means 3 billion. If we are talking about this 38.5 million, then it is worth the time for the state to finance it to see in the summer whether these things are moving in the direction we believe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u121	Madam President! Congressman Zyskowicz, have you become a socialist? You are prepared to put money into a company that is unable to explain how its operations can be made profitable on market terms, whose operations are still dependent on the Vaasa Administrative Court, the product of which is not even profitable to sell, whose processes are not guaranteed to function without even private investors to invest in. What kind of market economy is this, Mr Zyskowicz?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u122	Madam President! Representative Aalto, I am not a socialist and even less a Communist, unlike many of the Greens who in my youth, when they too were young, admired barbed wire paradises and supported communism. Many of them are now green. But I'm glad it's gone for the better. As far as Winterfell is concerned, it is expensive for taxpayers in all situations. Now that there is a time when we will see whether there are any conditions for this mine to operate in a profitable way, which could be of interest to various parties, it is certainly not reasonable today to give the mine a death sentence. As has been said here, let us see for a while whether the mine has the conditions for profitable activities. Then it is time for conclusions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u123	Mr President! I will return to the promises made by the Social Democrats. Overall, it amounted to EUR 15 billion in March, of which EUR 1 billion in tax increases and EUR 3 billion in expenditure cuts, and EUR 2 billion in expenditure cuts right at the beginning of the parliamentary term and EUR 1 billion in spring 2017. Then what does this contain? 400 million for business, 800 million for index freezing, 270 million for education and so much for secondary education, which the government does not cut as much as you ask. You would cut 250 million out of social security for employment. So employment and social security for the unemployed EUR 250 million. - Yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u126	Mr President! I think he's a congressman. On the canvas peninsula, it's just your own papers where they're read. Let us continue with this employment, which really is the backbone of the welfare state, which we are all concerned about. It is great that the government, for example, is putting pressure on these infrastructure projects, as the opposition has suggested. Or it is great that this passive conversion of unemployment benefit into active is being done, as the opposition has also suggested. But when we come to this employment budget, it is hard to imagine — here in Question Time, too, the Prime Minister said that long-term unemployment needs to be reduced — what is it to be reduced by other than these support measures, which are being implemented specifically with the employment budget? Representative Marin there well proved what the situation is in Pirkanmaa, for example. To this end, employment funds are needed, have an impact and can explicitly reduce this long-term unemployment and reduce its duration, thereby also providing considerable savings in central government finances. And here you do nothing at all, you sit perfectly still. Now there's something else that should happen besides putting money in some Winterfell.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u127	And then Mr. Hoskonen. — There will be a few more moments of this debate and then, of course, Mr Kalli will have the last speech, and then we will start with Mr Uotila, but now it is Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u128	Madam President! In his own speech during Question Time, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä outlined the way in which we will be able to break this unemployment peak and, above all, put an end to debt at this stage. That's the most important part of this game that we finally get to live with our own money so we don't have to live in debt. We can't afford to live on debt anymore. Every year, we pay about the same amount of unemployment as this country currently incurs. This cycle has to be cut off. Prime Minister Sipilä has shown the government how to do this. So now we have to stay on the road and be patient and stop all the unnecessary intimidation in the world, because it will lead to nothing other than a fall in Finland's credit rating, an increase in interest rates and an increase in central government spending. This is the way ahead if we do not do what Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, said. And then on the subject of Touko Aalto's comment on the fact that he said in his speech that the administrative court has again been allowed to stay. I think we should take this red tape out so we can have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u129	Mr President! I'm a little confused about this conversation. The Socialist alternative budget will be re-tabled, and I hope, on the basis of this debate, that the President will take this ear behind it and will be happy to take his own time to do so. But I would like to see what the government does. In Finland, the government currently has power, and it would be great to pay attention to what the government does. There is not much confidence in the tuning after this spending limits debate, nor in the amending budget that is on the table. Yes, we should be able to strengthen confidence in the functioning of this country. Employment: think about it, we have half a million unemployed and nothing feels like it. There is nowhere in the amending budget, nor in the spending limits debate, to be able to help these people who are going to be unemployed. This is, in my opinion, a cold policy. This is really cold politics. And then they cut more. Although it was promised not to operate, the poorest are cut off. It was said that there is no cuts in education. But not when the education was cut off, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u130	Mr President! I have to appreciate the investment projects that are in this government spending limits debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u133	Madam President! The problem here is that the poor state finances all the poor: so-called students and pensioners, others. If the cup is empty, you can't take it. Only then will you have to cut — a poor country cuts when there is nothing. This is where we're supposed to get the investment started. And what do you do it with? Is the money man gonna be there to be the first one to socialize everything?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u136	Madam President! Representative Ben Zyskowicz, who just left the door, and the rest of the government claims that they are not socialists, but they speak like socialists. What a socialist government!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u139	Madam President! I myself have been there in Winterfell 20, maybe 25 times, and earlier faith has been tested, of course, but when new leadership comes into it, and especially since I know that this new management is someone who will find out if it is worthwhile or not, I think that when they say there is a career that is planned and will be profitable, we should at least believe in it until next summer. — And this talk of socialism seems to me to be worthless here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u140	Madam President! As far as Winterfell is concerned, the Suutari is well aware of it, but it is worth keeping that mine up for so long that it can be sold, and there will be some money for that at the moment. Eija-Riitta Korhola had a good article on wind power support. The aid that is costing taxpayers at the moment would make up for all these cuts. This is the green policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u141	Mr President! I cannot help but wonder how indifferent this government is to unemployment. This supplement to the draft amending budget is now under discussion, and I wonder why there is a total lack of pay subsidies. Why not add an amending budget to pay subsidies? In other words, the government imposes responsibility on individuals, and people themselves should solve unemployment when the SDP believes that the state should be in the process of solving the problem of unemployment and that the state cannot withdraw its responsibility and abandon people to their own devices. Unemployment is, in our view, more a failure of society than an individual failure, and it is known how quickly young people, for example, get excluded when they become unemployed. In other words, wage support, employment is undisputed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u142	Two more replies, Mr Jarva and Mr Kalli, and then we go to the list of speakers. You all have the floor, and then you can tell us what you think.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u143	Mr President! If we want to talk about this employment specifically in the context of this amending budget, then if we can wait until next Tuesday, we will have pay subsidies, and we will have to work on these various aspects of employment to promote this employment. And if there were really 100,000 new unemployed in the last period, I would not dare to make the present government feel guilty about this. Still in connection with this Winterfell, the present Terrafame: The credibility of these shutdown speeches is a long way off. None of the opposition's arguments have come from the fact that this company is being driven down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u146	Mr President! This debate may have been more than the spending limits debate and less the budgetary debate on which this debate is based. Why is Terrafame capitalized? Because it will be given a chance until the summer and at the same time will ensure the employment of the people there. Then there's another thing. There are criticisms here as to why this amending budget has not allocated a budget for managing employment. That is, of course, an appropriate question, but this is where the government has clearly assumed that only after the debate on the spending limits, possibly in the actual amending budget in June, will we return to this matter. And I'm sure this conversation is a food for it. I have not experienced any more criticism of this amending budget in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u147	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u148	Madam President! Despite the comments made just now by the esteemed chairman of the committee, the main weakness and weakness of this amending budget is that it does not react quickly to the bad unemployment situation, as has been said many times here. A year ago, when the government had the opportunity to give its first amending budget, then the opposition parties, the SDP, the Greens, made a united protest in the Committee on Budgets, whose main message was that unemployment should be responded to. The amending budgets are precisely those that can and must respond to the situation in the budget year in question and, in this case, to the difficult employment situation. One of the things that has been said here many times is how the number of long-term unemployed really is at a level of 19% higher than one year ago. The Left Alliance's objection includes a proposal for a rapid demand for a new additional employment budget. This employment situation is our key message in this protest. Another point to which we refer in our protest, and also to which we have proposals in the same way as many other opposition parties, the Greens and the SDP, relates to Metsähallitus. The Forest Government Act has not yet been ratified by the President of the Republic. European Parliament Mrs Kyllönen has also had this debate with the President of the Republic, just because she has received a message twice from the Commissioner responsible for Europe that no competition directive requires a change in the organisation of Metsähallitus. That is why we also object to the proposals for these balance sheet items, with 40000 hectares of Upper Lapland recreational forests, 361,000 hectares of Upper Lapland natural economy areas being placed on the balance sheet of public administrative tasks and camping areas forming part of the balance sheet of public administrative tasks of other equity. But then, Mr President, this Winterfell. You can be quite sure, ladies and gentlemen, that when I come from industry and I come from shipyards, I think it is very important that both Finnish metals, minerals and green gold, wood, are processed in this country and that industry is doing well. But this situation in Winterfell is quite simply the case — and I believe that the President-in-Office of the Chamber, Mr Juhantalo, in his own speech, will convince it — that the experts in committee were also genuinely of the same opinion in the hearing of that section. Some still believe that perhaps in the longer term, perhaps within a few years, there can be profitable action and there are prospects for the future. But a very large, significant number of experts believe that this is a hopeless case. Yes, my heart is torn by the conclusion that it is a hopeless case. This means, as the committee's report has also said, that there has been quite a rapid increase in the speed of the roll-off process and, at the moment, even an improvement in the yield, but yes, the money that has been burned up early, the taxpayers' money. They have run out, and that is why we need extra capital. The honest answers of the experts were that the request for additional money would come before the summer. Is it 100, 150, 200 million, it's coming and it's not going to be there. When we talk about further investments, we talk about hundreds of millions again. It's true that it's gonna cost you to get out of here. It costs 300 million, but it is still ahead of us if — and I am quite sure — there are many reasons why we cannot achieve a viable operation. It is the problem of the process, it is the environmental problem, it is the problem of nickel on the world market, and it is still a legal problem here. If, even in the medium term, it was possible to obtain a profitable mine from Winterfell as a mine, then the State should not seek any external fund investors, foreign capital for that cake. Then we should put up with the loss and wait for it to be profitable and start to generate results from that mine at a later stage if it is able to operate in an environmentally friendly and profitable way even in the longer term, but unfortunately there is no such prospect. The comments made in a different way by the Left, the Greens and the SDP on Winterfell are in such a way that it is a rather desperate situation. Our statement assumes that we will stop pushing taxpayers' money, work on Kainuu's employment by other means and draw conclusions, as many experts have said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u149	Madam President! Before I continue this discussion about Winterfell and Terrafame Group Oy, I would also like to say something important that has already been discussed in this Chamber many times, and this is Metsähallitus. I would also like the chairman of the committee to make a few comments on this. Perhaps you can ask for a reply, and perhaps the President-in-Office will acknowledge that. The question is: Why are these state hiking grounds?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u152	That was strong talk! — Next, Mr Juhantalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u153	Madam President! I only touch this issue of Terrafame — did I say it wrong? First of all, Mr Uotila said quite correctly that there was not really such an intermediate expert on this issue of Terrafame, either—or. And pretty tight on both lines there are either—or-humans. So either—that in that positive sense is, of course, represented first of all by the board of directors, whose chairman said so strongly that he believes like Santa Claus in his horns for his success. And then, in a negative sense, there were professor-level men who recommended immediate closure. Not everyone was in favour of immediate closure, but they were in favour of closure. And one of the professors was also of the opinion that this is promising — this ore, which is poor ore, and this method is actually the only way to separate it from nickel — and is one that will work. Then find out who the layman is. It depends very much on a person’s attitude. Industrial activities and business, depending on the sector, require a long-term approach. And unfortunately, mining is a very wave-like, long wave movement. Finland has made many mistakes. It is precisely by the zeal of the representatives that many things have been sold and interrupted by defeat, which has later proved to be a huge success. Of course, those losses have been made on the individual side. However, in order to describe how diverse my section dealt with this issue, it is worth reading the draft report and the report on Terrafame: "In order to raise the capital of TerrafameGroupinoma, Talvivaara Sotkamo Oy’s ownership of the bankruptcy estate was transferred to Terrafame Oy, which is wholly owned by the State through Terrafame Group Oy on 15 August 2015. For the purpose of operations, Terrafame Oy’s capitalisation was granted EUR 209 million in the 2015 amending budgets. EUR million and the appropriations previously allocated under the 2016 Draft Amending Budget are sufficient to sustain mining activities until the end of April 16 and therefore an additional allocation is necessary. Now proposed EUR 38.5 million EUR 100 million in the first amending budget for 2015 would have been saved. an appropriation of EUR 1 for combating environmental damage caused by the bankruptcy of Talvivaara Sotkamo Oy. The public investigation is still ongoing, but the costs will be limited as the bankruptcy estate will no longer be responsible for the maintenance of the mine." "The committee considers that the proposal is justified by the fact that, In August 2015, a concrete target was set for the next two years, in addition to maintaining environmental safety, the consolidation of operations and making Terrafame Oy’s economic development in the right direction. The Board of Directors estimates that Terrafame Oy’s cash flow is positive during the 2017-2018 period. The conditions for commercially viable mining are currently significantly undermined by the low world market price of nickel. On the other hand, negotiations with private donors are under way. The possibility of expanding the ownership base is influenced, among other things, by the decision still under consideration in the Vaasa Administrative Court on the use of the Nuasjärvi demolition pipe. " "The Committee welcomes the consistent aim of the Stateowner to ensure environmental safety and continue its Private funding must also be actively sought in such a way that it is advantageous to the State. The situation of the mine involves significant risks for the State, in particular due to the low price level of nickel and uncertainties related to the winding-up of the mine and the incomplete management of the production process. The committee therefore considers it important for the government to closely monitor the environmental impact of the operation and the development of profitability and to react as quickly as possible if necessary. The State should also set criteria for the situation in which closure of the mine is preferable to continued operations, especially as the State needs to be prepared for significant additional financing needs. The committee considers it justified that the Government should better prepare for alternative solutions to Terrafame Oy, for example by analysing their costs and their regional economic impact." It's going a little over time, but I'll be back from that spot. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : The President of the Section could perhaps have gone on but — (Kauko Juhantalo: I'd love to!)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u157	Mr President! We Social Democrats have three statements to add to this economic assessment that we are making. The first relates precisely to the employment situation raised here in the 45-minute debate, the concern that there is still no such increase in the amending budget. As Mrs Aalto said earlier, we have had a coherent line of cooperation with the Left Alliance and the Greens, in which we have demanded and required that this issue be put right. And we will continue to do so as long as the government, hopefully at some point, realises that the cycle of cuts will only deepen, the recession will continue, the bad things will continue, if not now, here and now, there will be employment measures, here and now, measures to improve employment and employment budgets. Here, among other things, Mr Filatov's debut gave some rather gloomy readings and gave a good description of the situation. This concern is in our hearts, and it is big, and I can imagine that today the Finnish unemployed person is also very, very worried. And because these employment measures have been neglected, that is why we are in a spiral of cuts, and that is why we have received bad news about the budget debate, which is to say that, contrary to all promises, there will be further cuts and further cuts from those who are weaker. It was a bit unfortunate, President, that during Question Time both Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Soini failed to answer the questions that were put to them about keeping promises, because that is, however, a matter of political confidence. They were making quotes...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u160	Mr President! Everyone understands that in order to improve the employment situation, job creation is the most important thing. Nevertheless, we must not forget the rest of the treatment of unemployment. In particular, the increase in long-term unemployment is worrying. There were nearly 20,000 more long-term unemployed in February than one year ago. Unemployment among young people has also increased. It is particularly worrying that there are more young people who have been unemployed for more than three months than one year ago. In the case of young people, we know that after three months of unemployment, employment will become more difficult and, as a result, the risk of exclusion will also increase considerably. The number of activation measures, such as paid employment, labour market training, work trial and self-study, was 6,500 lower than one year ago. Employment services provided by the intermediate labour market are a key element of the employment service system for people who are difficult to employ. Intermediate labour markets provide services supporting labour participation and transitions to the open sector, as well as subsidised jobs. Employment services in the intermediate labour market are often criticised for inefficiency due to the low level of transition to the open sector. However, the measure of efficiency used by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, i.e. employment in the open labour market at the lowest possible cost, is not sufficient. The effectiveness of services in respect of paid employment relationships must also be assessed from the perspective of work and functional capacity. Not all long-term unemployed people are rehabilitated into an open labour market, but the aim must then be to enable them to feel that they are a significant part of society. Thanks to pay support, this is possible for many people. In such a case, the wage subsidy is also part of the active and inclusive social security mentioned in the Government Programme. The government's cuts in employment appropriations have increased inequality among the unemployed. Regionally, emphasis is placed on the employment of the various groups and even on contrasting those in difficult labour market situations. In addition to the place of residence, the availability of services is increasingly affected by the stage of the year in which a person becomes subject to employment services. There will be no resources for the rest of the year, and this government apparently does not want to grant them in the amending budget. The government has reduced and continues to reduce employment appropriations, and this has led to customers being divided into those to which effective measures are targeted and those who become marginalised — or, in my opinion, it would be better to say: permanently excluded from working life. Mr President! Last season, a report on the follow-up to the municipal trials conducted under the leadership of Lauri Ihalainen has appeared and its conclusions state that the experiment must be continued urgently, as the results of the experiments were cost-effective, especially from the perspective of the long-term unemployed in terms of life management and employment. For example, in Lieksa, North Karelia, the experiment clearly demonstrated savings for the municipality and society. Minister Lindström has called for these effective and effective forms of employment, and I therefore wonder why no decision has yet been taken on the continuation of the municipal experiment. Mr President! I will be very interested to wait for Minister Lindström to come out of the closet next week on employment issues, as he himself said during Question Time himself. In particular, I look forward to hearing how he intends to promote the employment and assistance of the long-term unemployed so that we do not push people out of society for nothing and permanently and outside the labour market. I hope you're a minister. Lindström's thinking about the employment of the long-term unemployed is not the same as Sampo Terho, the chairman of the Group of Finns, during last week's Question Time, when he said that trick employment is pointless. This attitude certainly does not resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u161	Mr President! After this amending budget, central government debt will increase to around EUR 5.4 billion this year, or approximately EUR 105 billion. During the last parliamentary term, the government took EUR 19.7 billion in debt directly. Then it cumulatively cut the central government shares of municipalities by a total of EUR 5 billion, and the municipalities were in debt from EUR 13 billion to EUR 18 billion during the last parliamentary term, thus increasing the public debt for the state and municipalities by EUR 25 billion. Moreover, during the last parliamentary term, the previous governments sold state property worth some 3.3 billion dollars — including the famous Caruna, for example, was here, and the customers are now paying for it somewhere. In addition, due to government measures, omissions, the renovation debt of roads and buildings increased by around one billion. After all, it is not growing now that the government has changed transport policy, among other things, so that the debt of correction is reduced. Thus, with these measures, public finances were in actual debt of almost EUR 30 billion last season, or just over EUR 7 billion per year. Now the government is certainly not cutting the central government's shares and reducing the correction debt and, despite this, is taking on some EUR 5.4 billion of new debt this year and even less in the years to come, which means that a truly drastic change in public finances has taken place. We recognise that it has been particularly painful because of these austerity measures, but it cannot be thought that we are living in the way we did in the last parliamentary term, that we are taking debt and letting everything go. In addition, structural reforms have been carried out, the competitiveness pact is on the way, forced laws have been withdrawn, structural reforms, including social protection, are on the way. Mr President! This reflects the fact that the Sipilä—Soin Government is in possession of issues, decisions are being made and the economy is changing, and also in the economy, employment is becoming more marked. Despite this huge indebtedness, over 100,000 new unemployed people became unemployed during the last parliamentary term, which means that the result was really bad on the basis of where the Sipilä government had to start work. Mr President! What did I say about the Social Democrats' election promises in March last year, they are true, I read them in the original texts: index checks for 800 million, and where are they? There's nothing there. Reductions in education and employment of over 500 million. Well, that's it. I hope the Social Democrats will be a little more specific about what they really offer as an alternative. Mr President! Employment appropriations ran out last year on the basis of the Rinne and the Ihainen budget already in May-June. We are now in April, we still have that money for this year's budget, but of course the situation will be more difficult in the future when the budget is dwindling. But, unlike the previous parliamentary term, Minister Lindström has promised, and today, last time, measures to rebuild employment and business in this country. Let us wait in peace until next Tuesday and next Tuesday, and we will have these measures that will create new, productive jobs that will only give us healthy economic growth — not that money is being transferred and debt is being taken out of hand and do nothing. We've finished that road. Now we need those reforms and they are on the way. Mr President! As far as Metsähallitus is concerned, the law has been passed, and it is no longer worth talking about today. Terrafame, Winterfell is a painful thing. The Finns of Peru are very critical of the line that is now being dictated by necessity. We haven't driven Terrafame or Winterfell into that situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u162	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Budgets, which is now under discussion, on the supplementary budget, is very interesting. This debate, both now and during Question Time, which was the subject of these employment debates and state economic debates, is very good, and this provides the basis for Finland's starting to rise. Firstly, as the report by the Committee on Finance says, this funding for Terrafame is the first task, of course, of ensuring the environment in such a way that no further pollution can occur. It is true that there are problems, but we just have to deal with them. The problem does not end with running away; responsibility must be shouldered. Production has now been started at full power at the mine, and until the summer it will be tested for how it is going to work. As we have just heard, Mr Suutari said that he had been there and said that the messages there are very encouraging that the chemical process works and produces results. To the fact that world market prices for metals are now what they are, there is nothing we can do at the moment. But even we cannot build on the fact that we remain sad and afraid of what is going on here, and by taking on more debt, we are driving ourselves into an ever greater deadlock, which will then no longer be possible. It's important to remember. It must now manage this financing of Terrafame by this means and believe that this will be done in a good way through the right measures, but a little bit of it would be lucky to see the economy going up and the metal prices going up too. This authorisation bureaucracy also emerged in this debate: we are still waiting for the environmental permit from Vaasa's administrative right. In my opinion, this case is a very tangible demonstration of where Finland has gone. This doesn't make any sense anymore. They're all legal discharges, as far as we're concerned. It is true that when you do something, there is always emissions. When you dig the soil with a shovel, it also emits emissions. But if nothing can be done and all permits stand in the administrative court, which does not necessarily understand the heavenly nature of that mining activity, then we must now gradually make a little sense in this country so that the permit processes are speeded up and permits are quickly obtained. It cannot be that one year after the year, investments will stand, people will be on the unemployment card and the opposition will be screaming out loud when there is no work to do. I wonder where that's gonna be. Juha Sipilä's Government's programme has a clear position on cutting red tape, speeding up these processes and getting people to work. It does not make any sense that today we in Finland are being driven from coal to this country, and peat recovery permits are standing in administrative courts and paying out money at a huge rate, 10 billion of energy, and we are participating in the destruction of a large coral reef in Australia, among others, when coal is being driven here. When the conscience is outcast, then this is what the mark is. I would also like the opposition to take a more honest stand on these matters, to take a stand on how these things really are. Of course, if you want to scare people and tell wild stories, that too can be done here at the floor, but there is no point in talking about responsibility on the same day. Mr President! Then more about the government's means of improving employment and combating unemployment. Improving competitiveness would be a way of doing so. Prime Minister Sipilä has said it a thousand times, and everyone in the government has taken it forward in their own areas of responsibility. Reforms are being made, and the creation of a social pact is now probably number one for all of us, so that the social partners can agree on a sensible agreement that will enable us to achieve growth. Here, too, we are in a situation where the D pill is no longer in use, and we have closed it to ourselves by going to the euro. Now we're doing this internal devaluation. Now let us measure the place of the spine, whether the social partners have a responsibility to do this. I very much hope that this will be a success for this social pact and, as a result, we will achieve growth. Of course, expenditure must be cut when it is higher than revenue. It's obvious. Unemployment costs us about EUR 5 billion today. That's about the amount we owe each year. Representative Action In his excellent speech during that debate, the Kankaanniemi proved how this work was done during the previous term of the government. I didn't quite memorize those numbers, but I've got to take those numbers back and get them under control. I was amazed at the size of those numbers. I would like the truth to be said here, too, because, in this situation, we will not be able to move forward. Finland is in a situation where we need to create jobs. That's the government's goal number one. We need to break the debt, as Mr Sipilä said in Question Time. With this programme, when it is successfully implemented, we are in our first goal so that indebtedness can be reversed as early as 2019. That is the right policy for which I want to give all my support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u163	Mr President! I have often spoken in favour of employment appropriations in this Chamber, and I am a minister, when I am in opposition and when I am in the government party, and I will do it again. If we look at what is happening in our employment statistics at the moment, then the number of unemployed is one measure and it has been on the increase. But even more important is the number of young unemployed, the number of long-term unemployed. If we look at this year’s balance, that is, a year back, during this time long - term unemployment has increased by 20,000 persons, that is, more 20,000, a city the size of Forssa or Heinola, from there to the baby. It's not a small number. At the same time, we have more than 40% less employed, we have less in education, almost 13% less in labour market training. Employment measures are often accused of being a trick job, but if we compare it with each other, it can also be said that the current investments in that part of the mine are a trick job. We have no idea how that works. Nevertheless, I think it is worth using that trick if it produces jobs and if it gets the situation right on that side of the mine. But if we look at what is happening now on the labour market side, I would like to think about what Mr Kalli, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, said when he referred to the unfortunate fact that there is no employment money here, but let us return to it in the context of the actual supplementary budget. I do not know whether he referred to more measures to support employment, or whether more resources will also come to this side of the labour market. At the same time, as long-term unemployment increases, we are creating a longer debt of structural unemployment, which is always more difficult to get down. It is always easier to prevent it than to treat it afterwards. If you look at what is done, for example, on that side of the organisation and on the intermediate labour market, they do not necessarily produce long-term employment results for the open labour market, but they do bring a great deal of welfare benefits to this country and prevent exclusion. For example, this money is used to organise single-family activities, which come from living in the home of elderly people. They do yard work there, they create snow there and they also transfer to these industries when they have created their own customer base through that network. These actions will be driven down. People are currently being called off, and they will not get up if more money comes in June or August. They're gone. The same is done, for example, in the home service of veterans who help veterans to survive at home, in the home of their loved ones, in the home of their mates. Such examples could be listed as large as a pile. We have SPR's Container Services, where flea business is carried out, to raise money for international development cooperation, but to train people in the trade sector. These are activities which are now in great danger, not just because of this lack of money, but because of the government's policies. When there is too little money, it has been decided that the activities of associations will no longer be supported through employment subsidies in the same way as in the past. But you should see the two-sided good that's in these. The second option is that it will be these people who will be unemployed for a long time. They are not helped by the fact that we have, for example, a system in which passive unemployment benefit can be used actively, because this form of support does not usually meet them. It is therefore important that we also see the social value that employment policy can have, not just the open value that comes into the open labour market and through business. Well, then, if we look at this municipal relationship and these employment resources, in fact, the fact that the wage subsidies are so low is a major cut in the local government economy, because we have a system that leads to the fact that if the municipalities are not sufficiently able to activate the long-term unemployed, the municipalities will pay a larger share of these costs, the passive costs. The idea of this whole system has been for the government to take care of its own pot. Now the state does not take care of its own pot, which means that this means cutting municipal resources by millions and millions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u164	Mr President! Here the green left is laughing from the forests of Upper Lapland, that they will be used for domestic forest use. The market economy will take care of that, the forests industry does not need. There's no need for a skirmish, no need for the industry, no need for the miners there. It is very much in the south that profitable harvest that is now being carried out, and it always moves southerly and southerly for cost reasons, just so that they can be left alone. There was an expert in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry who said that there are a lot of economic forest areas for recreational purposes. There is no one going to the nature areas at all when they are probably not allowed to go, because they are so protected. And as far as the price of nickel is concerned, all business and commercial activities involve corporate risk. World market prices are throwing, it is in the wood sector as well as in the mining sector. For example, the price of plywood throws away another one in six months, but the company remains involved because it is a long-term activity. In the same way, the end of this Winterfell must be in order for it to be sold, as assumed when prices rise, and so will it be. It is a very effective operation, as Juhantalo here presented. According to Statistics Finland's latest release, the number of employed persons was close on 2.4 million in February of this year, which was 10,000 lower than one year earlier. The employment rate, i.e. the proportion of the employed among persons aged 15 to 64, stood at 66.7 per cent in February. In other words, we have 5.5 million people and less than 2.4 million people employed, and in these statistics all those who have worked an hour a week are counted. Everyone who knows how to count understands that this cannot continue. We simply have too few working people who are paying for an ever-growing non-working group of people. Support for society is usually small. They're always too small for the green left. I certainly do not want to blame the unemployed, the sick, the students and the pensioners, but unfortunately there are those who assume that society will provide. Do people have a sense of responsibility for themselves and their future? Mr President! Yesterday we discussed cuts in higher education and student support here on the intermediate issue. The opposition’s statements probably protested dozens of times that students should take out some loans guaranteed by the state. I do not see it as any boogeyman, although I understand the concerns of young people as to whether there is work to be done after the studies have been completed. But as I said, when a student has to take out a loan, he will focus his studies carefully. He has to take responsibility, and it is also an investment in the future. The scarcity in which students are forced to live is temporary. It usually takes a few years. It's a time you can hold on to with a thinner wallet. Education is an investment in one's own self. In today’s world, education does not automatically guarantee a good job, but it significantly improves opportunities. I'm gonna add that to this last night. There was a person who was 36 years old. Until then, he had studied with government funds, thinking about the next thesis. Never will this person be productive to the state or productive to society if this is how you learn to live, but if you have to take responsibility for that, you have to borrow a little and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u165	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very disappointed that this supplement to the amending budget did not provide money for the management of employment, i.e. wage subsidies. I believe that the constitutional right of citizens to work requires measures and funding from public authorities in such a weak economic period, in particular. The whole welfare state is based on employment as comprehensive as possible and the basic idea is for everyone according to their abilities, according to their needs. If participation in society weakens, the foundation of well-being is shaken. In order to achieve equality and fundamental rights, and to enable full membership and social citizenship of our community, especially for disadvantaged people such as young people, there is a need for positive special treatment. Young people find it most difficult to get the first job, because employers want to employ those who already have work experience. There is no doubt that state subsidies play a key role in the employment of the unemployed, especially young people and the long-term unemployed. From the point of view of the positive effects of the wage subsidy scheme, it is incomprehensible that it is being dismantled both by reducing and redirecting the pay subsidy budget. A change in line with the third sector's wage subsidy would mean almost a complete shutdown of wage support and non-governmental organisations. Job seekers must be considered capable of work. Studies show that young unemployed people are marginalized very quickly. It's been three months of unemployment that makes a young man's life a mess. Unemployed young people are considerably less satisfied than others, both as a whole and in individual areas of life. Especially for young people whose unemployment has been prolonged for more than six months, the satisfaction of life as a whole is weaker. With the economic downturn, more and more young people believe that the number of people excluded from working life will increase permanently. This is understandable, because it is young people who have a particular characteristic of the cyclical sensitivity of participation in the labour force. Employment among young people is particularly affected by downturns. Clearly, more people are concerned about whether there will be work for themselves in the future. Young people whose livelihoods depend on social services are of particular concern. Especially for these young people, who do not yet have experience in working life, wage support offers concrete opportunities to get paid, to maintain mental well-being and physical activity. Young people have experience of participation, cohesion and the management of labour market criteria. All of this is undeniably the acquisition of the necessary experience in working life. Wage support also improves the access of a newly graduated young person to work when the skills of a newly graduated person are not quite sufficient for the job available. Wage support can also support access to apprenticeships when more guidance is needed than usual and the chances of reaching an apprenticeship are otherwise low. Thus, pay support clearly contributes to young people's ability to move forward to a free labour market or to education and training. Young people and the long-term unemployed are not the only beneficiaries of the pay subsidy scheme. There is also an advantage for organisations of general interest under the wage subsidy scheme. It will enable third sector operators to provide services which will contribute to complement municipal services, such as social welfare and health organisations in particular. From these non-profit organisations, the money is not poured into tax havens, but in the form of tax revenue from wages and salaries to the treasury of municipalities and the state. Recent information from third sector organisations speaks harshly. The wage subsidies have stopped right in the early part of the year. The aid is granted only on a selective basis. Its duration is limited to three or six months, when too short a working period is of little use. Aid is granted only to associations engaged in business activities and not at all to associations of general interest. It is quite clear that there is far too little employment money in relation to the need and that we must quickly get an additional budget to avoid a catastrophic situation. The biggest challenge... [First Vice-President Mr Pekkarinen : 5 minutes. A paper has been distributed to the representatives about the rules of the game, and five minutes is the speaking time that is reserved for this. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u172	My final point, ladies and gentlemen, is that our rules of the game are such that, when you have asked for the floor in advance, the maximum time is 5 minutes. But the peculiarity of this rule of the game is that if you ask here in the Chamber to be present after the sitting has begun, then there will be no 5 minute limit. It is recommended, however, that no more than 10 minutes should be allowed. Is this right or wrong, it's another story, but this is the rule of the game. The representative has just acted in accordance with the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u173	Mr President! However, I will probably not use this questionable right of 10 minutes, but just a few words about Winterfell, although I have already mentioned it in my previous speech, about the vision of a few themes: the demolition pipeline, the economy and environmental problems. In the expert hearings of the Committee on Finance, we were told that the winding-up of the Talvivaara mine has gone well and that there have been no environmental problems. However, in the same breath, it was reported that in December more purified waste water had to be discharged into the lakes than the environmental permit allowed. I would call this at least a potential environmental problem. And there is also the fact that the process has been made more effective, more efficient, but money spending is much faster than planned, and that is why there is a need for additional money. This bypass that took place was due to the fact that the permit procedure for the dismantling of Lake Nuasjärvi is still pending before the Vaasa Administrative Court. And there is a problem here that, according to experts, a greater drop in wastewater would be harmful to the lake, but if a greater discharge of wastewater is not granted on the other hand, neither can the well be made profitable and therefore no external financier will be found. That there should be more runs in order to be profitable, and experts say that this does not seem to be a very sustainable environment. Well, then the second point is this bio-dissolving and the environmental problems it causes. The so-called master stone of the Winterfell ore deposit is black shale. The actual product of the mine is nickel and zinc as a by-product, but the black shale also contains sulphide sulphur. When the black shale is crushed for bio-dissolved and is exposed to air and water, sulphuric acid is formed at the same time. Sulphuric acid is needed in order for bio-dissolving to work, but at the same time it causes a major problem in water bodies. And when the scale of the mine is insanely large, there is a lot of black shale in the area as a lohkareena and sepel, so every time it rains, more sulphate - rich, salty water is generated, which must be cleaned before it can be released from the mining area. The black shale there after the ice age grinding in the rock does not leave or release sulphuric acid, but when it is crushed into fractions all the time, every surface of it from that hail causes this release. Biosolvent then as an economic uncertainty: It's new and uncertain. It is not yet possible to determine whether it will work. It is said that now, on the basis of the first months, it looks promising, but we will have to wait many more years for the final answer, because it will take five years for the ore to fall off. We have been told that during the period 2017-2018 cash flow could become positive. When I asked in the hearings whether this is likely to be an average, or is it more likely that this positive change in cash flow will take place later, I did think that the working management would think that it would rather be later than earlier. In order for the mine to become profitable, in addition to the rise in nickel prices, it would be necessary to raise metal concentrations and reduce production costs. In order to increase metal concentrations, additional investments are needed to develop the bio-dissolving process, which in turn increases production costs. This is a difficult equation because biosolvent is too uncertain a method. So, on the other hand, we need more money to make production more efficient, but even in that view it looks pretty bad. Finally, Talvivaara has been an important employer in Kainuu. Every job in the province is worth a lot of money. Now, however, the uncertainties surrounding the operation of the mine are too great for it to be worth continuing. Fortunately, jobs do not disappear overnight. According to experts, a controlled shutdown, costing 300 million, effectively employs between two and three years approximately its staff. But Kainuu now needs specific measures to manage employment and, unfortunately, much more than the continued capitalisation of Winterfell with taxpayers' money must be invented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u174	Mr. Chairman! What Mr Uotila said about the complex operation of the mine, about the content of the rock species and about their reactions is what we heard the experts say, and he quite rightly quoted the information we had there and, as I recall, about the amount of waste water stored there. However, their impact on the waters below is surprisingly modest and small, but there is in any case, and then there is the danger, if there is the enthusiasm that immediately closes, that after 20 to 30 years this risk of damage will only increase, because that is where the waters are. And if a year like this happens by accident a couple of years ago that water is coming quite cruelly, no matter what measures have been taken, we are in trouble. The fact that Mr Uotila represents the Left Alliance here, and Mr Hakkarainen, also the Finns of Finland, is a very good thing. They both have a long-standing experience in such industries, the shipbuilding industry and the wood processing industry, which has learned that business in these sectors, for example, is very long-term. Among other things, Mr Uotila's industry, the shipbuilding industry, is one where, at times, huge amounts of state money have been needed through various bodies, and I remember the same kind of debate when the shipbuilding industry in Finland is not worth it, it must be stopped immediately, that no more money is invested there. Let it be this day, when you think in a different way that great things are being built in Finland and that the shipbuilding industry is producing well and offering work. Similarly, Mr Hakkarainen's area, where he needs to learn a long period of cyclicity and in some products rapid price fluctuations, including what he said about plywood. Both of them have been taught to take it that way calmly, factually but peacefully, that life in industry and industry is often different from that in this policy, where a few quick wins and quick solutions are sought, as usual. With the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, I have firmly come to believe that this bio-dissolving method will be successful, i.e. in poor ore-poor but abundant terrain, perhaps the only way we can get a good and productive thing for Finland, but it will require long patience with mutual trust. In particular, after listening to the company's current board of directors' proposals, some of the experts' proposals from there, I was convinced that this was an opportunity. But, admittedly, when you hear professors and people who say that this is all humbug and the money goes right into Kankkula well, believe it. But now I do not really trust in such zeal and zeal and the value of idyllic living as the representative Aalto, who here firmly proclaimed his own doctrine.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u175	Mr. Speaker! We just missed a little five-minute speech, which should have been 10 minutes in the middle, or we are in the middle of something. As far as Winterfe is concerned, I am not a member of the Section for Economic Affairs, but the entire Committee on Finance heard experts and, admittedly, there is such a difficult solution here. The Board of Directors has made its own statements and proposals that this EUR 38.5 million appropriation, which has been included in this year's budget, will be transferred to share capital, thus safeguarding the company's operations for a few months. Of course, as a representative of the Government Party, I trust in the government's judgment and accept this, but I look forward to it, and I am sure we are all waiting for the decision of the Vaasa Administrative Court, which is extremely important to this whole issue. Furthermore, there is of course a need for constant monitoring of the price development of nickel, and there is a hope that it will be slightly upward in the near future. Of course, this method, the bio-solvent, is also interesting. I would understand that it is a very inexpensive way, if it works, and we did get the assurance that it is now working and has been working throughout the winter for several Aumas. If, in fact, these experiences continue to be good during this spring and in view of the future, it is wise to wait for this decision of the Vaasa Administrative Court and then for these experiences to be experienced by the company itself. Or, as I said earlier, the Finns of Peru require the government to follow with infinite care and diligence and to continue to look at this situation and development in Winterfell, Terrafame, and to evaluate them very calmly, as the Committee on Finance did. In other words, we accept this, but we are critical and we will follow very closely and expect that the explanations will be careful when further decisions are considered. Mr President! In my previous speech, when I went through the government debt figures for the last period in detail — the increase in direct government debt of EUR 20 billion, the increase in government debt of EUR 5 billion due to government measures, the sale of state productive wealth of EUR 3.3 billion and the increase of the correction debt of almost EUR 1 billion — the fact that some seven years ago there were EUR 11 billion in the state treasury and there is probably some EUR 5 billion today, that is to say a billion in the annual cash register. So that 30 billion is the balance that generated new debt to public finances during the last parliamentary term, and it is so fierce that we cannot continue on that path. Already, the government has tackled them with adjustment measures. There can be a difference of opinion about targeting them when they have been cut and the good people have made it too easy — we admit it and regret it, but there are compromises in the government, and some values are different from those of the True Finns, for example. However, in my view, during the previous term of government, the government was very irresponsible and resulted in 100,000 new unemployed, who are now, Mr Filatov, mainly long-term unemployed. The unemployed who were born there have fallen into long-term unemployment. And, indeed, your tricks were not in all respects worth continuing, but I am not saying that, for example, wage support would be a trick job. It is valuable work, but economic realities must be taken into account, and for future generations, for example, it is our responsibility to get the state and the entire public finances in order, on a sound basis, thereby improving employment, and to secure the future of future generations and of today's young people and students, that they will have work in the future when they graduate, whatever their age. In other words, on this path, the government is determined, and it is a completely different policy from the debt policy of the last parliamentary term. This is responsible. It is a pleasure to support it in that sense, even though it has painful places. Mr President! To these promises made by the Social Democrats on 20 March 2015: They announced at the time, under the leadership of the finance minister, Rinte, that 400 million will be cut from economic aid, that, in addition to the cuts made during the previous parliamentary term, 270 million will be cut from the main category of the Ministry of Education, which will be allocated to secondary education — a drastic cut — then comes to employment-supporting social security reforms, cut 250 million. I would like Mr Filatov to be opened up to what your model contains in terms of a reduction in social security for employment, which you proposed at the beginning of this parliamentary term, a year or so ago. You then called for a reduction of 250 million in administrative and ic measures, and 250 million in cuts in social and financial reforms immediately in advance, along with a number of other measures. I expect you at some point to find out what these meant and how your alternative budget would have reacted to these promises and what would have happened if, for example, employment appropriations had been cut and secondary education had been cut so drastically. The Sipilä Government does not cut nearly as much as you suggested in your election vows.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u176	Ladies and gentlemen! These are still rules of the game — it is necessary to find out how they are going from time to time: this speech by Mr Kankaanniemi, now that it had been requested, was allowed to take more than 5 minutes. But Mr Kankaanniemi, your previous speech was, according to our list, a pre-request, which would be five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u177	Mr President! From that Winterfell, Juhantalo really well compared it to the shipyard industry, Uotila's industry too. If this is the way it's gonna be, my common sense says it's gonna cost you a fortune.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u180	Mr President! Right here in my place. I very much appreciate the fact that Mr Juhani’s speech appreciated the experience I have with the shipbuilding industry, particularly that of shipbuilding. However, I would remind you that it is true that since I went to the shipyard myself at the age of 17 in 1972, there have been increases and falls in the shipbuilding industry. And it is also true that society has supported the shipbuilding industry. It has supported it in the form of export guarantees for Finnvera, i.e. the guarantee of financing during the construction of ships. It has supported it in the form of aid for shipyards authorised by the EU, since then in the form of environmental aid and so on, and sometimes in other ways. But as far as Winterfell is concerned, the situation is different. If Winterfell were to be a sector-specific cyclical pit, a lack of demand or a temporary fall in product prices, I would be willing to believe in a bright future and that it would be worthwhile to continue, even though it is very much and very fast to do so as a loss-making activity of taxpayers' money at the moment. But even if these problems related to the price of nickel and other such problems related to the economy and the world economy are eliminated, there are two major risks for the shipbuilding industry compared to Winterfell, and they have also been identified by experts. These risks are environmental risks and the process risks associated with this bio-dissolving process. And, unfortunately, these risks are so great that, in this situation, I have to turn my thumbs down as an industrial defender and even as a defender of the mining industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u181	Mr President! As far as this increase in long-term unemployment is concerned, this increase has unfortunately taken place in the very course of this government. And every time unemployment increases, the risk of long-term unemployment increases, becomes higher and problematic. This rate of growth has accelerated because unemployment has risen and, at the same time, employment appropriations have been cut. And here comes this sore equation. In fact, the OECD and the IMF have also wondered why Finland is cutting off active labour market policies in precisely such circumstances. In fact, I asked for the floor because I am not sure whether I should support these objections which have been made to this report today or tomorrow, so I would like to state here that I support the wording of Mr Viitanen's objection to Section 30 and the wording of his objection to Section 32, as well as the wording of his objection to the general arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u182	Thank you for that. It seems that, when that same thing is included in the report, it will be enough to make that proposal tomorrow. But this is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u183	Mr President! I will also comment briefly on this capitalisation of Terrafame Group Oy for EUR 38.5 million. My point of view on the future prospects of the company is critical, it must be acknowledged, but it must also be remembered that we are between wood and bark in relation to the mine and that even closing it would not be a cheap solution and not necessarily environmentally friendly. As Mr Juhantalo said earlier, the hearings of the Section for Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Affairs of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy produced many different views, opinions and opinions from experts, which were sometimes almost totally opposed to the future, such as water balance, bio-dissolving and nickel price developments, so it is almost impossible to predict the future of Winterfell very accurately. Nevertheless, as Mr Hakkarainen has just said, it would also be in the interests of taxpayers to get the company ready for sale. Of course, the spike cannot be open indefinitely and these company jobs cannot be maintained at any price. In its report, the Committee on Finance now requires the state to set clear criteria for when closing the mine would be a better option than continuing to do so. The delay in the decision of the Vaasa Administrative Court has made it difficult to assess the situation, but hopefully the future decision will provide more clarity for the future of the mine, whether it is in the face of better conditions for action. This is certainly not an unambiguous issue, and I can well understand the criticism that has come from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u184	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u185	Mr President! The proposal introduces provisions on the recognition of beef products and certain arable crop producer organisations in the Act on the organisation of the market in agricultural products. It is clear from the arguments put forward by the Government that, according to a primary production survey carried out by the Competition and Consumer Protection Office, the bargaining power of farmers in the food chain is generally very weak. This has been the case for years, and there is no relief in sight. This is also confirmed by the fact that many farms in Finland are still small and the grocery market is highly concentrated. It is difficult for a small person to compete with large shops and must sell the products to those they buy. There is a clear imbalance of bargaining power between farmers and the grocery trade and between farmers and industry. In its report, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has called for the preparation of commercial legislation in Finland which will enable producer organisations to operate more widely. This would be a significant development in the future in terms of negotiating power and industrial restructuring. At present, it is possible in Finland to adopt producer organisations in the fruit and vegetable sector and in the milk products sector, and this should be extended in accordance with the committee's report, irrespective of the type of production. The position of primary production in the market must be strengthened in all directions of production. One of the things that we discussed in committee and which I would like to mention separately is the dual role of trade in marketing. Through its dual role, trade is both a buyer for industry and a competitor through its own products and brands. In such a situation, trades will be able to exploit the information provided to them by industry on genuine branding in their own priced brands. Exploiting is done in such a way that after the industry has developed its new branded product, it makes a copy of it immediately in parallel and gets the cheapest manufacturer in the world. In this way, the store will pay for all product development and all the associated risks with the Finnish food chain and will also take note of the best shelf space and advertising space in its shop. Fortunately, there are operators coming to the market all the time, through which Finnish food can be passed by the big retail chains for consumers. Everyone in this Chamber will certainly understand that Finnish food and related jobs and their economic impact cannot be safeguarded unless food production on farms pays off. Finland may not be able to compete at the price of any industry, but with the quality of food. Consumers will certainly benefit from price reductions in the short term, but the longer price reductions continue, the harder it will be for farms to invest and bring new products to the market. This will certainly also affect employment in rural areas, rural development and land-based living.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u186	Mr President! This issue is so close to the values that are really important to us: access to food, its price, the employment of the food economy and many other basics. We know that at the moment agriculture is in almost the worst of its history for many industries, and that is why the conditions included in the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry are now serious. It is necessary to require action from the government, which has also been the subject of discussion in the Finnish Parliament. In the context of the spending limits decision, something came up, but it adds that our own national food economy will remain: production which produces raw materials for processing and for this production chain, distribution and trade, as well as high-quality domestic food for consumers. In fact, you can say that domestic clean food is one safety factor for the whole population. If the people do not have their own food production, the whole chain, especially in such a country as we live in — a northern, relatively cold country — the nation is not safe. That is why this issue is exceptionally important. I would like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for raising these issues in this context, and I hope that there will be a more in-depth debate here in Parliament on the agriculture and food sector at some point. With agricultural policy as an EU policy, too little can be done here to discuss this really important issue and the plight of agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u187	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u188	Mr President! So we are dealing with investor legislation and updating it as a whole that meets the requirements of the Constitution. This bill, which has been adopted by the government, clarifies regulation and improves the safety of people working in the explosion work and, in general, the general safety associated with the explosion work. I wanted to briefly present this report because the committee made a few amendments to this law. The committee has produced a unanimous report and considers it necessary and appropriate to adopt this law. So what we are talking about here is that up to now we have regulation made up of an investor and the regulations adopted by the Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and very often it is the case that some of the things that have previously been in the regulations are now being moved to the level of the law. These regulations have provided for the conditions for obtaining this certificate and the issuing authorities and the training required to be able to be an input. And then, again, there are the basic provisions in the Act on Investigatorships on how to obtain this certificate of competence, how to recognise it, how to determine its validity, how to revoke it and what rights are to deal with explosives and what our register of investors is. If we look at what is now changing here, in fact, this proposal proposes that the validity of this certificate be changed from 10 to 5 years. In order for it to continue, a refresher course is needed, and the idea is that, through these refresher courses, the players will be able to get more and more information about what has happened in the legislation, whether there have been any changes, what new regulations have come into being and how safe work and its methods have evolved, what changes have been made in explosives and their properties. Above all, because we are dealing with dangerous substances, this reform is necessary. In fact, since this legislation on the stakes and the related regulation interferes with a person's legal status, it is important that this is laid down with sufficient precision, especially when it is limited as to whether or not that document can be obtained and continued. In other words, in Article 5, which concerns the issue of a certificate of competence, the committee took the view that the power to adopt a regulation in Article 5(3) could be removed, since in fact the same thing is already done in Article 11 and paragraph 2 thereof. In addition, the committee considers that the dangerous goods transport offence provided for in Article 13 of Chapter 44 of the Criminal Code is comparable in nature and seriousness to the offences referred to in paragraph 3 of this Act, which defines that if the person concerned has been convicted of a fine in an explosive offence within the meaning of Article 11 of Chapter 44 of the Criminal Code, then the transport side is also included in this list of offences which is the subject of the law. And then Article 15 concerns the withdrawal of the certificate of qualification. In this context, in fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has consistently held that, if the authorisation is withdrawn, the individual's legal status will be more severe than, for example, if the authorisation is not originally granted, and therefore the committee proposes to supplement paragraph 2 so that the applicant's certificate of competence can be withdrawn, if, due to material changes in circumstances, the investor no longer fulfils the conditions for granting, or if the investor has substantially infringed the laws or regulations referred to in paragraph 2. In other words, three may not be just a technical change, but on such occasions the committee made a more precise amendment to this law, but otherwise it has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u189	Mr President! I took a position on this proposal earlier in the referral debate. I was then concerned, for example, about the way in which the former status of a foreign professional, in this case the investor, can be ensured. I did not find an adequate answer to my question in this government proposal or in the committee report. However, it is stated in the motion that, according to Chapter 31(1) of the Administrative Law, the Authority is required to provide sufficient and appropriate clarification by obtaining the information and explanations necessary to resolve the matter. In addition, it is reported that, in the case of the issue of an applicant’s certificates, information could be obtained in addition to a mandatory limited security clearance, for example on the basis of a police opinion under Chapter 7(2) of the Police Code. But when it comes to former citizens of certain countries, these inquiries can be sent in their direction, but answers never come from their direction. I can tell you this from my own experience. Such a country is Russia, for example. However, I think that the importance of access to information about the person's past is particularly important now that there are more asylum seekers coming to Finland. They may have a great deal of experience in handling explosives and in training at work, and they would like to continue their profession in Finland. It is clear that if they are considered suitable for work, they must have the same training as others. But what can we do to make sure that they are fit for the profession on the basis of their past? How, for example, can they be solved in the past? Article 7 of the Banking Act describes the behaviour required of the better. The article gives a detailed description of the contractual requirements: when is it appropriate or inappropriate to act as a bet, to work with explosives or even to hold them. The article is very clear and an infringement can be detected when committed in Finland or in an EU country, but not when an act is committed outside the EU. I also welcome the fact that the committee took a position on the transport of dangerous goods. This offence must also be added to the list in Article 7 even if it is not a dangerous offence involving explosives. There is no uniform legislation in the European Union on the qualification requirements for investors. Finland’s legislation is therefore fundamentally different from that of other EU countries. In Finland, the batch categories are divided according to the amount of explosives used and the location of the explosion. In many other EU countries, the classes of competence are divided according to the connection and field of activity of explosives. For example, differences in legislation are important for labour mobility, especially now that immigration is at its highest level in Europe. In many European countries, the training of the investor is given according to where the work is done: is the work under the ground or on the ground? I did not see in the motion or report any reference to the training of explosives outside the EU. In Finland, the Regional State Administrative Agency may also grant, for specific reasons, the right to act as an investmenter abroad, even if it does not have the training and work experience requirements referred to in Article 10(1) of the Act. The previous training itself does not matter much, because in Finland, only a person who is suitable for investing, adequately trained and suitable for working with explosives can become a better in an ideal situation. Explosion work must be understood as an act of severe responsibility and requires particular care from its authors. Carelessness in the work of the investor can pose a serious risk to health and life for all persons affected by the work. I do not believe that a person whose criminal record cannot be ascertained with certainty, whether he is a Finnish or a foreign person, should be allowed to be a bet. Mr President! Even now, thousands of kilos of explosives are missing. In Finland, it is customary to place explosives from mining sites in a fireproof tin can and a cage around it. This is how everyone sees where explosives are stored. Locks are usually light padlocks that can be opened in an instant. More attention should be paid to the safe storage of explosives at work sites.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u190	Mr President! I don't want to drag you out, just briefly. We did go through this problem in committee, and on the basis of the information we received from both the Ministry of the Interior and the police authorities, we came up with this solution, which is what this law is. In fact, these bodies, as experts, considered this report to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-07-ps-34.u191	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TrVM 1/2016 vp. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on Friday, 1 April 2016.
