ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. A decision is now being taken on the question of cuts in higher education and student support for Anna-Maja Henriksson and others. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 6 April 2016. In the debate, Anna-Maja Henriksson, supported by Mrs Eeva-Johanna Eloranna, has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 5/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the meeting on 7 April 2016. The draft amending budget will now be examined in detail. I would ask for amendments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u3	May Aalto's proposals 2 and Kari Uotila's proposals 3 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u4	Chairman! In paragraph 5, I had to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u5	Mr President! The last one was to vote 'no', I accidentally abstained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u6	Mr President! In paragraph 1, I intended to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u7	Mr President! In paragraph 5, I intended to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u8	Enter on the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u9	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u10	Madam President! This is the government's proposal for a law on enforcement and debt obsolescence. The purpose of the proposal is to change the enforcement curve in such a way that, instead of the postal address, enforcement notifications will take place electronically in the future. This is what I am focusing on in this speech. This therefore applies only to those persons who have put in place an e-service system. A person may also prohibit the transmission of electronic communications to a service account as well as the termination of the service account at any time, when the information is passed by letter. I was a member of the Legal Committee last season, when the development of electronic systems was often discussed. It is a good thing that progress has been made on these matters. Legislation must monitor social development and it should be possible to anticipate it. This is exactly what changing the enforcement bar is doing. I would like to highlight the positive economic impact of the proposal. The savings resulting from the proposal have been estimated at EUR 900000 per year since 2019. The proposal is part of the Government's top project, i.e. the digitisation of public services. In the future, the use of the e-services system will also be extended to other public administrations, such as the Tax Administration and the Social Insurance Institution. It is to be hoped that the service system will become familiar to the public and will also be well informed, advised and instructed. Mr President! However, this government proposal also raises possible questions, such as whether customers, or so-called account owners, are using the messages they receive from the service system. Safeguarding the flow of information is an important issue and it is therefore desirable that people should be informed about the reform. It should also be borne in mind that not everyone has access to electronic information systems. These include, for example, some elderly people and those who do not have computers or mobile devices available but who have to go to libraries for example to do their business. In the end, however, the letter will be easier to open and will come home, and it should be remembered in moving this matter forward. We are facing new issues and it is therefore good to see how this legislative change will work in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u11	Madam President! This proposal to amend the law on the statute of limitations on enforcement and debt is, in my view, one part of the digitalisation and modernisation that must also be used in public power. It is true, of course, what Mr Juvonen said in that regard that some people still want to get the letters in paper mail home, but it is important that the enforcement activities also go through information technology. It is also quite high savings targets set for this, that EUR 900000 per year would be saved from these digital services. Well, they do complement each other, don't they? There was also a debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on how to ensure the possibility for those who may not have so much in the presence of digital services, but then the same possibility for people will continue to exist in the paper version. This is perhaps more of a complementary issue than a restrictive one, and I think it is a good point to talk about the deregulation and digitalisation that must also happen on the part of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u12	Madam President! It is good that the world lives in this time, where we are at the moment. For that reason, it is certainly good that those frames that are capable of operating digitally operate digitally, but it is not yet the time that it is the only course of action. However, when it comes to enforcement, I would also like this digital activity to work the other way around: that is, the person who is in the enforcement process could easily and smoothly communicate with the enforcement officer via e-mail and, for example, agree on different ways to reduce his debt. In the end, this enforcement issue is one that we should do again. At the moment, the situation is quite difficult for the debtor, because, so simple as that, if a person has ten creditors and each has ten debts and 10 euros per month plus expenses, then each of these creditors will receive the euro per month, if it is the capital repayment, and he will be left with 9 euros from everyone else, and all of these costs will always be incurred as it goes on. Of course, we should reasonably be able to get a person to shorten first the debts of one creditor and then the debts of the next creditor. We have seen it as a matter of equality for all creditors to receive something, but the other side of it is that the debtor hangs in that hang for no matter how long, he will never get out of that debt of enforcement, but that debt of enforcement will increase, as if in the case of a snowball, and at the end he will pay considerably more than the capital itself. This is an issue on which we should have enough humanity and where we should have the resources and the courage to intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u13	Madam President! Here again this week, a number of contributions have been made from the opposition that the government will not be able to make decisions or move forward with solutions that would contribute to the cause of Finland and Finns. This week, big things have progressed — spending limits and social welfare, among other things — but also many smaller things. This proposal, which is now on the table, is one of the small proposals that are now moving forward: a project on the digitisation of public services, which aims to e-mail transactions between citizens and public authorities, i.e. to make the procedures for notification more and more e-mailed on the enforcement side. This will also have significant savings effects, which will have a savings effect of almost EUR 1 million, and the project is also very much to be supported. One important point raised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that special attention must now be paid to the operational security of this system, otherwise it may not be possible for the public to make use of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u14	Mr President! Indeed, the issue is rather limited in itself in this area, but what is absolutely essential in the development of our public administration is that we move increasingly towards electronic procedures. It speeds up and clarifies business and documentation for the user and, of course, makes it possible to save public money. And in this context too, I would like to point out that, now that, for example, regional governments are being brought together, I personally hope that we will be able to keep a close watch on the principle that people are being asked the same information only once, regardless of where the public system or even the private system, especially in social and health services, is moving, and that we will finally be able to achieve genuine dialogue between the information systems. Other aspects of enforcement were also raised in this debate. Even I would encourage the relevant ministries to look at further reforms, if we could get to a situation where people who have been subjected to heavy enforcement like this would see light more often at the end of a tunnel. Too often there are situations in which, in fact, one can virtually not shorten any of those debts in any visible time and a person gets into this kind of support and enforcement cycle — we don’t have the possibility of a personal bankruptcy either. Of course, the debts have to be paid, and ultimately the debtor has the responsibility, but such a procedure, for example, to pay one debt at a time and the whole thing would be done more quickly, could be worth investigating more seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u15	Mr President! It is good that the notices of enforcement now come within the scope of digitalisation — but in such a way as the representative Even my corner said that, of course, these announcements still have to be sent by post to those who cannot enter the digital world. This savings target in this digitalization project is essential, as Mr Mykkänen has just said before me. But in order for these savings to be made, we must always bear in mind in this digitalisation that those costs must then really be kept under control. It requires, among other things, technical knowledge that these projects are synchronized with each other, so that unnecessary duplication of systems is not created. I also think that there is a slight need for an electronic means of identification for all people in the future, such as the online banking code, which is available to all citizens. And then, when it is in everyone's hands, we can move on to better digital projects, such as putting elections to an electronic vote. It would also make it possible, for example, to increase direct democracy, which I am very much in favour of, and that is where this digitalisation is also important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u16	Madam President! I remember that at the end of the 1990s when the Lipponen government was in that government as ministers Jouni Backman and Olli-Pekka Heinonen, they were such pioneers of electronic services and this development at that time. Then there were strong plans for real results and progress. Then, when their time as ministers ran out, Finland stopped developing this whole field. It is only now really possible, in this government's time, to take this seriously, both in the government programme and then in the practical measures. In this respect, in connection with the discussion of this law, I should like to express my special thanks to Minister Lindström for having made officials do this work and we are now on the way to many of these things in order to promote digitalisation, e-services. I hope that they will really be promoted with every possible means, including in the elections and then, of course, in this major regional and social reform. It has the potential to introduce these and to have savings and efficiency in this public administration enormously. The Sipilä government is now dealing with a very big issue and is working on it, and for that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u17	Madam President! It must also be said as a signal to the government that, once these e-services systems have been developed in the past in public administration, as the previous representative has said, these projects have been in the 1990s and the early 2000s, so many of these projects have also been very unsuccessful. There has been a great deal of money in them and there has been a message to the citizens that everything is going online now and this is happening via an electronic service card or someone else. These failed projects should now serve as such a bitter high school for these projects as well. In other words, we cannot afford to fail to move forward with this electronic service system, because the world has become so digital in 10 to 15 years that it is now necessary to succeed in this electronic service system. That is why, in the direction of Minister Vehviläinen and in the direction of the ict department of the VM, there is now a strong signal that you should now use the best expertise you can find in the whole country, not just in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u18	Mr President! Unfortunately, there are hundreds of thousands in Finland and very many young people are facing growth. In the case of enforcement, the way in which the debt is paid does not yet work well enough. It is the best solution for society and for the individual if repayment of the debt could be planned. It is no one’s advantage when the amount of enforcement, even a small initial sum, can grow into a huge amount. Similarly, the lack of a bank account for a person poses huge problems today: you cannot access the official website, such as Kela's website, or when you are looking for a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u19	Mr President! Just as Mr Häkkänen mentioned there: there is certainly no room for failure in the introduction and creation of an e-service system. When we think that the use of e-service systems will expand in the future and indeed there will also be the Tax Administration and then the Social Insurance Institution, those customers who will then go there electronically will need a basis for them to be able to move forward in that service system. Yes, today, the online world and, through it, the handling of matters can be very challenging. However, man is the center of all things, and the machines come only then. Yes, we must do everything we can to create a system that is open to all and accessible to all — we can also use that word in the construction of these systems. Accessible e-services for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-08-ps-35.u20	Mr President! We discussed this matter in the Legal Committee for a long time. Digitalisation is not necessary, but it is necessary and we must move on to the opportunities offered by digitalisation. A lot we've learned, mistakes have been made. In every case, we have to pay for those scholarships, and that means that we are actually learning from them and making them more efficient and better systems. It must also be taken into account, as Mr Juvonen well said, that man is at the heart of everything: account is taken of the service needs of people of different ages. That is why we are moving at a good pace here, taking into account that not everyone is using them yet.
