ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u2	Mr President! The proposal proposes to introduce a new identity card law. The proposal would implement the Government Programme's key project on streamlining the regulations and the Government Programme's objective of improving the level of internal security services. This reduction in the ID card procedure under the proposal through the introduction of electronic application and direct delivery of ready-made documents is included in the Prime Minister's declaration on the dismantling of standards and should therefore be supported. According to the proposal, the proposed amendments aim to increase the smoothness and urgency of the administrative activities related to an identity card by enabling electronic initiation of an application for an identity card and, in certain circumstances, by applying for an identity card electronically without personal contact with the authority. The application can also be initiated online at home from your own computer. This will reduce the costs of the applicant, as the police department may be physically far away. An ID card would also be sent directly to the applicant so that he did not have to visit the police station. According to the proposal, these justified changes would also contribute to the integration of foreigners by allowing the issuing of a foreign identity card to all foreigners who have received a residence permit and a municipality of residence in Finland, even if they do not already have a reliable identity document. After all, it would be good if an immigrant had at least a reliable document of his or her identity. Some 135,000 identity cards were issued in 2014. If all applications could be dealt with in an electronic procedure alone, it would certainly be a relief for the administrative resources of the police services and for the work of the office staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u3	Madam President! It is very much to be welcomed that the application for an identity card should also be made to the electronic system, where it is possible to do so in any other way. For example, you can apply for a passport online now, and why not an identity card. It is a little strange at the moment that the passport and the identity card have such different kinds of possibilities for both applying for them and applying for them. It is human, of course, that we now have a large number of foreigners, that they are much quicker to obtain an identity card, so that all business and organisation would be much easier, such as opening a bank account and other such practical arrangements. The third part, which can be highlighted here, is, of course, that it is also possible to apply for an identity card from the delegations in the future. This will of course benefit such people who have moved around the world and are therefore in an impossible situation if you should personally come from Finland to collect an identity card, and so it will help you to search abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u4	Madam President! More than 200 changes to the standards are under way in the Sipilä government, with the aim of streamlining governance and making citizens more flexible. We are delighted to welcome this reform of the identity card law, which goes in the direction that at home — when it suits you best — these applications can be initiated, sent their photographs, and everything, this whole thing, becomes more flexible. So here's a warm, short congratulations to the government for a good presentation. At the beginning of this week, the opposition gives its strong support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u5	Madam President! Indeed, there is a need to give strong support: the Government Programme aims at new ways of working, as part of it is the dismantling of red tape, which means the dismantling of unnecessary standards, the streamlining of authorisation procedures and the rationalisation of the appeal procedure. In this list, too, there is this identity card law in Parliament today, but in addition to that, among other things, the amendment to the Mining Act, which also significantly dismantles unnecessary bureaucracy. In other words, when you often see that nothing happens in this government, yes, it does happen here, and also in a concrete way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u6	Madam President! I too would like to join those Members of Parliament who have thanked the government for the fact that standards and unnecessary bureaucracy have been dismantled. This long-standing effort to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy and unjustified standards is taking a leap forward in the current government, and that is a good thing. Liberalisation of trading hours was an important reform in this respect. It did not clarify the opening hours, but it gave decision-making power to those to whom it belongs, i.e. customers, entrepreneurs and staff. In this context, I would like to say that the overall reform of the alcohol law is also expected. I do not know where it is actually stuck, but there would also be room for the dismantling of various unnecessary petty regulations and other unnecessary standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u7	Madam President! This proposal is indeed necessary and, in my opinion, also very well prepared and thoroughly prepared. The simplified application procedure is also positive for the authorities as it reduces the need for customer visits in general and makes the planning of working time more flexible. In particular, this electronic initiation is a positive step. In any case, what is certainly to be prepared for is that the number of applicants for a foreign identity card simply increases with the recent increase in the number of asylum seekers, with more residence permits and travel documents being issued, but of course it is also important for foreigners that they now have better opportunities to prove their identity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u8	Madam President! This proposal proposes to introduce a new law on identity cards. The Act on ID Cards would provide, among other things, for the application, issue and withdrawal of an identity card. The proposed provisions are essentially in line with the existing identity card law. This proposal is welcome and, in principle, supported. It would implement the Government Programme’s key project on streamlining the regulations and the Government Programme’s objective of improving the level of internal security services. One of the aims of the proposal is to enable Finnish citizens residing abroad to apply for an identity card by extending their powers to Finnish diplomatic missions. However, the proposal requires, among other things, the further development of information systems and the re-training of police and delegation authorisation management staff. These matters which are part of the implementation of the legislation must therefore also be properly addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u9	Mr President! Indeed, we are now moving in a good direction and harmonising practices. As far as passport is concerned, it has already been possible to apply for it electronically and can then be delivered directly to R-kiosk, and this legislative reform is also clarifying this procedure with regard to the identity card, so that the two parallel documents are not different. And it is also important that these reforms now taking place with regard to the identity card better serve this large number of foreigners, which is the case in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u10	Madam President! Finland has not been able to create a single card system, which has been under work for about fifteen years and where the customer service of the Social Insurance Institution could be handled with the same card. It would also be in the interests of customers and Finnish citizens. Many other countries, including Estonia, have been able to do this — though they left the empty table. It would be desirable to be able to prepare for this project as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u11	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u12	Madam President! The proposal before us mainly concerns the streamlining of licensing processes for private security services. The objective and the proposals contained in the proposal to clarify the law on private security services are to be welcomed. The streamlining of permit processes is one of the objectives of the Government term included in the Government Programme. This proposal also has the economic impact to be sought, and that is what we are looking for here. An application for a permit to be a guard, a guardian of order and a guardian could also be initiated electronically and a personal visit to a police station would not normally be required. As a result, for example, when comparing the electronic processing of passport applications, it has been established that an electronic procedure takes about 15 minutes less than a traditional procedure. Time sounds small, but in a long run and with a longer pattern, it is significant. This would already save more than one person-year for the electronic processing of private security authorisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u13	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on Private Security Services, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2017. The proposed changes mainly concern the streamlining of licensing processes for private security services. I consider the proposal as a whole to be good. The aim of this government's proposal is to simplify, make more flexible and clarify the provisions relating to the acceptance of the guardian, the guardian and the guardian. It is proposed to amend the provisions of the proposal so that the approval authority could be any police department rather than the police department of the applicant’s municipality of residence. The approval could also be withdrawn by any police department. This is a good change because, in line with our decisions, the network of police stations is decreasing all the time and the various services are being further concentrated on certain police stations. In this way, the burden between different institutions will be levelled and authorisation management resources can be managed more flexibly. The application may continue to be submitted to the police department in the future, but it could also be launched at home electronically from its own computer. However, according to the proposal, the police department could, for a particular reason, oblige the applicant to arrive at the police station personally. It is good, therefore, that, if necessary, a person can be asked to the police station, where the person who submitted the application is seen. Many times a minute of conversation with a person gives a better picture than the photo that may be on the application. About 15,000 private security licensing cases are handled annually by police services. With the possibility of electronic processing, it has been estimated that one case will take about 15 minutes less than the one dealt with in the traditional procedure. If all private security matters could be dealt with in an electronic procedure alone, it would be estimated that about two man-years would be saved from the resources of the licensing administration of the police department. It is not at all a trivial matter for the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u14	Madam President! The aim of this bill is to make changes to the law that will come into force at the beginning of next year. The proposal is a necessary and good example of the possibility of improving what has already been decided and concluded if there is a state of will. The aim of the Act is to reduce regulation and streamline processes in accordance with the Government Programme. At the same time, reducing unnecessary work and reducing costs by introducing e-services. In addition, the approval authority could be any national police department. This is an excellent thing. When citizens travel within the empire from one police station to another, they can visit the police station in which they are located. As a new issue, we must welcome an increase which will allow a company with a security business licence to operate also on a Finnish ship — even when the vessel is moving outside the Finnish water catchment area. The good news of the proposal is also that the Police Government is given the authority to prescribe the subjects of education, educational content and hours-to-hour distribution of legal education. The procedure harmonises training and thus prevents possible conflicts at work. Madam President! I'm in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u15	Madam President! It would be wonderful if the government as a whole were to sit here today, when the opposition becomes so much of this praise. But I'm sure Secretary Orphan will pass on our great thanks. There has been a lot of criticism here about the urgency and urgency of the government's legislative process and the lack of a wide range of assessments. This is a good example of good preparation. This has gone to the heart of the matter, simplifies legislation and aims to bring legislation on the security service under a single law. The application and procedures will also be streamlined, which gives the feeling that we are now going in the direction that the present digital age makes possible, so I repeat myself: congratulations to the government!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u16	Madam President! It is indeed a good thing for the police, for the authority and then for the private security sector to streamline and lighten this process of applications for authorisation. One of the problems at the moment for these entrepreneurs has been that the processing times of applications for approval vary from one police department to another, and then entrepreneurs have also been unequal. In practice, then, it is now possible for any police department to accept an application, so that these applications can then be directed to the various police departments, which will make this process smoother. And, of course, the fact that this need for personal submission of an application would be reduced and the time taken for the authorisation process as a whole would be reduced is also positive. That saving of two man-years is, of course, quite small in terms of the whole field of police activity, but in any case a positive step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u17	Madam President! As I said at the last point, the transition to the electronic system is very justified, but perhaps it can also be said at this point that perhaps it is a matter of urgency if we do not have these police services everywhere in Finland. Of course, those unreasonable trips to companies to take it off a note or pick it up will sound pretty awful if those trips are hundreds of kilometres. The point of view of this must be taken, and the point to which Mr Räsänen drew attention is that a reduction in the two years of work does of course sound all right if this is really the way to speed things up. But when it is known that the police are losing more than 800 person - year - olds, the improvement of two person - year - olds does not yet make much progress in this matter. Here, apart from the fact that the application can be submitted and processed, of course, it is good that any police department can also cancel it, because we have a lot of fine attempts, but we also have such situations where not all companies are working properly, and it is therefore very justified that the cancellation can also be made by any police department.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u18	Madam President! Indeed, it is time for Finland to finally move on to e-services across the board, and this is also a good example of what has happened with the passport application, that is to say, when you have moved on to e-services, it has been possible to save about 15 minutes in the processing of one passport application, which, when there is a lot of things, is a significant saving at this point. Of course, as has been said in previous speeches, when it comes to 15,000 permits for the private security sector, in practice it is nothing more than a saving of two man-years, but in any case this is the direction to be taken in other sectors in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u19	Madam President! Technical changes to the modern IT society are certainly justified. Now that there is also a minister, then, in fact, this sort of perhaps a little question of the nature of the speech: As the number of private security tasks is increasing and the sector as a whole is growing, it is good that this private security legislation is brought together in a single law to clarify this situation between the authorities and security service providers. Perhaps I would ask the Minister more about what the Minister will assess, how this flexibility and increase in the role of the private security sector can reduce the number of police tasks at the moment, without jeopardising the role of the authorities themselves under the Constitution. This interface is, of course, sensitive between private and public tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u20	Madam President! Digitalisation can actually be used in the authorisation process. This will make life easier for people, facilitate entrepreneurship and facilitate employment. There are other objectives relating to the security sector. In Brazil, for example, there has been a strong increase in the search for digitalisation, even though the equipment is not quite in order, because it was able to bypass one stage of corruption. In other words, it may also be able to reduce corruption worldwide. In my opinion, Minister Berner has been very effective in pushing for this de-standardisation project. We can all follow it from the norminpurku.fi page, and as we can see, these presentations are now coming to Parliament. All we have to do is keep this pressure going. The parliamentary groups of the government parties have also been exceptionally active here, so that this project is now making good progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u21	Madam President! I would have liked to pick up a little bit on what Mr Kari already asked in his speech and what he said. How do you, Minister, see this, now that public authority is being delegated to private operators, to law enforcement and so forth? It is true that the police often shine with their absence when the police are needed. We have a clear order for the police and for people to feel that security. Do you see any problems here, or what are the thoughts of this very transfer of power to the public? How does it affect us in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u22	Mr President! As is the case with the debate, we are very much in agreement that we welcome the development and extension of electronic services, but at the same time it is also good to be honest about what conclusions we have come to when, as a Parliament, we have looked more closely at these electronic services, and experts have widely said to Parliament that the development of electronic services has been far too technologically oriented and has not found such a common view between authorities or ministries on how to develop this issue. I also think it is good to highlight the fact that, according to the ict project portfolio maintained by the Ministry of Finance, we currently have 102 projects of a total size of at least EUR 1 million at different stages of implementation in the state administration and the total value of these projects is one billion. In addition to this development work, I would also draw attention to the fact that many of these projects have become significantly more expensive than anticipated. This previous issue, which was discussed here, has also been on Parliament's table for decades in one way or another. While there is a common sense of will that much must be done in this sector, there must also be criticism that things have not really gone the way they did in Strömsö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u23	Mr President! This legislation has no public authority to transfer to private operators any more than private operators currently have a field of action in this security sector. In fact, the police still retain that responsibility for public order and security. But there is, in itself, a great deal of concern about the issue that has been debated to some extent, namely police resources. Indeed, we are talking here about two years of staff work, which is not the most important thing in this proposal, but I must say that the spending limits decision, which gradually decided on an increase of EUR 5 and EUR 10 million in police resources, was, in itself, disappointing because it will unfortunately not fill the gap that is developing during this parliamentary term. Now that we are talking about this responsibility for public order and security and the tasks of the authorities, I will ask Minister Orpo what your assessment is, what is the reduction in police personnel by 2019 now following this spending limits decision. That estimate has been there 600 policemen before — what will it be now? I understand that this reduction will continue to be closer to 500 person-years in 2019 with these decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u24	Let's take this opportunity to take Minister Orpo's answers, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u25	Madam President! If I start with this number of police officers, these matters of identity cards or security that are now under discussion do not in themselves have a resource effect in such a way that it is significant directly. But if we go to this number of policemen, if we had gone to the frameworks that were still before the last government spending limits decision, then the Police Government estimates that the current figure of some 7300 policemen and women in the spending limits period would have fallen by as much as 800, which is a dramatic decline. I have said before that I think it is too much, especially when the security environment has changed significantly. Now the spending limits decision added 5 million for next year and 10 million for the coming years, which was well described by Mr Räsänen. I have now asked the Police Government to calculate the number of police officers this will lead to. Under no circumstances will it be able to tackle the whole decline. But we must remember that there will be next frameworks and subsequent budgets. As far as next year is concerned, we will be able to manage the scarcest. We dare to increase the amount of education. But even the increase in education beyond what we can promise these young people after its completion must be taken into account. But we must also continue to take measures within the police to make it possible for us to allocate the funds specifically to that task of cutting down the number of policemen and women. I myself have used such a working title that I do not think that less than 7,000 police officers should go, which means the current 7300 bills. But that too is very hard work in this budgetary situation. After all, in the framework, we are reducing further cuts of EUR 400 million. But in that situation it was possible to target even these minor additions to the police, which I am pleased about in itself. But then there's the security sector. As former Minister Räsänen said, there is no competence here to move anywhere. We have very limited legislation to what private security services are to do and to do. I see it as being widely used and used today in society, for example, as guarantors of the safety of various shops or public events, etc. It releases policemen to the important task they need to be in, i.e. on-call, on-call, on the move, then tackle more serious crimes or help people in acute emergencies. Yeah, it's good. But in that, the representatives are quite right, who asked this question, that we should be very careful about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u26	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Orphan, for the good answers. — I just wanted to make amends here. Mr Räsänen, you said that this proposal does not in itself transfer public authority. That's right. My question was this from the donkey bridge on the whole subject. As I understand it, the situation is quite good in the training of law enforcement and for their part. There are many applicants for training there, and it attracts interest in young people. Of course, it is a good thing that it is an interesting profession, you could say, even a rising profession we have coming here to Finland. We need the police. At the end of the day, one could say that when the police are reduced, public safety will be reduced, or if there are not enough of them. Then, as a nurse, I have to add that when nurses are reduced and reduced, patient safety is reduced. We are in the middle of security issues with a great many other professional groups than just police and law enforcement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u27	Madam President! It is a relief to hear that even the Minister feels that public authority is not being delegated. That's what we're gonna find in this bill, too. As Mrs Juvonen said, the question was perhaps rhetorical in this regard. But I dare to disagree with the Minister on that point as well. There will be a hole in the frame in the years to come. These additions of 5 plus 10 million are not enough to cover the reduction in the number of police officers due to their retirement age or other exits, let alone the need for an increase in the number of police officers still exists. 7300 are currently the strength of policemen and women. A few years ago, it was 7500. This decline will be severe and especially if it continues in the coming years. We are much lower in numbers of policemen and women than in Sweden, for example, in another civilised country, next door. It has a direct impact on people's safety, if not very immediate, at least in peripheral areas, in peripheral areas, the effects are already visible today. It would be a relief to hear the Minister say that this framework for the police did not go quite well. I believe that is what the Minister himself thinks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u28	Madam President! Let's just say there's a little more work to be done. We're on the move. If, therefore, the objective is to be able to break the decline in the number of policemen and women, then we need to get some extra money into the framework, which has now come to some extent, but we certainly need to take our own measures in this budgetary situation, which is also beyond doubt. It must be noted that the number of police graduates and the number of graduates have fallen so that even if we were able to raise the number of places for starting police training, we are not able to fully respond to this large amount of retirement. Even in this situation, the budget alone is not enough, because retirement will be so great in the years to come. Now we have one quite practical problem for which I have asked for clarification and proposals for measures, but we have had about a thousand applicants to the Police College of Applied Sciences, but there are unfortunately few who pass the tests. In other words, the number of starting places reserved for this year could only be partially filled. There are problems not only with the language test but also with the physics test. This is something we need to find a solution to how we can get good material for a fine police profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u29	Mr President! I would remind you that one year ago, just before the parliamentary term changed, all the parliamentary groups unanimously in the Parliamentary Group on Internal Security committed themselves to maintaining internal security resources and staffing at least at the current level. It was then found that, overall, the financial need for the spending limits period 2015-2019 would be around EUR 100 million, which would be needed to replace it in order to maintain that level. These challenges of internal security have not been reduced since last year, but have, on the contrary, increased because of immigration and also because of the terrorist phenomenon, which means that the threat assessments have also increased, so I think that Parliament should pull itself together here, get all the parliamentary groups together, and stick to the commitment that has been made, especially since those challenges have continued to grow. In this respect, I do understand the difficult situation of Minister Orpo in the government where these savings are made, but I hope that we will all be giving Minister Orpo strong support now that those internal security resources can indeed be kept at the level that has been jointly committed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u30	Madam President! There is at least one Member who gives Minister Orpo full support in these police matters, among other things. The Minister made good reference to the level of police training that we have not been able to ensure in recent years that the places where we start our police training are filled by skilled and competent people whose training is then equivalent to those of the police, the difficult tasks that the police have. I would therefore like to see this legislative reform or reform of the regulations on the criteria for police training speeded up, because police training takes three years today, and students starting in the autumn will not graduate until 2020 or beyond. It is therefore of paramount importance, first of all, to draw attention to training, to the need to fill the starting points, and then perhaps to look at whether the number of starting places should be increased, so that we can get enough police officers out of the way in the coming years, hopefully in the increasing frameworks, and also to what the representative, the former Minister, has just referred to, also to this change in the security situation. I myself am the vice-chairman of the parliamentary working group and it is easy to agree with what Mr Räsänen has said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u31	Madam President! Yes, I was forced to take the floor and express strong support for both Mr Räsänen and Mr Kari. I remember when during the last period in this Chamber — or not exactly in this Chamber, but quite figuratively in this Chamber — some of the parliamentarians and, in particular, the opposition of that time even regarded this 7500 as far too low a number of police officers, i.e. far too low a number of police officers, to the security situation at that time. If we look now at where the world has changed in terms of security, and also at the fact that, in the light of these spending limits, the number of police women and men will inevitably fall, then I am very surprised to have followed this debate, the silence of which has almost been heard in this Chamber that this Parliament is not so concerned about the situation of internal security. I've been wondering why. That is why it is very good that there are well-informed representatives here, such as Mr Räsänen, former Minister and Mr Kari, who are raising this issue. This must not be forgotten, and this is absolutely essential at a time when the government has a coalition, a centre, and especially the Finns. Now I remember that it was the Finns who voted for this last season that 7500 police officers were far too small for the Finnish security situation in that situation. Now the security situation has deteriorated, and the government actually cuts off the number of police women and men.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u32	Madam President! I am not quite sure, but I have the impression that the frameworks which have been added to the internal security and justice of 50 million in the negotiations on the Government Programme, and therefore now added 5 plus 10 million, have been made by the last government. That there are now two times more money here to achieve the objective set out by the parliamentary working group. So the increase in government programme negotiations was 50 million, of which the police accounted for 28.5 million. This year, as a result of the acute situation of this asylum crisis, we have received additional appropriations and, thank you also to Parliament, increases in the end of the year in which this year's situation has been secured. We can now improve the situation next year, but the problems that challenge this amount will be there at the end of the spending limits period. That is why we now have the priority of raising the number of police trainees, that is everything, and then again I hope that, on the one hand, the forthcoming negotiations on the spending limits — and I hope that the budgetary situation has improved so much — will be able to do without any greater drama in the rest of the period, so that we will be able to secure the employment of these graduates as well. But it cannot be denied that this is a difficult situation and that these additional appropriations are certainly not enough to cover the whole reduction, the estimated figure of around 800 on the old spending limits. But let us do everything possible to break it down and find the means to secure it, and I am happy to accept the support of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u33	President! Yes, it must be mentioned that last year Parliament added 500,000 to the budget for the rest of the year, 300,000 to the local police, then 400,000 to the MPK in support of national defence and then 200,000 to the information campaign on immigration, approximately. These additions must be taken into account — but Parliament has done some good in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u34	Madam President! Mr Lindtman and I were on the Administrative Committee during the previous period, and these matters were discussed there for a very long time. I share Mr Lindtman's concern that the number of policemen is too low and too low, but, as the Minister said, we are currently living on the basis of the economy that took place during the previous administration. And now that there has been a cut in the previous administration, we are living with it, but here is the representative. Even Lähmämäki proved with merit that additional funds have been allocated. Of course, I am concerned, as I understood, that Mr Lindtman is also concerned that we do not have enough police. When the Minister said that we are doing everything we can to get additional funding for the police in order to ensure equal treatment of citizens and the preservation of public order and security within the realm, it is great to note that the opposition is also concerned about this matter, and when matters are started, we are confident that we will receive the support of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u35	Mr President! Of course, such a big issue can be dealt with in small pieces by listing the small amounts that will be increased at the same time as the large amounts will be reduced. In the same way, you can thank the previous government — or blame, depending on the kind of message you wish to seek. However, thanks to the previous government, one can say, among other things, that the increase in starting places was launched during the last term of the government, so that, in the case of this parliamentary working party, there was also a desire to increase the number of starting places for police training. I would also like to make sure that the Minister has already asked me whether this reform of the regulations or legislation on police training should be speeded up so that one way or another it is possible to ensure that the provision of information on police and related police training is reformed so that we can have qualified policemen and women in the future, according to what we are aiming for. More than 300 we got and less than 200 last time we got it. In addition, I would like to remind all members of the opposition of the previous season of the common message of the Federation of Finnish Police Organisations echoed a little over a year ago at Senate Square: there are too few of us. And there are no more cops today than there were then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u36	Madam President! During the last term, I myself was in the Legal Committee and as an alternate member of the Administrative Committee, and the police and their resources and whether there are enough of them have been discussed during the last period and certainly before, when I have not been here myself, and the debate continues. I think it is very important for us to have this debate here constructively and together, both opposition and government, because security concerns us all and that is something that comes against each of us, whether we move there during the day or at night and we wonder whether it is good for us to go there. Yes, the government has heard the message, and a message has been sent inside the government, which has come from a group of Finns. Here Lindtman asked about us — we have experts here because we have police officers, and they have told us about the personal experience and vision of the situation, and the messages have been heard. We are living in a very demanding situation at the moment. After this situation of asylum seekers has exploded and the general world peace has already been shaken, of course we wonder when there is enough, how much is enough, we can ask about every professional sector too. In that sense, Mr Orvo has his full support and thanks for the good efforts he has made in this area. Additional appropriations have been made available, that is to say, a cash bag has been opened up, and we will do everything we can, and let us also do so together, through cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u37	Mr President! Minister Orpo spoke with great respect on the matter of the police and very well defended his own field and internal security. The Minister's comment was that, despite the large number of candidates, seats have not been filled. I then wondered what measures should be taken in the Ministry to make the image of the police grow in such a way that these places could be filled, that good applicants would be there for the police and that this large number of retired police officers would be replaced by new good police officers and authorities in order to maintain internal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u38	Madam President! In different countries, the police are acting on completely different principles in certain situations. In the United States, the police usually patrol alone in a car. As a rule, the use of working time is in traffic. People want to drive so that the public can see that the police are monitoring the situation. Police cars in the final stages of life are moved to different places without being occupied. This will have a very important contribution to make to promoting and reducing road safety. In fact, you might say that if you want to increase the number of policemen, that is a way of doing so, but better use of policemen could give you a more preventative effect if you think about it in a new way. For the State, a significant part of the cost of a police car is taxes that go into the state treasury, as well as fuel costs. What's expensive for a private man is cheap for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u39	Mr President! This time of internal security, however, has come as a surprise to us all with this immigration. In the previous years, internal security has deteriorated and people’s sense of security has deteriorated. However, the main problem has been the problems of exclusion and other social problems. This immigration situation has come on top of it, which now seems quite out of control from the point of view of internal security. This is where we must remember this debate when we are discussing, for example, the reform of integration, the complete reform. It is a very important point of view now, then, in the future. The good thing about this is that we traditionally have strong cooperation between the authorities in the form of a PTR, for example, and why not also thank for the flexibility that this private security service now, for example, gives to this whole package of security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u40	Mr President! Now that we have been commended for the fact that additional appropriations have been made available, we must take these proportions into account: if we are talking about a level increase of about EUR 10 million, and when we know what a huge gap is in view of this parliamentary term — just as Mr Orpo said, just before this spending limits decision, it was estimated that by 2019 800 policemen will be reduced — we know that that 10 million will not make up for it but a small part. In other words, in the light of the decisions that the government has taken up to now, in the light of all the minor increases to which Mr Juvonen referred, we still have a situation where we are facing a reduction of several hundred policemen during this parliamentary term, if there are not new decisions, and those new decisions are really needed. I do not believe that Finnish social peace and the sense of security for citizens simply stand up to the line that is currently in force. There is definitely a need for significant increases in police resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u41	Madam President! Now that we're talking police business, I thought I'd say a few words. Among other things, many Green MEPs have suggested that police training should be reformed so that more people with immigrant backgrounds should be included in police training. I understand that a positive response from the government has come to this. In fact, I would have asked here for interim information: has this kind of project started, and if it has started, then how does it appear in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u42	Madam President! When there is talk of internal security, I am concerned that we have very significant differences within the realm in the security situation because the police everywhere, in all localities, are no longer properly visible. At my place of residence in Ilomants, you can say that now that you are taking the police station away from it completely, it has led to all the police services being concentrated in Joensuu. You can see a cop there. In Joensuu, when you visit, the police car and the policeman run into almost every corner of the street. But when you're out there, you don't see much police. Of course, some traffic controls are being carried out. But the sum summarum: however, it would be important to take care during the next report or some investigation that the whole country should consider the matter and not just that the police services in growth centres are in order and there are hardly any services in other areas. This is a big issue and a lack which causes different mild phenomena and even more serious crime to spread to places where there is less control.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u43	Madam President! We people have personal qualities in whether we are taking the new proposals as if they were stunning or even enthusiastically. Mr Lehde's proposal, if it could be interpreted as a proposal, was about to say that: In America, old police cars are recycled along roads and thus serve as safety guarantors. As much as I love new suggestions and ideas, I do not support the introduction of a cold station network of police officers in Finland. We have a shortage of several hundred policemen, as has been pointed out here, and the private security sector is not there. From the point of view of the Constitution, the tasks of the authorities are also the responsibility of the authorities. Here too, this debate is clear. But I also wanted to speak after Mr Yanar's speech and to support this idea. The world changes, society changes, we become new people from other cultures. It is extremely important that, even now that policemen and women of immigrant origin are also present in the police force, we should be able to take specific account of this population group in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u44	Madam President! For years there has been a message from the citizens that too few police officers are on the street. People's sense of security has been shaken. Now that the police are retiring a lot, it is important to have new young policemen and young people interested in the police profession. Minister Orpo, you have just given worrying information that not all starting places are being filled, because language requirements, for example, are not controlled in these entrance tests. In this regard, I would like to ask whether these language requirements could be slightly reduced in the entrance tests, because it would be a way of involving young people with immigrant backgrounds in the police force, which was well mentioned above by Mr Yanark. The emphasis on this language training could then be greater in education, but the language requirements could be more relaxed in access requirements. In the last period, the administration of mobile police was also abolished and there was a strong concern in Parliament that road safety will certainly be maintained and that the police's tasks will be sufficient to maintain both road safety and other important tasks for which the police are needed. I would like to ask, Minister Orpo, your assessment of the current situation with regard to road safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u45	Madam President! It is extremely pleasant to hear from the Chamber that we do not have a security deficit in the opposition or a security deficit in the government, but have a common security deficit. This feels very good that, regardless of the parties, everyone is taking responsibility and taking care of this security. A few words on these speeches by Mr Yanar and Mr Kari when they called for police students from an immigrant background in education. Personally, I see no obstacle to it. I think it is very important that there are people in the police organisation regardless of their background. But at the same time, I think it is extremely important that everyone who enters that school door should have the exact same access requirements: the threshold is equally low or equally high for all. I do not think it is good that we are making a sort of bypass in this language issue or anywhere else. I trust that active and good immigrants will be able to master the Finnish language and — when they apply for police training — they will also be successful in police work. But it is precisely that everyone goes on the same terms, as well as access requirements. Let us be equal here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u46	Mr President! It is indeed a great thing that there is serious concern about safety in this house and that we do not overlook it. An increase in the feeling of insecurity among citizens is justified and justified and should be taken seriously. During the last parliamentary term, the opposition put 14 interim questions to the then government on the security of police services in the autumn. After all, the results of the policies adopted last period are clear: a lot of criticisms are being made about transport, for example, which has resulted from the abolition of the mobile police. This government, like the one we have just discussed, is making every effort to improve the situation by means of streamlining measures and various deregulation measures. This is the right line during a tense economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u47	Madam President! An increased feeling of insecurity may be unduly linked to the immigration situation today, and there has been a very strong and rather questionable response. I would have asked the Minister about these volunteers. street patrols and their activities at the moment and perhaps their prospects. This house is quite critical of that activity, and well so, depending on the background of their traffic. What prospects do you see now in their forces? In various parts of Finland, they seem to have been activated. I personally agree that there should be policemen and women from different ethnic backgrounds — I refer to my previous speech and also to the direction of integration, which I am sure will facilitate police work and also the situation of immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u48	Madam President! I do not believe that what I regard as a human being, Mr Hongisto, at the end of the day, even understood that Mr Yanar or the undersigned would have put forward some bypass lanes for people of immigrant background who are interested in police training, but rather we are looking for a marketing perspective or such a graduation path perspective far beyond any idea of bypass. I would like to ask what the government's line of action is in this regard in terms of increasing police training in immigrant backgrounds. I believe that would be of interest to the whole House.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u49	Madam President! Although there has been a deterioration in citizens' sense of security, I would nevertheless like to point out that the police's capacity to act as such has remained good throughout these years in its various areas. It is those years, as Mr Orpo has said here, that will be the main threats. And, of course, we all have our own responsibility to ensure that citizens are not intimidated by false threats. The police will still be able to act, but they will not be able to do so unless they are able to hold on to these resources specifically in the coming years, and that is a major concern. I would also like to say that the abolition of the mobile police did not reduce traffic control. It is an illusion which has been deliberately maintained, but these man-years were retained and even the precise number of man-years recorded by Parliament's decision. That is, of course, different if the overall number of police officers is reduced — then we will have fewer resources from every sector. I would also like to say that it would be very good for representatives of immigrant backgrounds and ethnic groups to be brought into the police, in exactly the same way as that participation of women. Police activity has been very positive and reassuring in many ways. One of the practical problems has been that the police need a good mother tongue. That cop's most important weapon is his mouth, which means he needs to be able to communicate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u50	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Kari for making it very clear that he did not mean any bypass in his own speech. This was a very good and clarifying information so as not to give the gym the wrong impression that some people or groups would be able to have easier or different access to police training. If I have interpreted this correctly, then this is not what Mr Kari meant, and we can be in a safe mind in that the threshold is just as low or as high for everyone. Thank you, Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u51	Madam President! It is important that the debate understands the difference between responding to crime and responding to a weakened sense of security. There are two different phenomena here which are not necessarily correlated in any way. When the problem is crime or crime prevention, it is necessary to increase police resources, and that is really the only way to do so quickly. When it comes to managing or restoring people's sense of security, we also have a whole range of other means at our disposal. It is known that people's sense of security is influenced by architecture, how the regions are built, how the regions are illuminated, how the regions are moved, how communities are formed. In total, this whole artificial palette is almost as effective, sometimes even more effective, than increasing police visibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u52	Let us take two speeches and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u53	Mr President! Just now, Mr Räsänen referred to this abolition of the mobile police. When this process was under way, it was said that these traffic control units would be set up, and thus traffic control and other tasks belonging to the mobile police will continue as before. However, when I have had a lot of discussions with policemen myself, the constant feedback has come from the fact that in practice there is less time for traffic control and things that in practice do not have traffic control, however, are recorded as traffic control tasks. I would therefore like Minister Orpo to be able to answer what is the real situation now that there are already the first signs of the abolition of the mobile police force. What feedback has been received by the Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u54	Madam President! There were street patrols in the speech by Mrs Katainen. As far as street patrols are concerned, the fact that some right-wing extremists are moving on that street as groups does not really add to the Finnish sense of security. I think we should bring this up like this. The Minister of the Interior has indeed, in fact, commendably pointed out that he does not approve of street patrols. But if you think of other ministers, including the Minister of Justice, Lindström, they have not taken a similar clear view of these street patrols. Has the government clarified its own line in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u55	Minister Orphan, please answer the question and then the list of speakers again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u56	Mr President! There was, of course, a wide-ranging discussion about the police, and it is a good thing that these matters are of interest. Let us start with that last point: yes, the government clarified its line very quickly, in line with the position of the minister, the minister responsible;
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u59	Madam President! I would like to thank the Minister for his good answers. It is important that, in these times, when it really is that people's experience of security is weakened, whether it is justified or not — in fact, Mrs Katainen quite rightly said that sometimes a little too much emphasis is given to some of the factors — there are people in the head of the state who, in this situation too calmly and yet with a human touch, make sure that order is maintained, as it were, also in the climate of society. That is why it was a valuable and important statement as far as these street patrols are concerned when this debate now went there. I want to thank you. It is good that, in this situation, the Minister for the Interior has been Petteri Orpo, who has also brought sensible proposals to asylum policy and immigration policy and will certainly continue to do so. But I do want to go back to this number of police officers. We proposed a small increase in the alternative budget for police training, and that is precisely why it is now urgent to take it up, because otherwise no money will be enough at the end of the spending limits period when the number of policemen is inexorably reduced to 7,000. I would like to go back to what the representative has to say. Mr Kivelä pointed out that in this Chamber, or in that other room last season, the issue of whether the government had managed to secure the number and resources of the police was actually even discussed. Pirkko Mattila, the first expert of the Finns Party at the time, also the chairman of the Administrative Committee, justified the intermediate question by the fact that the government has failed to establish the number of police officers at the level of the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u60	Madam President! First of all, as regards the question of police officers with foreign background, at least in Mäntsälä as early as the 1970s there was a police officer with foreign background when I was a police officer there. Although I didn't run into clients in the same ethnic group at the time. Mr Orpoa has been commended here on behalf of Mr Lindtman and others, and I would like to join in these thanks on two points. First of all, it was very good that Minister Orpo took a clear position on the patrols of these extremists on the right, on the streets. It certainly does not increase security, it only creates unnecessary work for the police. Secondly, I should like to thank Minister Orpo for the fact that in the last round of spending limits, however, some additional resources have been made available to the police. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that over the last few years, when reforms have been made in connection with the investigation of criminal offences or the search for or arrests, interrogations and so on, these reforms have always made it difficult for the police to act in order to prevent, detect and prosecute crime. I very much hope that this government will not make a single reform which, in the name of human rights and fundamental rights, will strengthen the role of villains and make the important work of the police even more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u61	Madam President! This proposal is an extension of the reform of the previous regime and then Minister for the Interior, Mr Räsänen, with regard to the regulation of the private security sector and the authorisation criteria, which was an excellent reform. In this proposal, it is proposed to amend the provisions on the recognition of a guardian, a guardian and a guardian so that the approval authority could be any police department rather than the police department of the applicant’s municipality of residence. I believe that this proposal is a very long way from the abolition of a mobile police force, and this has nothing to do with street patrols. The proposal itself is excellent and, as I said, a good continuation of the reform project of the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u62	Congressman Kivela. — — — —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u63	Mr President! When I didn't finish those compliments, I'd like to finish them. Really, in this matter of police training, the clock is ticking. This is urgent because no money is enough. And when I see that Mr Kivelä has taken the floor, I ask you now that if you thought that a government that cannot secure 7500 policemen would have deserved to fall, what is the situation now that this present government is inevitably taking the number of police officers to 7,000? That is why Parliament's Committee on Finance has had to correct some of the government's proposals here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u64	Mr President! Firstly, the internal security part of the Government Programme is good and realistic. It has been written very Earthly in the situation before the flow of immigration increased. Now I have to say that Mr Lindtman is now guilty of holding a chin party, that we are in the economic situation that, unfortunately, there are still such cuts in the number of policemen. But, as the Minister said, all the police have been employed, and vice versa: this is a serious issue. The government and the opposition must take this seriously in order to continue to bring people into police training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u67	Mr President! Yes, I must say that if I always admit that I will lose with Mr Kivelä, it will be at this chin party. When one remembers that Kivelä made arguments that now that the economic situation is so difficult and that the government has to make these cuts, and that is why we are now in this situation, I remember from the last debate on the interim question that it was stated that this was the last thing, that the condition for everything is that, no matter what cuts are made, the number of policemen will be secured. Now it seems that much is going under, which is why the Finns of Peru were still ready to overthrow the government in the last period. But perhaps, after all, this was a good debate, because there was a common concern here. In fact, this concern was expressed a long time ago by the Social Democrats last autumn, and I hope that the government will now take on this issue, as it has already done with some squirrels in this employment package, although they were a little slow.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u68	Madam President! I am sure that this whole legislative package has already been discussed several times, at least in this private security sector. And with regard to these chin parties, which Mr Kivelä has referred to here, of course, it would always be desirable for representatives of the government parties, including the present government parties, to be able to say, at least as open and honest as when they were in the opposition, that these things are not changed by being elected as a representative of the Government Party in Parliament. We have the same problems, regardless of the parliamentary term, one to the other, we do not make these laws, but this republic. Was Congressman Hongisto or... I do not remember now, I think there was Mr Kivelä who referred to this government programme record on internal security. In the same way and in the same spirit as I thanked and continue to thank the Minister for these good answers, I would like to hope that the government will have a little day-to-day vision of internal security that it described a year ago. It could be a place a little deeper to go through it at a time like this when we are now living, let alone towards the future to which we are going, with the government programme, when it is always the custom to get old, the opposition may think it is even faster than the government thinks. But I think we'll share this pain with each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u69	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank you for this excellent debate. Then to this important question by Mr Kari, the Government will bring the report on internal security to the attention of Parliament, hopefully in the coming weeks. It is a report that will be made for the first time, and to some extent it will be carried out hand in hand with the Foreign and Security Policy Report and the Defence Policy Report, in order to really create an overall security situation picture. There will be a review of our internal security situation, its threats and challenges, and then paint the path of hope on how to deal with these issues, and perhaps consider the resources needed for this. This internal security report will provide an excellent opportunity for Parliament to hold a debate on the state of our internal security and its needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u70	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Minister Orphan will introduce you, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u71	Madam President! The proposal proposes to tighten up the provisions on the conditions for family reunification of the Aliens Act. This bill is based on the Government Programme, but it has also come up with a difficult immigration situation, which affects both Finland and the reference group that is important to us, namely the other countries of the European Union. This issue has been outlined in the Government's asylum policy programme, and now we are at the front of the first legislative proposal to clarify the criteria for family reunification. The law would be amended in such a way that family members of beneficiaries of international and temporary protection would be required, subject to certain exceptions, to make a living regardless of the time when the family was formed in order to accept the application for family reunification. The change would concern the so-called old families of beneficiaries of international and temporary protection, i.e. situations in which the family was formed before the full-time family came to Finland, because so-called new families, i.e. situations in which the family was formed after the full-time family came to Finland, e.g. by marriage, are living conditions in accordance with the law in force. This will be done in practice in accordance with the EU's Family reunification Directive. The Directive was adopted in 2003 and implemented nationally in 2006. In the world at the time, the criteria provided for by the directive on family reunification were far from fully introduced, and now, in this situation where we are, we have felt that, while we still have an urgent need to make corrections and tighten up, even in line with the example of the international and our peers, we have chosen this means of making a living, and because, in this situation, when we have had some 34,000 asylum seekers in the last year, asylum decisions are now being taken at an accelerated pace, this issue is very topical. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that around 17,000 family members will be submitted and submitted this year with family reunification applications and next year with these amounts where we are now, up to 28,000 family reunification applications. That is why it is necessary to make this change now. I would also like to stress that, in line with the Nordic comparison, we are also at the same level as I see it as very important. We are supposed to bring this change into force as quickly as possible for the reasons that have just been mentioned. The Directive on family reunification contains a large number of other criteria, such as integration conditions, housing conditions, housing requirements, minimum age requirements and health insurance requirements. In this respect, this timetable would not have been possible in any way. These are still in the ministry, and after these reports we, together with the government parties, will assess their progress and the overall picture that this would entail. In the course of this same study, the Finnish and Nordic citizens who are now excluded from this proposal will also be thoroughly reviewed in the event of family reunification, i.e. excluded from the income support requirement. Its equality will also be clarified in the context of this follow-up study. Mr President! I consider this bill to be necessary in this situation in which we are. In the case of persons who enter Finland as quota refugees or who receive refugee status, the income requirement does not come into force until three months after the date of notification of its decision, i.e. they have no income requirement to apply for family reunification. This is an important addition. Mr President! I shall try to be present in this debate and to answer any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u72	At this point, let's take a little debatt for a while. I would now ask those Members who wish to use a one-minute reply to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u73	Madam Speaker! With this bill, I would also ask the Minister about further work within the legal framework. However, should there be further cross-sectoral legislative work on these issues, which would define the boundary between the various causes of immigration? There are asylum seekers, there are various family reasons, people who have come to study and work-related immigration. However, I would see that the main line cannot be the fight against all kinds of immigration and the inclusion of this condition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u74	Madam President! There are probably many different questions here, but if you look at this issue of income limits, it has been written in this government proposal, which does not specify the exact amounts, that there is room for flexibility or, for reasons of particular importance, there can be different treatment of income limits. How would the Minister describe this, then, which are these particularly powerful reasons, when would these income limits, which have now been in place, no longer be respected? Then the second question about these income limits is, in my opinion, related to this question of minors: if we have difficulty getting even our own children to work here in the summer — let alone getting such minors to work regularly — how can it be required then from young people from abroad who do not have the language skills and other skills at the same level as they should be?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u75	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Orpo for his previous answers on police matters. And I am a little surprised that such a moderate and intelligent minister is always presenting such a proposal. The question arises: Have you been held hostage by the Finns of Peru? In this Chamber, especially from the mouth of the Finns of Peru, many times have heard that why so many men come to Finland as asylum seekers and why we do not help more women and children. Has it occurred to these representatives that the government's proposal makes it even more difficult for women and children in need of international protection, and, in the worst cases, this proposal adds to all the smuggling of human beings?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u76	Mr President! This family reunification has also been tightened up over the years in Finland. When the government, in its own proposal, now follows quite a bit the line of the other European countries as well as the other Nordic countries, this tells us quite a bit that, when Europe is not able to manage this situation collectively, then it will lead each country to tighten its own terms. But perhaps I would have asked the Minister specifically about this point, which Mr Paatero has already raised. It's about these underage children. At the moment, when we have a lot of minors who have come alone who have already received a residence permit from Finland, and these tightening ups should also touch them, has this been thought through to the end? Do we not want to make life easier for the most vulnerable here in Finland? From this point of view, we should probably reconsider this restriction on minors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u77	Madam President! This refugee crisis has hit Europe for almost a year. The main problem is that the European countries have not received common solutions. It's clear. However, it is worth noting that Europe is developing, where all countries are tightening up family reunification practices. You can ask a question: can Finland stay out of this? And the answer is no. Yes, Finland also needs to look at and tighten up family reunification practices. But then there is also reason to look at the details of this bill, and one of them is the one raised by Mr Paatero and Mr Räsänen. Is it reasonable to extend this subsistence obligation to minors too, because this bill states that if this is done, it may increase the work of the authorities and it may also require more money to take care of children who do not have a family? Mr President, I would like the Minister to take a position on this and the committee to look at this point again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u78	Värderade fru talman! Det är uppenbart att huvudsyftet med den rai lagändringen är att regeringen vill att Finland inte längre ska framstå som ett attraktivt land för asylsökanden och flyktingar, och att man rai nog helt har glömt de humanitera aspekkerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u79	Madam President! Representative Aalto, the Minister of the Interior is not the hostage of the Finns, but the Minister of the Interior is implementing the Government Programme. In accordance with the Government Programme, it is the responsibility of Finland to reduce the attractiveness factors of asylum seekers, to ensure border security and to put into practice the excellent guidelines of the Government’s asylum policy programme, which are also linked to this tightening up of family reunification. And, as Mr Lindtman pointed out, not everyone in the opposition necessarily sees this as a bad starting point. But in further negotiations, when this working party is set up, we must get as many of the obligations that this EU directive allows into the law as possible and use the room for manoeuvre we have. And the citizens need to know — and also the left-wing opposition — that many EU countries, such as Norway, Denmark and Sweden, have already adopted much stricter practices than these Finnish proposals are at present. So I ask Minister Orpo whether the example of these other countries has been considered in order to introduce the same means in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u80	Madam President! These blackmails have been resisted on the grounds that they are likely to hamper the integration of people who have arrived here,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u83	Madam President! The Minister justified this proposal by the fact that this is in line with the directive. The aim of this directive is to promote family reunification. That is not what this government proposal does. It makes conditions more difficult and stricter, makes family reunification more difficult in many ways. This directive also states that Member States must not, however, make use of this margin in a way that would be contrary to the objectives of the directive. This paragraph lists all the issues in which we have our own national margin of manoeuvre. How can you justify that this is in accordance with the spirit of the directive or with the aim of this directive when it is not in black and white? How, Minister Orpo, a family in a country that is at war or in a country where a country has collapsed, can you enter the Finnish delegation, which is usually located in another country, a long and dangerous journey away, to demand documents, passports that people who are in war-torn, collapsed states rarely have? They have three months to get these papers and get into this country. How does this, Minister Orpo, contribute to family reunification?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u84	Madam President! I have to tell the Minister right away that this is a miserable and inhumane act and that people are denied the right to a family. That's all it's about. That's all it's about. I would like to see the Member of Parliament who thinks it is all right that he should travel and move to the other side of the world and not be given the right to his own family and whose family would be forced to stay in the middle of the war and who would be really happy with it. And I would also like to see the representative who would move to other parts of the world and start making more money right away than most of the majority of the population, and underage children will also be included in this. What kind of policy is this? It is incredible to see how cruel a civilised state can become, and you are still working on the reunification of Finnish families. I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u85	Madam President! The number of family reunifications receiving international protection is around 600 per year, which has been relatively low in recent years. The number of asylum seekers is likely to increase last year, but the whole picture of immigration is still not very decisive. The Christian Democrats consider it important that every child should have the right to a mother and father, but this amendment to the law would in practice take up this opportunity in a very large way. In this respect, this proposal should have been considered in greater detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u86	Mr President! It is very important that Finland also makes the stricter family reunification practices permitted by the EU directives, first this livelihood that we are now discussing, and then other blackmails in the report. Of course, it is not only a question of moderation but also of fairness to the Finnish taxpayer, but of removing vetoes, as we have talked about. We cannot afford to stand out at EU level from other Member States and, somehow, gulliblely bear a greater burden than others, but to follow the same rules as everyone else. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the timetable for these next proposals, and when will we be able to deal with them?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u90	Mr President! We're at the heart of humanity here, aren't we? It is now a question of the right to a family, which is a fundamental human right. In 2010-2012, stricter legislation on family reunification has already been introduced and the impact has not yet been assessed. We should now be patient, time-out and look at how these blackmails that have already taken place have contributed to family reunification. Minister Orpo and the Finnish People's Party and all those who support the government's proposal here, these income limits and income limits are basically the result of the fact that money determines who has the right to a family, and that is an untenable principle when it comes to family. This is a fundamental issue, and that is why this proposal cannot be supported. It is contrary to social democratic values.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u91	Mr President! It could be said that we are all prisoners of circumstances in the sense that we are not living in a sealed state, as Mrs Zyskowicz has said, among other things. We must follow the same line as other European countries. I was pleased to hear that Mr Lindtman, as chairman of the Socialist Group in Parliament, supported this government proposal and considered this to be good and proportionate. But, of course, it must be said in the same breath that, when it is stated in the government's proposal that the aim is to promote the integration of the beneficiaries of international protection, and thus of the family members, and so on, it must be acknowledged that the fact that the family cannot be united does, in my view, make it more difficult for them to integrate. However, in spite of this, we are still trapped in this situation, and when you look at these amounts that we can expect here for these family reunification applications and decisions, I think that this government proposal is quite justified under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u92	Värderade fru talman! Minister Orpo used the adjective "needy", not "good" or "justified" but "needed". The question then is whether it is necessary for this issue of immigration, or perhaps just for the sake of remaining united in the government. The government has been concerned about this issue of immigration. Last year's worry was that there's gonna be men. Now there's a way for women, for children, to stop it. It was said that immigration is out of control. There is now a manageable route and method. They want to stop it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u93	Mr President! The government's proposal to tighten up the family reunification of beneficiaries of humanitarian protection is extremely problematic. Family reunification has provided a legal route of entry, especially for women and children, who are particularly difficult to travel to Europe. It is a contradiction, as has been said here, that we should first ask why most men enter the country, but now, in practice, we are closing down the safe and legal route of entry for women and children. And, Mr Terho, at the same time, we are opening up more markets for human smugglers when legal channels of entry are blocked, thereby forcing women and children to become customers of human smugglers. The possibility of family reunification does not constitute a factor of attraction for those who do not need and receive protection, for only those who have a positive asylum decision, i.e. those who need protection, can have their families here through it after the residence permit has been issued. The right to family life is a factor of human rights and integration, and I would like the government to remember that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u94	Madam President! Surely there is no need to emphasize the meaning of the family — each one of us surely knows and feels it in his heart and mind. Unfortunately, in this government proposal there are many unfortunate things that are terribly difficult to accept. They have already been mentioned here, but this three-month deadline is completely incomprehensible, Minister Orpo. You yourself know very well that it is almost impossible to get documents and documents in conflict zones, war zones, within three months. And then you have to remember the situation of the Finnish embassies, they themselves are not feeling well at the moment: there are not enough workers. In Ankara, for example, the next free time is in four months.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u97	Mr President! Somehow when you listen here to the speeches of the representatives of the government parties and, in part, the Social Democrats, you forget that this is about the right children, the right mothers, the right fathers. Just a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister of Finland was involved in shaping an agreement with Turkey, which is quite widely condemned to violate international law and human rights. At that time we were told that this must be done, because the first priority is to combat trafficking in human beings. We know that, in a situation in which the conflict continues, the best way to combat human smuggling is to create legitimate routes to safety — so that people can be safe. This family reunification is that way. It is a way for the most vulnerable people to get to safety, to get their families to safety. It is quite incomprehensible that the government is now playing into the hands of smugglers, at a time when we all know that every father, every mother is doing everything in her power to get to their children. This is to support the smugglers' business.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u98	Madam President! This refugee crisis has really hit Europe and Finland, and it has been a good thing that Finland has been able to react quickly to the various problems and situations that have arisen and that we have also been able to act as a model country in these organisational centres. It is inevitable that European practices will be harmonised in order to manage the situation. And as has been said in this proposal, Finland's procedures will then come to the same level as the Nordic countries, and this inequality will be eliminated in this respect too. It is understandable that when it comes to large-scale crises involving people and families fleeing their country in distress, it is important that humanity and human rights are taken into account when the law is enacted. Balance in the situation is challenging, but managing the situation in this situation is now important and also the message that Finland is sending as part of Europe. That is why I consider it self-founded,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u99	At this stage, five replies will be made, followed by a reply from the Minister, and then the debate will continue. And these five people are representative Terho, representative Aalto, representative Kontula, representative Räsänen Päivi and representative Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u100	Mr President! To reply to these various speeches, which have already come along the way — with regard to the Socialists, I cannot answer now because the lunches seem to be mixed up and the message is quite contradictory so far. Maybe we'll find out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u105	Madam President! In answer to some of the questions raised by Mr Terho, it may be more of a measure to prevent integration. As has been said here in many speeches, this criterion of income level, 2600 roughly — how many Finnish workers deserve this amount, and how many Finnish children deserve this amount? And if the purpose of this proposal is to make Finland look as repugnant as possible in the eyes of asylum seekers and the entire international community, then it has been successful, Mr Terho. If the purpose of this proposal is to reduce the cost of immigration, how much will the cost of immigration be reduced by making integration as difficult as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u108	Madam President! This is not a question of harmonisation; there are still significant differences between European family reunification practices. Both the old model of Finland and the model presented here are also different from all other models used in Europe. If I read that proposal correctly, the government has carried out an assessment of the situation that we could not afford to guarantee everyone the right to a family, and then, when the qualifier begins to be made, from whom the right is dropped, it is done on a income-based basis: let's drop it from the poorest. In other countries in Europe, family reunification has been restricted, but by very different means. There are different definitions of ensuring income, then there are different deadlines, there are different other conditions. On what basis did it come to this, first and foremost, to eliminate the low incomes from those who are allowed to live with their loved ones?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u109	Madam President! Of course, it is important for the Member States, from the point of view of a single European asylum policy, to have as uniform family reunification practices as possible. At the same time, however, we must remember that the main objective of the directive on family reunification is precisely to be able to secure the right to family reunification. I have one particular concern about this, namely the possibility of making a living condition for family reunification of beneficiaries of international protection, not only within the framework of the EU directive, but also within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. After all, the Ministry of the Interior carried out a study in 2012 which concluded that the income requirement cannot be imposed on family members who would be threatened by the treatment provided for in this European Convention on Human Rights in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u110	Two more replies, Mr Karimäki and Mr Lindtman, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u111	Mr President! The government's proposal is unhumane, as in practice it prevents asylum seekers from having their own family, loved ones and loved ones in Finland. Representative Terho said above that this would encourage work and help integrate, but I can tell him that in many service sectors a hardworking asylum seeker cannot get his spouse and two children to Finland because of these income limits. You were also surprised that it has been said in this Chamber that this would increase the use of dangerous routes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u114	Mr President! The Social Democrats have already suggested that this should, at least initially, be the case with Nordic common practices — and I ask whether this has progressed now — rather than each country doing separately, a little as it is on the basis of this draft law. Then I will say that, specifically for minors, the line is that yes, all countries must look at it, but there are undoubtedly some problematic points in this proposal that we have raised, particularly these minors, who are at risk of increasing human smuggling. But then I think the news of the day was that, Minister, you said that you were still considering setting these income limits also for Finns and Nordics. This is also the question of whether these income limits are above and beyond, when these same income limits apply to everyone. Are these in place? 2600 is pretty big. This is the decision of the Immigration Service. Can you influence the income threshold set by the Finnish Immigration Service?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u115	Then Minister Orphan, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u116	Mr President! If we start from this last point of view, we have looked at Finland as being at the Nordic level. That is where I made sure that this type of reform has been carried out in Sweden. In these humanitarian matters, I am used to thinking of Sweden as a reasonably good analogue country. With regard to these minors, which rose in several speeches, I would like to emphasise first of all the individual treatment. In the case of minors, individual treatment and consideration are absolutely necessary, but according to our experts — that is to say, experts are divided on these issues — it is the case that if there is no requirement for minors to have an income limit, it could cause what is known as an anchor child phenomenon, in which case children would be sent first. This is a typical question. I see that this also divides the Chamber, but this is a typical issue relating to these immigration issues. We are not dealing with nice things, and we cannot just make nice decisions, because this whole thing is a hugely complex and difficult entity for which we also have to find solutions. Some of them are pragmatic. And yes, it does not feel good to take all those decisions, but in many ways the most necessary legislation that we currently have has been created in a different situation. Last year 1.3 million asylum seekers came to Europe, 34,000 to Finland. You can see the current situation in southern Europe on the border between Kosovo and Greece. It's shocking. The EU-Turkey Agreement seeks its form in order to make it work. From Libya to Italy, the rubber boats of smugglers are killing people. We must get this whole thing under control, but as long as we do not have the faith and the certainty that the European Union will be able to manage the situation together, to prevent what happened last autumn, so long we will be in a position to harmonise European criteria, and when we do not yet have the uniform European asylum system, which the Commission is now building, we will have to react to what the other Member States are doing, because we do not have a uniform asylum system or uniform legislation. And yes, we are applying the EU directive, the possibilities it has within it of the basis on which family reunification can be regulated. As I said, this income threshold was the fastest to move forward in this situation. Moreover, these many others, whom I have listed, are not at all unambiguous about how they are interpreted and how they are transposed into the legislation, and it is absolutely necessary to go through them. This assessment was more unambiguous in the expert working group. The next thing is that the income limit is not cut in stone. It is not prescribed by law, it is the Migri table, and it can be derogated from it because everyone is treated individually.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u119	And then the debate goes on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u120	Mr President! I believe that there is one thing we agree with in this Chamber, and that is the phenomenon of last year that hundreds of thousands, millions of people are going to Europe with the idea that, as it were, they are sending through the strongest dangerous conditions in the family and then later, by means of family reunification, some of them are trying to get the rest of their families here — we have to get rid of this in itself. We need to get into the world to which the Minister in this respect pointed out that this kind of dangerous journey and trafficking in human beings will end and would rather be taken in large numbers like quota refugees, when of course families will then be evacuated, when families are involved, and, in a way, this issue will also be dealt with in that regard if that world is reached. In my opinion, Finland must also actively drive this in Europe and create a clear mandatory system, otherwise this will not happen. But there is also a great deal of agreement that it makes no sense for European countries to compete with different systems in this respect, and then it cannot be clearly easier for Finland to have a family together than in other countries. That is why the government itself is making understandable steps at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u121	Mr President! This debate and a few other debates are examples of globalisation challenging our morals in a very violent way. These are difficult things from a moral point of view. Years ago, during the 2007 parliamentary term, there was quite a lot of discussion about beggars on the streets of Helsinki, whether they should be banned from begging or allowed to be there when they do not bother. Many persons who consider themselves a Christian have had to think morally about what it means to walk past a beggar and not give money, even though Sunday school taught me to give money to a beggar. In this connection, we have had to think about these attraction factors and somehow resolve them — this is a difficult moral issue. And now it is a matter of the same kind that, when people move freely, they seek asylum, the way in which we act here. I think the problem with the government's proposal is that there is a little too much optimism in the sense that we have huge unemployment and that it is difficult for the unemployed people in Finland to find work, and when we have more asylum seekers, how will they earn a living?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u122	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Orpo, for your good speech. Just now, we were all listening here very calmly, and your words were heard. The aim of this proposal is therefore to curb immigration and reduce costs and, among other things, to ensure that Finland does not appear to be a particularly attractive country of asylum. I would have asked you, Minister, when you have moved around the world and been at the heart of this crisis, how you feel about Finland being an attractive asylum seeker. This is an EU directive-based proposal, and I would like to ask whether the authorities are aware of any attempt to abuse family reunification here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u123	Madam President! As Mr Kantola said, there are wide-ranging moral issues here. During the previous debate, Minister Orpo was praised a lot, and I think one more compliment will fit in with that basket of praise. Thank you for the presence of the Minister when the referral debate on such a sensitive matter takes place. With this in mind, I hope that in committee the government parties and the minister will also take the opposition here with a sensitive ear, and why there are no key questions about income limits within the government, the relationship between family reunification and integration, minors and so on. But in this basic career I am very much in line with Group President Lindtrma's view that it is necessary to harmonise Nordic practices and to harmonise European practices. In that respect, I do support the construction of this basic government line, but I hope, of course, that these problems will be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u124	Madam President! Yes, there is such a wide-ranging and long-term problem in our hands, and it does respond to similar difficult moral problems, which have been justified on both sides and in other words very convincingly. I understand very well, for example, that lowering that income limit would be a very relevant place to think about, and of course the requirement for individual treatment of minors must be fulfilled. At the same time, however, I also ask why Finland would have to be somehow more attractive than other Nordic countries, because we also have to take responsibility for this excessive immigration in the long term. We all hope that integration will be the most successful process at the end of which there will be well-integrated new Finns who are also attached to working life,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u125	Madam President! I have to say that it is shocking to look at the way in which the EU is managing the refugee situation, and Finland is just as responsible for this as the EU — Finland is an impressive country in the EU. I am very disappointed at the choices made by a democratic and human rights-respecting community of values in this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u128	Mr President! Surely each of us in this Chamber has noticed that, here too, it is much easier to look for problems in this proposal itself than in the situation where we are. But when we go looking for solutions, it will be a little quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u131	Madam President! When the Minister asked for some solutions in that way, I could say one thing: the fact that the EU's family reunification directive allows these changes is quite true, but it does not oblige us to make these changes directly. The directive also allows for less stringent conditions. For example, that three-month period of protection for refugees is the minimum period of the directive. You could set the length of the time. As Mr Modig pointed out earlier, the first step is to inform the family and the relatives should be able to make the application to the Finnish embassy. And as Mr Modig pointed out, there is no embassy in nearly all the countries of crisis, there is not necessarily money, there are no identity papers. This is going to make things worse. You were talking about solutions. Of course, it is understood that we are facing a difficult situation, but do not make this even more difficult and costly for Finland and also humanly even more difficult for the whole situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u132	Madam President! We have been asked if we ourselves would be satisfied if we were in a situation like this. I'm sure we wouldn't be. And here it is very easy to call the government's proposal unhumane, inhumane, But then there's the other side. Do you want Finland to be an exceptionally attractive country, so that thousands of tens of thousands of asylum seekers come to Europe specifically across all other countries, come to Finland precisely because, unlike all other countries, it would be easier to connect their families with Finland? Is this what you want? If you don't want this, will you shut your eyes to this question? After all, it is quite clear and humanly understandable that if we have one country here in the bottom of the ground, where we can have a family much easier than anywhere else in Europe, then that country will be attractive and sought.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u133	Mr President! Reasoning that this is a common European line or a Nordic line is a matter of hollowness. There is a certain type of alley running, "race to the bottom", as they say, at the end of which there is a decay of humanity. Finland must now find its own way, our own line, our vision to deal with this issue. And what, President-in-Office, is the most topical issue at the moment? It's integration. We should now look actively at integration policy. What's the key to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u136	Then we will take Mr Terho, Mr Razmyar and Mr Sarkkinen, then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u137	To the previous speech that young men are coming here to unite their families, I would like to comment to the extent that I understood that they come here because they are in danger of life in their own country. Then this question of humanity, what we have been running around here all the time. This humanity theory has been addressed at EU level and has now been jointly defined, and we are following this EU level. Finland's solution must also be in line with that level, because we cannot afford to deviate from it. On this human smuggling argument too, which was totally unproven by the Greens: I am now answering it so much that I am surprised that you are concerned about the smuggling of human beings first and then condemn the good and decisive measures taken by the EU against the smuggling of human beings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u138	Madam President! It is absolutely true that it will not be possible to resolve this matter until the EU is able to manage this situation, and of course Finland must be involved in it. But I would also say to Mrs Terho, when you said in your previous speech that this family reunification has nothing to do with integration, that you are very wrong about it, because obviously the family has something to do with how a person can be here. Secondly, it is absolutely true that work needs to be done and that work is very important and important, but if our priority is to work only and make as much money as possible, then, unfortunately, alongside it, language training and other education will be completely secondary, and that is something we do not necessarily want, Minister. I would still have asked about this three-month deadline: is this something we could perhaps give up? And I hope that we will be able to correct some of these other shortcomings in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u139	Mr President! I would like to take up the Minister's reference to anchor children. In 2013, the guardian of one minor receiving international protection received a residence permit based on family ties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u143	Then Minister Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u144	Mr President! First a few details, but important ones. In my opinion, this question is that if the next free time to the embassy is only after that deadline, it is something that must be dealt with in committee, because that window must be. I think that's a question that needs to be considered. Similarly, these income limits, which are based on cooperation between Migri and STM, are such that I think it is possible to go through the process of determining these income limits to the level at which they are in these indicative indicative tables of Migri. Then there is one further question that was not answered. Why we need to look at this again for the Nordic and Finnish citizens is primarily about whether it complies with the principle of consistency — I hope I used the right term. In that sense, it still has to be done, but on the other hand it will obviously also be done in connection with this law here in Parliament. Is Finland attractive from a European perspective? This is, as has been said many times here, unfortunately also a brutal race between EU countries at the moment, and the reason was what I said earlier. This is because we do not have a common European immigration and asylum policy. As the crisis progresses, these situations have still varied rapidly. In some areas, Finland has been very attractive, such as family reunification, or because of the definition of a security situation in one of the countries of origin, i.e. the likelihood of positive asylum decisions. That is why it has caused a country’s citizens to have a relatively higher income in Finland. In other words, yes, Finland is attractive in some areas, but we have tried to make these solutions, and we are doing them all the time, with which we would be at the European level and, at least, what is important, at the Nordic level, when we do not have any specific traction factors. Then I will say it again when last week the Commission presented a proposal for the development of the European asylum system, that it was not just a question of reforming the Dublin system, which, of course, is one of the hard points and will raise a very great deal of debate because it includes, among other things, these possible mechanisms for allocating asylum, or at least their proposals. But what is much more relevant is that this proposal starts for the first time at the initiative of the Commission to discuss the reform of the asylum system as a whole and of the immigration policy, when it has to be based on the fact that we have the most uniform practices in the various countries of the European Union. We must have clear policies at the external borders, we must have a clear process when the asylum seeker comes: how he is treated, how the processes go, how to complain. I believe that all these issues need to be addressed and the necessary legislative changes made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u145	There is still a desire to take part in the debatable round so that the Minister will also be given the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u146	Madam President! Of course, it must be acknowledged that there is certainly a difference in world image between, for example, the Greens and the True Finns. You are talking about asylum seekers as every refugee, you are suggesting that everyone, even before there is refugee status, has a legitimate reason to come to Europe, while many studies show that many of these people are seeking a better standard of living and there is no justifiable persecution or similar reason. Another interesting point was Mrs Tuppurainen, who admitted that many of these young men — rarely though, also admitted that most of them are young men who have come to Finland — really want to come for reasons other than their own protection, in order to bring someone else here. Here we must be vigilant and keep the line that is a common Nordic line. And a joint Nordic line is currently being created, for example, by Sweden, where an age limit has been introduced, for example, for the spouse, common-law spouse and the family-gatherer. If we were to make a joint Nordic line out of these, the same cry from the Greens would come as it is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u147	Madam President! I would like to say to Mrs Elo: You're always talking about living standards refugees. Now you are talking about people coming here for a better life and not having rights. Well, they don't, because they're not refugees in that case. Anyone has the right to go to another country and look for work and ask me if I can stay here and try to build a life. It's completely different than being a refugee. There are international humanitarian criteria for who fulfils the definition of a refugee. Family reunification, all these other issues concern only refugees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u150	Madam President! First of all, a correction for Mr Modig: it is precisely working immigrants who already have these living conditions — that is, they already have these living conditions. Now they're going to have secondary protection in the same group. But this basic question: Let us ask whether we would like to be in the position of these asylum seekers. We wouldn't want to. Would we want to if we were our family? Yes, we would. There is no doubt about this. This is the other side of the matter. The other side is whether we want Finland to be exceptionally attractive from the point of view of asylum seekers here in the Finnish Parliament. Do we really want to repeat what happened last year? I'll ask you again, someone answer. Do we want tens of thousands, at best hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers from southern Europe, to come across Europe because, for example, family reunification is more possible in Finland than in other countries? Will you ignore this problem or will you allow it to happen again?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u151	Madam President! Of course, it is quite clear that solutions at EU level must be found, but, in return, I ask Mr Zyskowicz whether a coalition that speaks in a spirit of savings wants to increase costs by increasing bureaucracy, increasing the number of self-employed asylum seekers, increasing costs by reducing integration and increasing costs by congesting Finnish embassies. Perhaps that is the most important question relating to this social image, and I ask you, Mr Zyskowicz, whether you want a rule of law in which the exercise of human rights and the right to family rights, among other things, depends on people's income and wealth. All people are equal to each other, but apparently some people are even more equal depending on their wealth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u152	Madam President! I'm responding to Representative Aalto. First of all, as far as savings are concerned, this is not a savings law. But I ask Mr Aalto: which costs are higher, those that come here from the possible increase in red tape in income analysis, or those that come from the fact that tens of thousands of asylum seekers arriving in Europe are specifically seeking in Finland, not in Germany, not in Austria, not in Denmark, not in Sweden, not in Norway, but precisely in Finland, because of this possibility of family reunification that is clearly more permissive for us than for all other European countries? I wonder whether it will cost more: these bureaucratic costs or what happened last year — tens of thousands of Iraqis across Europe still arrived in Finland? Is this what you want? Will you close your eyes on this side, which is also relevant here, or do you want this? Let me be frank: I do not want tens of thousands of Iraqi asylum seekers here every year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u153	Madam President! I will ask Mr Zyskowicz how much it costs to make integration impossible. Every debate repeats over and over again how expensive it is precisely because the integration of people who have come to Finland cannot be achieved, and now we are trying to make legislation that significantly reduces people's chances of integration. Of course, the greying Finland also needs new people, which is also a terriblely important issue. Even one might imagine that the coalition that speaks of the economy wants to improve the dependency ratio in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u154	Mr President! First of all, I think it is important that these income limits do not apply to Finnish citizens, I think that this is the right line and that already solves quite a lot on this issue. Then I would also like to say that if we did not follow the practices of the other Nordic countries, we would act in such a way that it is difficult for me to understand how we would be the only one who is not involved in this. I'd like to ask Mr. Aalto: Your brother party is in the Swedish government. How could they have been involved in the government in making even stricter policies there if these realities of the world were not at present such that realism must now be overcome by idealism and look at these things on a realistic basis?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u155	Madam President! This is more or less an untruthful argument. I don't know if anyone's read this bill themselves. It is already indicative of this that there is no 'other European countries' and then a lonely Finland that lets the doors and windows be open. There are a terrible number of different solutions to manage family reunification, even in the Nordic countries. It is not necessary for Finland to come to just the kind of decision that is being made in this proposal. Mr Zyskowicz asked whether we wanted a repeated liberal family reunification policy last autumn. Last fall. Sweden had a more liberal family reunification policy than we do, and yet Sweden came to us for tens of thousands. In my opinion, it is a good example and tells us that family reunification practices alone do not lead people to make these choices, to which
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u156	Madam President! Representative Aalto asked how much it would cost if integration was not successful and so on. It's a lot of money. But do you know, Mr Aalto, it will cost even more if there are thousands or tens of thousands more to integrate, will it not? The failure of integration costs money, but if there are thousands or tens of thousands more asylum seekers every year, thanks to the fact that we do not have a situation of family reunification that exists in all other countries, it will be very much more expensive. But, Mr Aalto, as I said, this is not primarily a savings law. Mr Kontula, I have read this motion, and here on pages 14, 15, 16 we are told that virtually all other European countries are or are in the process of tightening up the family reunification of beneficiaries of international protection. If Finland did not do anything that you obviously support, of course we would be an exceptionally attractive country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u157	Mr President! This debate in the Finnish Parliament and all the other debates in the parliaments of other EU countries reflect to a large extent what the European Union decided already in 1999, under the Finnish Presidency, that an integrated asylum and immigration policy was needed in the Union. It is because of this lack that we are now in this swamp that we are going to have this bickering in the parliament of every country. But in connection with the present presentation, perhaps the three main problems: The first is precisely this situation of underage children, and there has been a lot of discussion about it. I would like the committee to be vigilant. The second relates to the deadline for asylum seekers, this three months, which is too short. Thirdly, there are these income limits, which could be flexible downwards. On these issues, I hope that the Administrative Committee will then look and think about how to improve this slightly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u158	Mr President! In my opinion, the speech by Mr Zyskowicz here does have that everyday realism. We have to react, and these relationships are what they are. Of course, I understand the human aspects, but we are forced to strike the right balance from the point of view of aid and the structure and sustainability of our society. But I think that if someone gets a legal residence permit here in Finland, it is certainly a little problematic if the income limits are such that even if they get a full-time job through collective agreements and otherwise through proper pay, then even after that these incomes would not be enough for this. In my view, this is an issue to which the Minister referred in his reply, and I am sure that it will be worth checking which are the appropriate limits from this point of view, and also, of course, from the point of view that if someone actually gets a residence permit, then the integration will be helped by the fact that the family issue is also in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u159	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Loh, for that constructive speech. It is in this way that if we look, we will find the way of Finland and the way of the country that supports the integration of those who have arrived here. In Sweden, for example, when reference has been made to this Nordic reference field several times, these increases have been made on a fixed-term basis — fixed-term. In our view, these tightening ups will be made valid for the time being, which is absolutely absurd. As far as Mr Elo's view is concerned, that there have now been many young men here last year, this is the case and there is a natural reason for it: young men have fled the Syrian war, Isis' terror in Iraq,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u160	Mr President! It is interesting, of course, to escape the Syrian conflict from Iraq, but to answer the question of why the Iraqis from Sweden have come to Finland after all, even though Sweden has had a liberal family reunification policy, it is because they have known from the statistics that the Iraqis in Finland have received a better residence permit and, in fact, family reunification.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u163	Madam President! As far as different studies are concerned, it is good to look at a few different studies. In Sweden, too, it has been estimated that foreigners are also behind economic growth. I think it's a representative. The salmon made a good speech here earlier. It is quite clear that Finland should react as part of the European Union, but how to react, this is the steak of the matter. Mr Satonen: As Mr Tuppurainen has already said, there is a fixed-term question in Sweden. Greens in Sweden, Greens in Finland are not brothers to one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u164	Mr President! As far as this dependency relationship is concerned, it is important that the dependency ratio improves, and that is why, for example, we are very much in favour of work-related immigration, of course, at the moment mainly in those sectors where we have labour shortages. However, in the interests of honesty, it must be said that this asylum policy will take a long time before the dependency relationship starts to improve, but in the early stages the effect will be quite the opposite. But I agree with what the representative has said. The salmon here said, and to what Tuppurainen also pointed out, that when you are able to support yourself here and support your family, then you must have the right to have that family reunification. As far as I know, this income threshold can take into account, for example, actual housing costs, which, for example, may be significantly lower in rural areas than in the capital region or in large cities. This flexibility already exists and will continue to exist here. I hope that it will be used in those situations when it is possible and sensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u165	Unfortunately, this flexibility is also being used up today. Mr Elo, based on what we know at the moment about the events of last autumn, the most likely reason why so many people specifically sought for Finland was the false rumours about the situation in Iraq, not the information on how our system works, but what was not known about it — perhaps as a single symbolic act. Sipilä's promise to introduce his own farm for asylum seekers. Mr Zyskowicz, you are right that family reunification is being tightened up in most countries, but the conditions for family reunification can be tightened in many different ways and in different countries it has been done in different ways. Now Finland is doing unilaterally to deprive the poor of their right to a family. Various solutions have been made in other countries, both at different levels and at different levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u166	Madam President! These asylum seekers, who came last autumn, are young men with no family in large part. The blackmail now planned, what is being done, prevents the family from being searched for later in the country. I personally believe that integration for such immigrants can be better achieved when it is a Finnish family. Minister Orpo spoke well about the fact that we need to look at this Nordic level. In Denmark, there are the following requirements for foreigners and nationals: the 24-year age limit for married and cohabiting spouses and the family-gatherer in the family reunification of spouses. Norway is about to introduce a 24-year age limit for family reunification according to the example of Denmark for its citizens, and also for foreign nationals, of course. Norway is also extending the requirement for the full-time residence of the family member to four years. And then Sweden is expanding its livelihood to its citizens
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u167	Madam President! Mr Salmon spoke well, saying that, for example, these income limits are too high. There are other criticisms here. What bothers me, for example, in this proposal is that the Minister has said over there that you will be blackmailing them, or you will be clearing them up, but in English that means that you will be blackmailing this situation. So you will not take any account of these matters in practice. The second thing is that you also talked about the fact that Finns are coming into income limits, or you are going to find out, but in practice that also means it. These words and actions do not meet well. Would you now be able to clarify what is happening here, namely whether there will be further blackmail, or do you take these criticisms into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u168	There are still three speeches on the list before the Minister can reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u169	Madam President! Here both representatives Aalto and Kontula said that 'we do not accept your solution'. I was waiting for your solution. Do you wish to tighten the conditions for family reunification, for example by extending the period of residence, age limits or other solutions presented by Mr Eerola in other countries? There is no answer to this. Then Mr Aalto knew that there would be no quantities that I have brought up here. We considered all of these to be absolutely impossible quantities until last year. Tens of thousands came in one year. President! A basic question to which I have not received an answer: Faced with these human problems and humanitarian problems, which are real, I have asked you what your attitude towards this other side is, that is, that Finland should not do these things and be an exceptionally attractive country throughout Europe. How do you feel? Do you close your eyes on this side or do you think that we welcome tens of thousands of new asylum seekers to Finland every year? Finally, yes, these details should be looked at in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u170	Madam President! We need to harmonise these practices both in the Nordic countries and in Europe, i.e. I am not one of those who... In this regard, this may be in response to Mr Zyskowicz. But that is what I would like to say to Mr Zyskowicz: if, for the exodus after the Holocaust of World War II, Europe had acted even more humanely — or the United Kingdom, the United States — then perhaps many problems could also have been prevented in advance, That is why I am pleased to be on the Committee on Administrative Affairs to deal with this issue, because there is also a good spirit of cooperation in the Committee on Administrative Affairs to deal with difficult issues. There are times when, in this Chamber, there is a feeling that even the representative needs asylum when the atmosphere is exorbitantly tense.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u171	Mr President! If nothing is done, as the opposition demands here, it is of course quite clear that Finland's appeal to other countries will increase when others do so by blackmail. In this respect, it is quite honest that, right now, before we are in these situations and in the figures mentioned by the Minister — this year 17,000, next year 28,000 plus then the effects of growth — these decisions must be taken. This decision, which is in line with the EU directive, is a wise decision. It has often been established here that the condition of living is always assessed on a case-by-case basis, as stated in Article 39 of this proposal. In this sense, this is as if temporary, so Migri can review these limits at any time. This is precisely the wise course and the responsible course for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u172	The Minister for Orphans will then finish for five minutes, and then we will go to that list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u173	Mr President! First of all, I will read a small section: "The right to family life is a fundamental right, which is protected, among other things, by Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has stated that it does not consider it unreasonable to require a resident to provide sufficient independent, permanent income to enable him to provide for the livelihood of a family member for family reunification, but it has nevertheless examined whether the income requirement in individual cases is reasonable." This is what we are proposing, because it does, however, include an individual examination. Once again, I think it is a good idea to go over it in committee. So now the figures that have been discussed are based on cooperation between STM and Migri. Together with Migri, STM has assessed the level needed to avoid having to rely on income support. But I hope that you will deal with and go through everything further in committee. I will take these Nordic countries as an example. First of all, I think that Sweden is the most important analogue country for us and, in particular, because Norway is not part of the European Union, Denmark has negotiated an independent immigration policy in the Accession Treaty and Iceland may not be so relevant. So this shows how difficult this environment is. And when we also look at how asylum seekers are located in European countries, we will find the axis Austria-Germany-Hollanti-Denmark-Sweden-Finland. So comparing these countries is essential and I think that this proposal is very balanced. More generally: It is today that we are in a situation where 42 asylum seekers have arrived in Finland in the last seven days. In September we lived one day when there were 650 asylum seekers — one day. Well, there are many reasons for this, but one reason that has led to a significant reduction in the number of asylum seekers is that we have been blackmailing across the legislation and our policies and harmonising them to a European level and precisely in relation to these control countries. But to be honest, it must also be said that Sweden, for example, started November 22nd. It is not the spirit of the Dublin Treaty that we can just walk through the countries. In other words, there is a question of such a complex whole that it all has an impact on everything, and although it may sound like a yawning, I still say that the only lasting and humane solutions can be found in the fact that we will find a common European policy on asylum and immigration in the weeks and months to come. For its part, the Government will re-establish its own positions in the forthcoming ministerial committees, and then, of course, the parliamentary committees, the administrative committee and the large committee, as a matter of priority, will be involved in this line of work. It is now very important that Finland is active, and that is what we have been.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u174	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u175	Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, Finland is responsible for reducing the attractiveness of asylum seekers, ensuring our border security and putting into practice the excellent guidelines of the Government’s asylum policy programme. The programme includes tightening the conditions for family reunification. This proposal to amend the foreign law is an urgent one, because as the waves of the migration crisis roar, the tightening of the living conditions must be brought into force as soon as possible. If the family has spouses and two children, for example, the full-time person must have a net income of EUR 2,600 per month, otherwise he cannot bring his family to Finland. Bearing in mind that certain subsidies, such as child allowances or student grants, are counted as income, the net income threshold set is entirely reasonable. Further negotiations of a working group set up by the government must set out as many obligations as possible under the Directive and the implementation of which has been agreed by one government. These include the requirement for residence and residence time, the age and language skills of the spouse and the full family. In the case of language skills, the family-gatherer should pass a Finnish-language test at some level in order to apply for a residence permit for his or her family members. The same requirement could also be made for family members seeking to be here. In addition, a family collector should be required to live for two years in Finland, before which the family cannot apply for a residence permit. The public should be aware, and the left-wing opposition should be particularly aware, that the tightening up of family reunification has already taken place far more widely in the rest of Europe. In Denmark, Norway and Sweden, for example, an age limit has been set for the spouse and cohabiting spouse and for the congregator. In these countries, those seeking real security will have the right, in accordance with the directive, to unite their families in one way or another. Several other countries have imposed all kinds of other conditions and conditions that effectively prevent the refugee status of living standards. The Social Democrats have shown considerable leeway in the party's immigration policy line, as evidenced not only by this debate that took place today, but also by the policies of the party's chairmen in recent years. Yle News of August 12, 2010, reported how Mr Urpilainen very critically criticized the refugee policies of the so-called Nuiva Manifesto. Antti Rinne, Chairman of the Social Democrats, commented to Yle News on 8 December 2015 that the Government's immigration policy action programme seems very good. "It appears at this time that the SDPcan support all "—all—"measuresandissupportingthatitshouldbeexportedwards",Rinnetotesi. Honorable Speaker! In its editorial of 16 January 2016, the evening paper estimated: "The Nuiva Election Manifest published in the 2011 Parliamentary elections is largely a reality." Thus, the immigration policy opposed by the Demari under the leadership of Urplainen in 2010 is a reality supported by the Demari under the leadership of Rinte in 2016. And, as we may have heard today from group leader Lindtman, I think there's still something to brush in the group so that everyone can come to this line at Rinte and Lindtman. True, this line is implemented by the government, where the immigration policy line instead of the demars is driven by the Finns of Finland in a consistent line. A comrade's guild will turn around with the times in question. The Government's proposal is a good start to the full application of the directive on family reunification. If no reforms are made, Finland's family reunification policy is at risk of becoming the most inexhaustible attraction to asylum seekers in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u176	Mr President! Throughout the last year in Finland, we talked about why we are helping only men, why we are not helping women, why we are not helping children. Now that we finally have a chance to help these women and children, the government will slam the door in front of them. We know that the majority of people who fled to Europe this year are women and children. There have been fewer of them in the past because there have been no safe routes. Fathers, brothers, and sons have taken a dangerous flight first because they have the best chance of surviving it. Women and children followed, they only came when there was no other choice, and they need protection now. Mr President! The Finnish Government has just signed an agreement with Turkey, where international law and human rights have been abandoned. The only reason for this absurdity was because we now want to combat the smuggling of human beings. We all know in this Chamber that the best way to reduce people's smuggling is to reduce despair and create safe routes out of the war. Family reunification is such a safe route. Closing this route increases despair, it increases insecurity, it leaves families at the mercy of criminals. Every father knows that he would do anything to have a family with him, every mother realizes that there is no money in this world that is not willing to pay for having her own child again, and every person realizes that taking a parent from a child is the cruelest thing a person can do, and that is what this performance is. It's cruel, it's inhuman, and it's wrong. Mr President! With this presentation, the government will build a tough world — a world where the right to one’s own child depends on the thickness of the wallet. In the government world, a person who works for a nearby nurse, kindergarten teacher or bus driver has no right to have his or her own spouse and children in this country safe. When the same income limit was presented to Finns, everyone in this room was furious because everyone understands that in this country the right to a family does not belong only to the rich. In practice, family reunification of refugees has already been made completely impossible, but this situation is particularly terrible for lonely children, whom the Minister previously called anchor children. The prospect of having a child fleeing the horrors of war with his family is almost nonexistent at the moment — now it is made completely impossible. While we are living in the midst of an historic humanitarian crisis, the human government would at the moment present us with a proposal on how to facilitate family reunification and not close the last window that is still open. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government! You are now being appealed to by all human rights organisations from Unicef to Amnesty, from Children to the United Nations Refugee Agency. All the religions of this country now appeal to you from the archbishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church to the head of the Jewish churches, from the archbishop of the Orthodox Church to the head of the Islamic Church and to the bishop of the Catholic Church. But if even this does not cause the government to wake up and see the cruelty of this performance, then there are truly dark times in this country. You are now being appealed to by all those who defend human dignity and the family. Be human. Don't break up families. I want you to cancel this show.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u177	Madam President! In due course, the system of international law was created for tight spots. It was created for the moments when the discretion of the nation states cannot be fully trusted, because it was learned through experience that it was not always to be trusted. I say that one thing costs more than any of our other options, and that is the question of human rights. We cannot afford that, and especially in times of crisis we cannot afford it. "The cruel"is perhaps the best way to describe the law, which the stated aim is to keep the most multi-family So this is the stated objective of this law. The conditions for family reunification are already far too strict. Family reunification must be applied for in a country in which Finland has representation and in which it resides legally. In practice, this means that, somewhere in Africa, family reunification is simply not possible; people cannot afford it. They will not be able to travel through conflict areas through these Finnish search missions. In addition, income limits are excessive for low-paid people where these income limits are already in place. This means that people are forced to agree to unfair working conditions in our low-wage sectors, because losing work would at the same time mean losing hope of seeing their families. Moreover, these income limits are difficult to predict because they are not specifically recorded in any law. Much depends on the discretion of the authority: sometimes the reflection bends downwards, unfortunately often upwards. It has also happened that a two-working person who thinks through it that he can have his family in Finland, who has invested time and money in ensuring that the applications are properly completed, has not received them. This proposal, which we now have before us, is based on the directive that states are permitted to require income from a person seeking family reunification who eliminates the risk of recourse to social security. It is not, therefore, said that countries are allowed to use these income limits to make their country less attractive, but that those income limits are for the purpose of eliminating the risk of a burden on social security. Well, we can see very clearly in the Income Support Act what the limit is for social security in Finland. For a couple it is EUR 898 18 cents plus housing costs, for a family with two children it is EUR 1284 9 cents plus housing costs. Housing costs are reduced by housing allowance. In practice, the income limits defined in this proposal are double those for income support. When we also have the European Court of Justice's ruling here that income limits should not be excessive, the question arises, at least for me, that if the purpose of the income limit is to ensure that people do not seek money from social welfare, and therefore a double level of income is required in relation to what would justify income support, then can we no longer talk about what is reasonable? This bill is particularly cruel because its consequences are particularly for women and children who are stuck in unstable conditions. I wouldn't want to spend years away from the people I love. No one here would want that. It's hard for me to imagine a more cruel fate for any of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u178	Madam President! I shall begin immediately by saying that it was a terrible and inhuman performance to read, and now that you have heard the compatriots of the performance in this Chamber, I am even more confused. How dare you play something so inhuman and so cold? How cruel can a civilized country become? I can't believe this. Beloved friends, the question is whether people can get to their mother, father, mates, and siblings. It's a love story that ends. It's about a boy who can't play with his mother. It's a girl who can't hug her father. The government leaves nothing to be guessed. Last autumn, especially the Finns Party and many other representatives of other government parties were concerned that only men would come here and not women and children in need of help. What is the government doing now that the situation is reversed? The Government wants to keep women and children out of Finland. Now we have this in black and white on this show. How did it go like it did in your own mind, government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u181	Madam President! Finland’s immigration policy has been seeking balance for decades. The goal has always been controlled immigration. The administration of immigration has thought of us who live in Finland. Efforts have been made to reconcile economic migration with employment, housing and the situation of public services. Controlled immigration has also been thought to support the distribution of labour markets and residential areas and the marginalisation of individuals who come here. However, it has also been remembered in the balance objective of controlled immigration that human dignity and the right to a normal life belong to everyone. It is very difficult to keep this government proposal balanced. Its objectives highlight the cost of immigration and the desire to ensure that Finland does not appear to be an attractive place. That sounds boring. It sounds like a loner, and it sounds like a corner. On the face of it, the legislative changes contained in the proposal are minimal, but the significance of these changes can be very far-reaching. These effects are likely to call into question the right of the people who have come here to a normal, decent life and will not be good for us who are already living here. Mr President! The government proposal proposes that the right to family reunification be restricted for people who have come as asylum seekers and have received a positive decision. The performance would affect most of the family members who have sought refuge here. Only a small number of asylum seekers can be subject to such a comprehensive asylum investigation that refugee status, which is strictly defined in the UN Refugee Convention, can be granted. The majority of those whose return is not considered safe will be granted a residence permit on the basis of protection. It is appropriate to recognise that this is a question of restricting rights. These are people who have usually used or left behind their entire commercial property, even asylum seekers, in their country of origin. They don't come here with enough money, and they don't come here with a finished, well-paid job. The question is that as a result of this government proposal, families will not be united. It is also worth recalling what family reunification is all about. It is a nuclear family we are familiar with — a spouse, children, small underage children — not extended families, not families. In immigration policy, the principle of 'country-by-country' has been repeated many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u184	Madam President! A total of 32476 asylum seekers arrived in Finland in 2015. In January to March 2016, a total of 2237 asylum seekers arrived in Finland. Immigration on the basis of family ties has traditionally formed a large part of immigration to Finland. With this government proposal, the conditions for family reunification would now be tightened. The aim is to manage immigration, reduce costs and, among other things, to ensure that Finland does not appear to be a particularly attractive asylum country. It is necessary for the legislator to take action in the event of an asylum crisis to put such matters in order. The EU directive on family reunification sets the limits within which family reunification can be regulated at national level. In the present proposal, Finland will introduce one of the tightening ups allowed by the Directive on family reunification, but the amendment does not apply to Finnish citizens. It is therefore also a question of making national legislation more compatible with national interests within the framework of the European Union. The Government Programme states that the criteria for family reunification will be specified in accordance with the so-called family reunification directive. In accordance with the Government's asylum policy action programme, the proposal would at least make family reunification conditional on income and social assistance independence. We have been talking here about income limits, and many have asked whether the income limit is too high. Indeed, Minister Orpo said that all matters will be dealt with separately and in private, and there may be possible changes. But it's going to committee. The extension of the income requirement has a direct positive economic impact. The extension of the income requirement is also expected to reduce the dependency of family members on income support and, on the other hand, to reduce residence permit applications for family members. Mr President! We have also talked here about the Nordic countries, and next week, as a member of the Nordic Council, we will meet in Norway, Oslo. In Norway, among other things, the Welfare Committee is familiar with the reception and situation of minors, and we are also doing the same at our summer meeting in Stockholm. It is good to see how the situation of minor asylum seekers has developed in the Nordic countries and what kind of news is there to bring. Of course, I will be happy to tell everyone what we see there and, above all, what we experience. Mr President! There's been a lot of emotional talk here. There is no denying that the asylum crisis worldwide, where there is war, horror and pain, is heartbreaking. We should find peace in this world so that every person can build his home, establish his family, and live a happy life. That is the objective we must pursue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u185	Madam President! As has already been demonstrated in the debate by many speakers, especially in this Chamber during the autumn and again and again, the Finns of Finland have stated that this is why mainly male asylum seekers come to Finland. Has it really occurred to these speakers, these representatives, that the government’s proposal makes it even more difficult to help women and children in need of international protection? This is also because the more dangerous routes there are, the more difficult it is to arrive in Finland using legal means, the better business for human smugglers among others. If you want to help women and children, good government, promote effective family reunification and prevent these illegal and dangerous passages by enabling them to take legal routes to Finland and Europe, including through effective family reunification. And if you are concerned about women and children, ask yourself how the situation of women and children in need of international protection will improve if their right to family reunification is significantly strengthened. Madam President! The government apparently wants to make Finland the rule of law, in which the realisation of human rights and the right to a family depend on people's income and wealth. So all people are equal, but other people are even more equal if money is found. As so many other speakers have already said, the majority of Finns do not comply with the Finnish Immigration Service’s instructions to make EUR 2600 a month before a beneficiary of international protection can even apply for family reunification for a spouse and two children. How can this income limit be considered reasonable for a beneficiary of international protection, not to mention that an application would have to be made by a relative in the country of origin? The most shocking example is for underage children who would like to have parents with them. Could a government representative tell me how a minor child can make a living? Madam President! As has already been said many times, family reunification is one of the best ways to support integration. The less successful we are in integration, the less successful we are in society, and what best supports integration is this family reunification, and precisely because people are able to start their lives in a new country and do not have to worry about how the family members who are left in the middle of the crisis can do so in another country. It is a family that prevents the radicalisation that has been talked about, especially for young men. This proposal will inevitably undermine integration. One thing I want to bring up at this stage is that it is often said that all the work is valuable. This is probably also a message for all of us to the people who came to Finland from elsewhere. For me, that means that you can get along with your work, start a family and live a decent life. How does that EUR 2,600 harmonize with this? When, among other things, Mr Juvonen mentioned earlier that the proposal is also intended to reduce costs, how will this proposal reduce costs if bureaucracy increases if the number of self-employed asylum seekers increases if the costs of poor integration increase and the Finnish embassies in many crisis countries become congested?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u186	Mr President! The proposed tightening up of family reunification for beneficiaries of humanitarian protection is problematic in many ways. Family reunification practices are already strict and have been tightened up a couple of times over the last few years. Already in many places, practices are so strict that the process is already practically impossible for many because of distances, costs or difficulties in accessing documents. The right to family life is a key element of human rights and also of the integration of immigrants. Family reunification has provided a legal route of entry, especially for women and children, i.e. vulnerable people, who have not had the opportunity to embark on a life-threatening journey to Europe. It is understandable to ask why so many male asylum seekers have come to Finland and why no more vulnerable women or children have come to Finland. Many of these questions have been asked, and it is contradictory that we now want to close the way for women and children to safety. Family reunification is also a way to extend international protection to the weakest groups in need. If a family member has received a residence permit from Finland based on the need for international protection, it is very likely that other family members would be entitled to the same if they could apply for it. Family reunification is one of the few legal routes of entry today for people suffering from wars and conflicts. Now this route of controlled and legal entry is already being made more difficult, in practice being closed. It is contradictory that, on the one hand, we call for immigration to be contained and human smuggling to be stopped and, at the same time, we propose measures which, in practice, make it difficult for controlled and legal entry to take place. This will create new markets for human smugglers and drive women and children on life-threatening journeys or completely impede their right to international protection. It should be remembered that family reunification does not constitute a so-called attraction for those who do not really need protection, because only those who have a positive asylum decision, i.e. those who need real protection, can bring their families to Finland through family reunification. Among other things, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has stated that the proposed amendment to the law would result in a livelihood requirement that would effectively prevent family reunification and would therefore also be contrary to the main objective of the EU Directive. International protection beneficiaries often employ at least initially in the low-wage sectors, i.e. even if people have a job, it does not necessarily meet tightening income requirements due to low wages. As has already been said several times here, the demands for income are unreasonable, even the majority of the Finns in Finland would not meet them. The child's legal organisation Unicef, for its part, criticises the proposal from the point of view of children's rights, as foreign children are seen primarily as foreigners and not as children. According to the refugee advice, the three-month deadline for submitting an application is too tight, taking into account the difficult situation of refugees and often self-reliant difficulties in obtaining travel or other required documents or the congestion of processing. Mr President! It is likely that the proposed changes will not only constitute excessive barriers to family reunification, but also burden the authorities and the judiciary as a result of processing processes and appeals processes. I therefore hope that, during the committee debate, the rationality and humanity of the proposal will be seriously considered and the necessary changes made to it will be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u187	Madam President! I would like to apologise for getting upset earlier in the debate. When it comes to children and human need, I cannot be rational about it. Madam President! The criteria for family reunification were last tightened in 2010 and 2012. New tightening is now being proposed, although the impact of the previous ones has not been assessed. Tightenings will lead to many who are entitled to unite their families being deprived of this right. Already, many people who are entitled to family reunification are unable to exercise their right because of the various obstacles to the system. The three-month deadline will make the situation worse. Family members have three months to submit an application to a local delegation, often located in another country, because the Finnish network of representations is few and we cannot maintain representation in every single country in the world. Many times that area is a conflict zone and that journey is long and dangerous. It is also impossible for many because the necessary documents are missing. It is certainly not as easy to obtain passports and travel documents in warring countries, conflict zones, collapsed countries, and that is why, in practice, this requirement makes it impossible for many to merge. The proposed income limit, EUR 2600 per month net, also makes family reunification virtually impossible. If it is difficult to earn this kind of money for more and more Finns, who know the language perfectly, who have visited the Finnish school system, how can a refugee who comes here immediately have the ability to do so? So the government is suggesting that the right to a family depends on the size of the wallet. The extension of the income threshold to minors is already absurd. Show me that underage kid who can make $2,600 a month net. This is a totally Padaistic performance. It must be remembered whether this point, which Parliament will then get out of committee work, has been deliberately left, and this will enable the government to appear human and to listen to Parliament. Now no one can imagine that a minor refugee would be able to meet those limits. Those who have criticised our immigration policy and the failure to integrate it now seem to be in favour of this proposal. I find this completely illogical. Getting a family together is an essential part of integration and integration into the new society. Each one of us can imagine how difficult it would be to build his own life if the family and loved ones were in constant danger on the other side of the world. The proposal is justified by the need to control uncontrolled immigration. Family reunification is a key, legal and safe route for family members, such as women and children, who are often vulnerable, to international protection and to their families. In other words, virtually the only legal way to make a government impossible. This will increase the business of smugglers — I thought we were trying to prevent that human smuggling. At least I would be willing to go on any dangerous journey in order to be safe with my own family, and I believe that is what many people in conflict zones think. In other words, by making a controlled and secure route impossible, these people are given no alternative but to embark on a dangerous journey that will benefit human smugglers. Minister Orpo justified the proposal by being in line with the EU directive. No, it's not. It's against it, it's against it. The purpose of the directive is, as it says, to promote family reunification, not to make it impossible, as this proposal does. It is true, as the Minister says, that the measures that have been proposed are the means that the directive allows Member States to have their own leeway, but the directive also states that these means must not be used against the purpose of the directive, namely to support family reunification. Finally, I would like to comment on the term that has been raised here by Mrs Elo, namely the'refugee of life'. There's no such thing. "Refugee" for an onterm human who meets the humanitarian protection criteria. Of course, there are people who do not run away with their lives but try to find a better life and its conditions in another country, but these people never get refugee status. They do not need international humanitarian protection. Then they will be work-related immigrants and not refugees. I believe that this is a dishonest term which is deliberately used to mislead the debate. This proposal, Mr President, is a cruel, inhumane, anti-fundamental and very bad immigration policy. It must definitely be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u188	Värderade fru talman! Vi behandlar nu ett lagförslag som kommer att göra det betydligt svårare för personer som beviljats ayl i Finland att få en familijemedlem till Finland. Det är en skärnning av utlänningslagen och det ska sägas klart ut att regeringens huvudsyfte med lagändringen är att man vill att Finland inte mera ska framstå som ett så attraktivt land för asylsökanden och flyktingar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u189	Mr President! When dealing with this legislative package at hand, we really need to start with the larger picture of the situation where we are now as Finland, as Europe, and, in a way, where this law can now be thought of. This is where we have a very exceptional immigration situation. If you compare any year in this recent history, you have not seen such a situation: last year, Europe-wide, 1.3 million asylum seekers, and from last year to this day, 34,000 from there to Finland. This actually reflects the fact that this immigration situation is a common European challenge, and the problems that have arisen from this, too, cannot be solved only by the actions of the nation states, but also by cooperation between countries and more consistent practices. I think this is the bigger question that, as long as we are incapable of a common immigration and asylum policy in Europe, as long as we are unable to work together on these decisions, this will continue to be such a run-in for tightening the conditions then in each Member State. It is good to remember that, as early as 1999, a uniform immigration policy for the European Union was called for, and we can see now, which is why it should have been formed much earlier. There are many problems with this government proposal, but I understand very well what the objective and situation picture really is, and that is largely linked to the fact that, if we now look at the development that has taken place in our control countries in the Nordic countries, each country has, in a different way, come to tighten its own criteria for family reunification as well as other immigration policies. In this respect, Finland will follow, and I consider it to be a rather natural development. This is precisely what shows that we do not have that unified European perspective. But, indeed, when we talk about these problems, the positive signal of family reunification is usually the first thing to be paid attention to, and that is how it is. Everyone will surely be better integrated into the new country when you know that your family will be able to come safely. But then perhaps we will come to this other problem, which is rarely mentioned in this Chamber. It is the resource issue with which we should integrate an increasing number of people. We already know, with regard to these asylum seekers, who have received a residence permit, that it is extremely difficult for them to find municipal places. In the same respect, it is clear to me then that if we do not find municipal places for the current number of municipalities, it is difficult to imagine that if the numbers of family reunification were to increase again, then somewhere we would find a place for them in the municipality and thus access to these services, with which we will really only be able to integrate people. And even in that sense it must always be remembered that even though it is understood that this has positive signals for integration, the success of integration itself also depends on the resources available. The committee should now go through these three issues, perhaps the most important ones, which have come up quite well in every speech. The first relates to the role of children, how it is taken into account here, and how this also views children's rights internationally. It is precisely as has been said here that no minor child has the opportunity to enjoy the income required by these income limits. When it’s already difficult for even a young person in Finland, it’s even harder for those who come from abroad. The second relates to the income limit, which actually refers to net limits. If you think of a family of four, it is quite intolerable to demand EUR 4000 in gross income. Everyone knows that quite a few people in Finland can even make that income. And since this is not a legal issue, but is more in line with the internal guidelines of the Finnish Immigration Service, this should certainly be softened. Thirdly, this three-month time limit for asylum seekers, where perhaps we should go in the direction of Belgium, so that we would rather talk about a year, for example, because, in fact, in three months, family reunification is a very difficult task.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u190	Madam President! The government intends to tighten the already strict conditions for family reunification. I share the concern of many experts that the impact of blackmail on human rights will be shocking. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that everyone must have the right to family life. The tightening of the conditions is now at odds with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I therefore recommend that the government carefully examine this agreement, which has entered into force in Finland in 1991. The Treaty, which legally binds States, states, inter alia, in Article 9: "The States of the Convention shall ensure that the child is not separated from his or her parents contrary to their will, except where the competent authorities, whose decisions may be brought before the Court, determine, in accordance with applicable laws and procedures, that it is in the best interests of the child." Article 10 states: 'In accordance with the obligations imposed on the States of the Agreement in Article 9(1), applications by the child or his or her parents for entry into or exit from a State Party for the reunification of the family shall be dealt with in a positive, humane and urgent manner.' Madam President! Passing the rights of the child is both humanly unsustainable and very shortsighted. We know that insecurity in childhood causes many kinds of difficulties, such as exclusion and mental illness, even as an adult. Sometimes these difficulties go on throughout life. From the point of view of integration, the government's policies are also very bad. Nothing else will help integration better than getting your own family to Finland as quickly as possible. It is difficult to learn a new language and look for work if your family is concerned. The bureaucracy and costs associated with family reunification must be reduced and not increased. I am concerned that the blackmail line in the government will exacerbate not only the children but also the other vulnerable groups. The tightening of income conditions puts women, in particular, in a more difficult position. For example, refugee women have a lot of illiteracy, so it can be very difficult to achieve secure income quickly. With regard to the implementation of human rights, it is worrying that the tightening of the conditions for family reunification also affects many other particularly vulnerable groups, such as disabled people. We must also remember that family reunification was tightened in Finland already in 2010 and 2012. The effects of these changes should have been clarified before further tightening is introduced. Madam President! Government blackmail policies give more power to human smugglers and other criminal activities that undermine human rights. People are being forced into dangerous routes and into the hands of human smugglers and the legal way to enter the country is being complicated. Finland has been an active promoter of human rights in many different forums, such as the UN and the EU. Finland cannot be a credible promoter of human rights if we take the line of government that saves human rights. Madam President! Finally, the Government's proposal mentions the objective of reducing Finland's attractiveness as a country of asylum. However, the real reasons for refugees are not in Finland's attractiveness, but in the intolerable situation in the countries of origin. This reform will not solve the refugee crisis, but it will cause human suffering.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u191	Madam President! Family reunification is one of the largest individual routes to immigration to Finland. In 2014, 17995 positive residence permits were issued, including as many as 6774 family-based decisions, 17796 positive residence permits last year and 6036 family-based decisions. Here, when I say positive, I mean getting a residence permit here, even if it doesn't necessarily...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u194	Madam President! The rush of tens of thousands of immigrants got many people confused in the autumn. Here and there they updated how Finland unexpectedly faced an unprecedented migration crisis. I still wonder if someone was really and truly surprised. This is what we Finns have been warning about for years, demanding that our lax and generous legislation be tightened before the largest masses reach the northern part of the country. This was not done, and now is the last time to act. And luckily, there's a government that works. We must remember that last autumn’s arrivals were by no means the first. Some Somalis started coming to us about 25 years ago. Many of them still do not know Finnish. Their employment rate is 9, but they're high in crime statistics. Multi-child families receive tens of thousands of current transfers a year. That's how they live from year to year, from decade to decade, and so on. Age pensioners. We have two groups whose adaptation to Finland has been particularly weak: Somalis and Iraqis. Expensive waiting for decades has not produced results. Where are the results? In Kela's office. What logic would the tens of thousands of asylum tourists who came here over the last few months adapt to it? There is no work for Finns — how about them? We have hundreds of thousands of ordinary Finns unemployed. What kind of work could uneducated, uneducated goatherds do here? The times when less demanding jobs were found for just about everyone who wanted to work are over. They're from us and elsewhere. Madam President! Finland has not demanded anything from these people. They only have rights, not responsibilities. They have simply come here to our country, started asking, demanding and then getting: money, furnished housing, health care, language training and so on. This must be changed, and urgently. We have many underprivileged native Finns. For example, they sit on Viitasaari in long health center lines, especially on the dental side. Those who have been in the country for a few months pass that line, straight to the bow: those who have never grown up and never will. And about the integration. There was a story in Hesar a while back that there are a lot of bachelors here who don't have a mate. In the countryside, they're almost blazing from every tower. How do we integrate here, as Eerola mentioned there, these unmarried young men? Where are they looking for that spouse? I think there's gonna be a dispute. Madam President! But are we not masters in our own country? I do not think it is inhumane that it is also possible to demand something from those who come. It is a matter of honour for many Finns to support themselves and their families. Applying for income support is often seen as a disgrace, especially for older people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u195	Mr President! There have been justified criticisms of this bill here today and I will not repeat these things again. Mrs Räsänen, among other things, analysed these problems very well in her speech. But there is one point I would like to repeat. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that a child must not be separated from his or her parents contrary to their will unless, for one reason or another, it is in the best interests of the child. Finland is committed to this agreement and this bill is contrary to this agreement. Family reunification is currently the best way to get women and children safe, and is that not what has been strongly emphasised in this immigration debate? I find this bill inhumane, and I wonder how a government can be so hard and heartless — it is a question of human dignity and human rights. I very much hope that there will be a little more humanity in committee. I hope that the members of the committee will be able to imagine what it will be like to live without a family on the other side of the globe and what it will be like for children to be without parents. I wonder how many of us would be able to focus on studying, doing jobs or building a society in such a situation? Family reunification is almost a prerequisite for integration. Mr President! If there are no substantial improvements to this bill in committee, this bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u196	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In this debate, for example, Minister Orpo and Mr Räsänen have well highlighted the wider European context to which this bill relates and the fact that the management of immigration in Europe requires, above all, common European solutions that we are trying to promote at European level. And of course, globally, we are trying to get the root causes that drive people to flee their own countries, that is, military crises, wars, misery, these problems, alleviated. But then, with regard to this proposal, which is therefore required by the current European situation, there are a few aspects of it. In this long debate, critics have stressed that the proposal is inhumane, unhumane, contrary to human rights, contrary to international agreements and makes it difficult for people to integrate in Finland. It is true that if we think about it from the point of view of asylum seekers already in Finland, this proposal will naturally be very problematic for them. And it is true that this difficulty in family reunification is not conducive to integration. On the contrary, it can be said, quite understandably, that it tends to slow down and slow down integration. This is the other side of the matter. But as representatives of the Finnish people and as the Finnish Parliament, we cannot just look at the matter from the perspective of asylum seekers in Finland, but we must look at it more broadly. And this other side of the matter is also important to bear in mind. The other side is that the conditions for family reunification are being tightened up throughout Europe and also in our neighbouring countries in the Nordic countries. If, in this situation, we did not act in accordance with this trend in Finland, but left our current legislation as it is, when Finland's family reunification legislation would appear to be much cheaper than the legislation on family reunification in our neighbouring countries and other European countries in general, then would this not be such a special attraction for asylum seekers specifically in Finland, which could lead to a situation similar to that of last year, when tens of thousands of asylum seekers, mainly from Iraq, came through many countries of Europe, precisely here in the background to Finland, because they had the impression that Finland would be easier to obtain a residence permit and that they would be more easily able to connect their families to Finland? During the debate, I asked the critics whether you would close your eyes to this fact or whether you would accept this fact. Do you accept that, in this situation, when there is a risk that hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers will come to Europe this year, Finland appears to be the most attractive country and that perhaps tens of thousands of new asylum seekers are seeking in Finland because of this attractiveness? Either this fact can be blindfolded or it can be concluded that it is not a problem. Last year there were 30,000, this year there will be 30,000, next year perhaps 50,000, and so on, until this European solution, hopefully a common European solution, is born. I believe that such numbers of asylum seekers per year are a major problem for Finnish society. We do not have the preconditions for successful integration if the number of asylum seekers now — not only last year but also this year, next year, next year — is in tens of thousands. Here, some critics blame this solution for raising the cost of integration and for increasing red tape. This could happen. But these costs are marginal compared to the costs at hand if the number of asylum seekers were to continue this year, next year the same as last year. Attention has been paid here to the fact that successful integration is the best guarantee against radicalisation, among other things. I agree. The success of integration, employment, integration into society, knowledge of inclusion are certainly very important for preventing and preventing radicalisation. But it must be admitted that if the numbers of asylum seekers were to continue in absolute terms as they were last year, it is quite clear that if there are 100,000 new asylum seekers here compared to 30,000, then the number of potential radicals will also be higher. Here critics also said that this is the wrong way to tighten the conditions for family reunification, here we look at wealth or income, it is the wrong way. I did not see — although I could not have had the whole debate — that these harshest critics had put forward other ways. Are they, for example, in favour of age limits, 24 years before they get family reunification? Do they support more years of living in Finland and so on? I don't know. I did not think I could get an answer to this. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that in this debate there has been sound criticism of the details of this law. Many here have mentioned this three-month period, when family members who have actually been granted asylum, i.e. refugee status, must apply for family reunification in order to make a living for them, and that this time limit may be too short, especially if the situation is as it was said here that, for example, the Ankara embassy cannot even be reached in that time. These children have also been mentioned here. It may be that the intention is not to be an attractive country for sending so-called anchor children, not to encourage children to be carried alone by human smugglers, which will ensure that the family can follow. It may be that here are aspects of this kind. And here attention has been paid to these income limits. In any case, I think it is important that these details be given due consideration in committee in the management committee, and if it is to be seen that there is reason for the government's proposal in this regard to be specified and revised, then it must be prepared to do so. But I believe that the need for this proposal itself is indisputable, and we cannot ignore the concern that I wanted to raise in the debate, although, of course, I understand the criticism that has also been expressed against this whole proposal from the point of view of humanity and humanity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u197	Mr President! It is, I might say, almost uplifting after this long debate, to hear Mr Zyskowic's good speech that, even from within the government parties, this bill is still at this stage if you can use this word, the 'rattle', and it is waiting to be matured from the Administrative Committee in which the matter will be dealt with. As I said earlier, I have a great deal of credit for the fact that the Administrative Committee is able to raise the shortcomings that still exist at this stage in the government proposal. Earlier, Mr Eerola referred to the fact that the majority are single men who come here to seek asylum. I'd always need a little source when reference is made to numbers like this. And although that is the case — and so it is, I know it itself — that at least a large proportion, or some, are single men, then it is always good to talk about the end product of this asylum process, the place of asylum, in other words, whether they receive asylum. If they do, they will have grounds if they do not, they will be returned to their country of origin. In this way, at least I still have the word'safe haven tourism' used by Mr Hakkarainen, and so on. This isn't about tourism. Tourism is a completely different kind of travel. This is a human tragedy in the background, wars and world politics. Before this current asylum crisis, 1000 quota refugees and some 3,000 asylum seekers arrived in Finland each year. Two thirds of asylum seekers did not receive asylum here in Finland, so we have had the system in order. Now it is up to the Sipilä Government — or perhaps I will use the term 'Hakkarainen', one or the other — to decide whether Finland's civilised state will also be able to play its part in the coming years and whether we will be able to play our part in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u198	Mr President! About what Kari said: The government of Hakkarainen has very little influence here. If Mr. Hackeraine were to make a difference here, we wouldn't have this tourism problem. If you think that one third of these asylum tourists will be returned, they will fly back to their own country by plane, and in my opinion, always what I have flown there and visited foreign countries, as a tourist, I have been more or less. They don't work here. And then, what does the opposition think is a family? Is it the nuclear family with the sister, the brother's family, the cousins' families, and so on? We have had such loose interpretations of family reunification so far that if we continue along the same path, more of these tourists will come here on the tribal and village roads. I'm sure you'll find one of those greener branch seekers on this planet. There will be 30 million more every year in Africa, and if we want them to live at the same level as here, there will certainly be plenty of work to do. But if we want to maintain our own culture, our own standard of living, our security here, we need to act, not go along with that kind of world healing and chilling. You have to be able to say a stop now. The government has good proposals, and as Eerola said there will be more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u199	Mr President! I had no choice but to ask for the floor to be taken on board, however, that when Mr Hakkarainen here thought a little about what that family means, even today, Finnish legislation is based on the fact that, for example, these family reunifications are about this nuclear family and no longer about grandparents, cousins or other distant relatives. In that sense, Finnish family reunification legislation has become stricter over the years, and it is no longer really a question of seeking these family ties for a very long relationship. But then, perhaps to this end, it may be said that it was all right that reference was made here specifically to the fact that this coin has two sides. On the other hand, this is about this humanity, how we are used to dealing with these matters and, as we think, perhaps we ourselves would like to be treated. And then the other side is what the resources are with which we are able to assume, in a way, its own responsibilities. Perhaps that is why I would be missing this three-month deadline. However, when we have often spoken in this Chamber about the fact that we want to target aid specifically to those most vulnerable — and then we are talking specifically about the core of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, namely those who have been granted asylum or quota refugees — I think it is quite natural that this three-month period should actually be a little longer so that they can really get their families here, because they are the ones who have studied the reason why they are in need of international protection, and we have all wanted to give our help to those who are in the most vulnerable. As regards the question of whether family reunification is a factor of attraction, it must be said that when a person is given asylum, that is to say, on this principle of priority, it can be said that no one will:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u200	Mr President! I myself have lived in the Middle East for more than ten years, and I find it a little strange for Mr Kari to say that staying a civilised country in Finland is somehow dependent on how many people we take here. From my own experience, I can tell you that if 5 million people from the Middle East are taken here now, there will be no Finnish civilised state after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u201	Mr President! Mr Räsänen spoke of the most vulnerable. It's not long since there was news in the Evening Sanomat that "These are fighting against the ISIS." And who were they? Women. At the same time, over 30,000 men were coming here. Who were the most vulnerable, these men? The last time we had a war in Finland, the men went to the front, the women stayed on the home front and the children fled to Sweden. This is the order if real war is at stake and women are not left behind. That is why I call this asylum tourism, because these men would be there to defend their families and not here to live on social security. Then there are these families, when it is said that the Finnish family and the concept of the family. They have no idea about the Finnish family. There may be five wives, probably, and the sixth is pregnant. How, then, are we and these people doing this with our civilized Finnish family interpretation here? They have different ideas about it and cannot be reconciled.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u202	Mr President! I think Congressman Raatikainen came into the hall right here at the end of the line, and he didn't hear the whole two-hour conversation. What I referred to in this principle of a civilised state is that we deal with asylum applications in the way required by international law and our own case law. There is no direct analogy to what Mr Raatikainen apparently thought he would be. In my opinion, the starting point for the government's proposal has been in the right direction, i.e. the integration of asylum processes, not only in the Nordic countries, but also in the European Union. At the end of the day, I would like to say that from the speech made by Mr Räsänen, the government could, almost by means of a copy machine, already submit those amendments to the Administrative Committee, which I hope will also come to this final legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u203	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u204	Mr President! The Finnish defence solution is based on general military duty and the principle of defence of the whole country. The great line of our defence solution has been unchangeable, and that is a good thing. By means of general military service, we will have the best powers in the country to carry out defence tasks and we will be able to maintain the military forces sufficient for Finland's defence. Just because our defenses haven't changed doesn't mean the world is around us. The security situation in the Baltic Sea region today is very different from that of ten years ago, reflecting in particular on Europe. The tension has increased and the power policy has restored. About ten years ago, Finland carried out a thorough legislative reform of national defence. As part of that package, the Military Code was also reformed. The law provides for military service in the Defence Forces both during peace and during the war. In the context of the revision of the Military Obligations Act, one significant change was made to the law compared to the previous legislation: for the first time in the history of independent Finland, a review exercise was set in advance, three months. In the past, there was no such early warning period as provided for by the law. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the aim is to give an order for refresher exercises up to six months in advance. One of the aims of the refresher exercise is the flexible increase in military capabilities mentioned in the law. Everyone understands how difficult it is to anticipate a refresher exercise to raise the readiness three or six months earlier. Reservists can be used to raise their readiness in three ways: refresher training, extra service and mobilization. The refresher exercise is intended for normal situations, whereas additional service and mobilization are intended for exceptional situations. Currently, it would be very difficult to use a refresher exercise as a single option in terms of the long pre-order period and the maximum date set for the refresher training days. In a changed security policy environment The Defence Forces must be able to increase their readiness in a flexible manner, even under normal conditions. If, under the law, the Defence Forces could only invite reserve personnel under exceptional circumstances, then our defence solution will no longer work. Mr President! The Government proposes changes to the Military Code in relation to refresher exercises. There are two elements in the government's proposal. These changes concern refresher exercises for preparedness reasons and maximum number of refresher training days. The Government proposes that, in order to increase the readiness for re-engagement exercises, the conscripts may be assigned without a predetermined minimum period. This would involve a flexible increase in military preparedness due to the need for Finland's security environment. A decision on such a review exercise would always make the presentation of the President of the Republic, the Defence Forces Commander, in accordance with the decision-making procedure on military matters, subject to the duty of the Minister of Defence to be present and to express his views and to the right of the Prime Minister to be present and express his views. Such a refresher exercise for the purpose of increasing flexibility would be an exceptional measure. Its purpose would be to act as a preventive measure to stabilise the security situation. At the same time, it would be a measure of normal conditions which would allow a smooth transition to exceptional measures. There is no need in the law to set a maximum level of preparedness for the commanding refresher exercise, as the decision to organise such an exercise will be taken by the President of the Republic, and the Government will be bound at least by the Minister of Defence. In fact, the maximum number of conscripts prescribed by law for refresher exercises might in some cases be the Achilles heel limiting the increase in preparedness. It is possible to continue training as an extra service if the security situation so requires. A flexible increase in preparedness is precisely intended to prevent the situation from being escalated, and we hope that there will no longer be a need for exceptional procedures. Mr President! All conscripts are assigned to refresher exercises by the Defence Forces. The order may be issued to a military officer for 30 days at a time, but in some exceptional circumstances it may be appropriate to extend this period by a new order. In order to increase preparedness, refresher exercises may be exempted if necessary due to family or economic conditions of the conscript or to the pursuit of the profession or occupation. The grounds for exemption are not in themselves an obstacle to entry into service and there is no right to opt out of the exercise on the basis of an application submitted alone. The Government proposes doubling the maximum dates for training refresher exercises. In some cases, the current maximum number of refresher exercises has limited the training of conscripts to a new post of wartime. The new ceilings apply only to a limited part of the reserve. In practice, this change would mainly affect those who have been trained for more demanding specific tasks and who have generally voluntarily applied for such tasks. At the same time, the Government suggests that refresher exercises to increase the readiness are outside the maximum number of refresher exercises.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u205	Mr President! The world is changing and the threats are changing, and that is why our legislation must also change. We have a general military service and a wartime force based on reserve people, and in order for us to get the agile of this crowd, our legislation must enable it. We have seen new types of threats in Europe too, and we cannot stay if something threatens us, wait three months, but we must be able to act, and this faster call for refresher exercises is very important. It is therefore a good thing that this legislation is being promoted. However, I would like to ask the Minister how this law takes account of the rights of the reserver when there is no right to refuse refresher exercises. What if there is simply a barrier to being unable to participate: there is a single parent, there is a civil work that cannot participate? How this will be taken into account that the necessary refresher exercises can be done
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u206	Mr President! To this recent question: I hope that the Minister can confirm that the first version did not have this option of refusing or obtaining an exemption from refresher exercises, but I understand that this is now in the government proposal, but that it is more stringent than it normally is in relation to refresher exercises, but in any case. The second question is, of course, that, when here was originally also this kind of thinking, that the Commander of the Defence Forces can, at his own command only, without the minister, without the president, do this sort of 25,000 persons for rehearsing exercises, so I am forced to ask at this point what miracle this kind of thinking even can go on that we would do without the tripartite preparation, when we have foreign and security policy, however, has been essentially such a thing,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u207	Mr President! As such, the goals of the Government’s proposal to increase the necessary readiness are in the right direction. It is good that the spirit of this old military law before 2007 should be restored. This is also well founded by the world political situation and the changes around it. I am referring, however, to what Mr Paatero said earlier: in the motion for a statement, the Defence Forces Commander was given the right to invite 25,000 reserve members to a refresher exercise. Fortunately, now that the consultation has taken place, the government has changed this. This change was made not only by the opposition, the SDP, but also by the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre. In this context, when our defence solution is rare and there are between 4 and 5 other countries in Europe with a similar system, and our defence solution relies on general military duty and refresher exercises: has the appropriations for refresher exercises now been secured by the government? I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u208	Mr President! This figure of 25,000 remained to haunt this debate when it came to the consultation. I personally did not see this as such a problem, because it was now talking about the maximum that the commander could have called. By adding these together, if this 25,000 men and women were to be called together at once, the cost would be so great that we do not have the money for it. I would have asked the Minister what a serious and probable threat you would have thought it would have been for the Commander of Defence Forces to call such a group on his own at all. But is it not still the main thing in this law to be able to be called more quickly and not now to be stared at the limits of how many thousand men now are to be called by whom? Anyway, there's a pretty low probability,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u209	Mr President! In his own comment on this matter, Mr Vanhanen, the former Prime Minister, made a good reference to these foreign policy implications, in which I hope that during this committee we will no longer return as if from the same starting point as the original government proposal, because I fully agree with Mr Vanhanen that if we give an individual official the right to take 25,000 people from our wartime forces to rehearsals by his own decision, we will go to the forest side. I welcome the fact that military orders are being carried out in the way that military orders are to be taken care of and, in this connection, the President of the Republic is also involved in this foreign policy signal, not only as a commander-in-chief, but also as a person, a political actor to whom Parliament also trusts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u210	Minister, on site for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u211	Mr President! Indeed, for these ready-made reasons, the prescribed refresher exercises should be exempted as well as other refresher exercises. However, the conditions are indeed stricter, just as Mr Paatero said. According to a very normal procedure, this bill went out of the ministry for a consultation, received feedback and concluded that it is appropriate to go in accordance with the military order procedure in this decision-making process. This amount, 25,000, was indeed abandoned. I could say that it is a very exceptional situation, if not a unique one, that such a number would have been ordered by the Commander of the Defence Forces for reasons of readiness. Then again to Mr Savola, who asked how the law took into account the rights of the reserver here when applying for an exemption: Indeed, there is a right to complain, but it must be borne in mind that these people, who would most often be invited to be prepared for a flexible increase, are very young people, say 20 to 25 years old, so that they generally do not yet have very demanding civilian tasks, or necessarily even children or families, so that in that sense this is more a theoretical question. However, an application for exemption in itself would not in itself affect the implementation of this refresher exercise order, i.e. a mere application would not give rise to the right to opt out of the exercise, since it affects the operation of the assembly and it is a matter of national defence. A very strict adjustment in this regard was considered necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u212	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u213	Mr President! General military service in Europe is no longer very common. In Finland, national defence relies on general military duty, which guarantees the country a good and cost-effective way to organise defence. It is important that the foundation of our defence solution is maintained and that national defence belongs to the people as a whole. The law on military service in force dates back to 2007. At that time, a requirement was added to the law for a repeat exercise order to be sent to the conscript at least three months before the exercise. This is problematic in situations where rapid preparedness is needed. The changed security environment creates a need for scrutiny, especially in the Military Code. Stepping up and increasing preparedness is justified. In recent years, political crises have evolved unexpectedly and rapidly into armed conflicts, and Finland too must be prepared to act more quickly if the situation so requires. In its report, the parliamentary study group led by Ilkka Kanerva stated that the change in the operating environment and the geostrategic position of Finland lay down basic requirements for the organisation of defence. Finland is not currently facing a military threat, but changes are always possible. Finland's position at the military union border and as a neighbour of the superpower must be taken into account when drawing conclusions on the size and development of the Defence Forces. Article 32 of the Code of Military Restraint in force does not allow the Defence Forces to be sufficiently flexible to increase their preparedness. According to the current law, the order for a refresher exercise must be delivered to the reservist three months before the exercise and the refresher exercise may be exempted from the practice of the profession, study, family or financial circumstances or the employer's needs. One of the most important changes in the draft law is the abolition of this minimum time limit if the exercise is to increase the military capability flexibly and when the need for this in Finland's security environment is required. The decision to organise the exercise in an accelerated procedure would make a presentation to the President of the Republic of the Republic, the Commander of the Defence Forces. The Minister of Defence must be present in the decision-making process and express his views on the matter, and the Prime Minister also has the right to be present and to express his or her views. According to the proposal, the order for the exercise in question could be issued for a single conscript for a maximum of 30 days at a time, and the exercise should be cancelled as soon as the security situation permits. Mr President! The proposals are therefore intended to be put in place only in exceptional circumstances and specifically for immediate start-up. These include very rapid developments such as hybrid threats. This would be an exceptional procedure, which would therefore only be used when there is no other way of maintaining safety. Finally, the duty to participate in the refresher exercise. According to Article 50 of the current law, the maximum total duration of refresher exercises is 40 days for the crew, 75 days for the special skills of the crew and 75 days for the most demanding special duties of the crew, and 100 days for the sub-commander, college officer and officer. It is now proposed that these maximum periods should be doubled, and this is justified, as the complex arms systems require more training for certain key military forces. This is the law of constraint that we will have to deal with tomorrow in the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u214	Mr President! The Finnish defence environment is changing. At the same time as the threats are expanding, the possibility of military use of force remains and military defence is still needed. The aim of the proposal before us is to respond to such a need. The proposal aims to increase the capacity to respond to rapidly changing security situations. The way in which this proposal has been presented is to remove the current three-month period for refresher exercises due to an increase in military capabilities. In addition, the proposal proposes doubling the maximum number of refresher training days for other exercises. A credible defence is important to Finland. The capabilities and credibility of the Defence Forces are based on the ability to regulate defence capabilities in a flexible and appropriate manner in the event of a crisis and threat. Mr President! Minister, you have just presented the government's proposal, and you have replied that this invitation to a refresher exercise — if I understood correctly — would mainly affect these young people, between the ages of 20 and 25, when the subject was discussed here. I'd like to ask you about this age limit for rehearsing exercises at the end: Has it ever been thought that those age limits could be raised from there, or are they merely apparent? Will people over 50 be invited to repeat exercises when such legends little live among people, that they no longer ask for refresher exercises?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u215	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Military Act, which aims to increase the capacity to respond to rapidly changing security situations. In order to achieve this objective, the proposal provides for the abolition of the three-month period for the imposition of a refresher exercise for those exercises which are organised in the light of the flexible increase in military capability. I regard this proposal as a very important and patriotic proposal and give it my full support. It is proposed that the maximum periods of refresher training should not apply to these exercises, but at the same time it is proposed that the maximum periods of refresher training should be doubled for other exercises. Indeed, the number of refresher exercises has been at its lowest due to the decisions of the previous government, and we are fortunate that this has changed. To accomplish this, a basic Finnish Minister of Defence was needed. I believe that the focus of these refresher exercises should be on doubling the operational and regional forces. I see particular concern in improving the performance of the newly established local forces. There must be time and money for action. It is also very important for credible defence, and the importance of these exercises cannot therefore be overemphasized. In its report already in 2014, the parliamentary study group stated that the change in Finland's operating environment and geostrategic status set basic requirements for Finnish defence arrangements. Although Finland is not currently facing a military threat, changes are very possible. Finland's position as a military alliance at the external border of NATO and as a neighbour of Russia must always be taken into account when drawing conclusions on the size and development of the Defence Forces. There's nothing we can do about the geographical location. In the past, the garrisons were placed in geopolitically well-thought-out locations in Finland. With the reform of the Defence Forces, the garrison network fell, and the provinces without garrison are currently very patriotic provinces of North Karelia and South Ostrobothnia. I still regard it as a very unpatriotic act by the decision-makers. The garrison is important to the provinces. They maintain the will to defend the country, and for the reservists and national defence organizations they are natural training places. The above-mentioned study group stressed that only universal military service will provide sufficient quality and a sufficient number of eligible assets for military tasks in Finland. At the same time, public military service is building a knowledgeable and competent basis for society to cope with the challenges of the crisis. Unfortunately, many other European countries have not understood this. In Sweden, for example, there is a professional army from which you cannot expect much at the time of the crisis. Ukraine failed to develop its own defence forces, and we have seen the result. In a neighbouring country Estonia has at least understood the importance of defence as a neighbour of Russia. The Finnish defence environment is also changing. The saving years made a huge dent in Finland's defence, and it takes several years to get the matter back to the starting point. At the same time as the threats are expanding, the possibility of military use of force remains and military defence is still needed. The means of influence are diversifying and defence must be able to respond to both traditional warfare and different combinations of forces. Local and regional political crises in recent years, accompanied by the use of military force, have taken place unexpectedly and rapidly, only after a few days of developments. Finland must prepare for crises more quickly. The proposals for this legislative amendment are intended to be introduced only in exceptional circumstances and, in particular, for the immediate start-up of operations. I'm in favour of a change of law. Mr Juvonen asked in his previous speech whether there was an opportunity for people over 50 to attend refresher exercises. I can say at this point that yes, I have an invitation coming. I thank the Colonel of North Karelia for that already.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u216	Mr President! As I said earlier, I am very much in favour of these changes contained in this government proposal 44. During the previous government, a very wide-ranging debate on defence policy took place in this Chamber for four years and also on this fall in the level of appropriations for the previous period's refresher exercises, the garrison network and so on. In many cases, views were shared between the government and the opposition in a very similar way. The decisions that were made at the time were those of the time, and today new solutions have to be made. These solutions are based on a parliamentary working group led by the representative of a good, strong steel concrete base at the end of the last period by Mr Kanerva, to whom the representative: Even the angle here was a sign. Training needs a legal basis but also funding. And I would like to renew the question that I asked the Minister earlier: is it now ensured for this spending limits period that the level of refresher exercises, some 17,000 days, can be maintained in the future? Our trained reserve is the core of our defence system, and with the trained reserve we will be able to defend our own country and to create stability in our defence policy environment as well. One more question for the Minister when the legislation is being reformed on these training days, and I also referred to this issue of money: would it also be necessary for such a general debate on defence policy, as it were, to reassure such a public debate — because there is often people's concerns when people meet?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u217	Mr President! The reform of the Armed Forces Act will increase the Defence Forces' capacity to respond to the current military threat, in which the armed conflict has started very quickly as the situation picture changes. It is therefore important that we be able to respond quickly to the threat to our country by increasing our own readiness. At the same time, the rapid recruitment provided for in the amendment to the Military Obligations Act is a clear signal that our country's defence capability is credible and, if necessary, we will be able to respond quickly enough to the threats to our country. The increase in the maximum number of refresher days will also support the efforts of both the Defence Forces and the Border Guard to secure our society as they receive better trained reservists if necessary. In the event of a military threat, it shall be possible at a sufficiently early stage to command persons in the non-permanent service of the Defence Forces, as well as former military personnel transferred from the Defence Forces to other places of work. At the same time, the committed provincial forces should also be ordered to serve. This will enable us to achieve an adequate level of expertise in the defence of the country, which will enable the rapid deployment of troops if the international situation so requires. Mr President! The situation in Finland is currently peaceful and there is no military threat to our country. By taking care of national defence and doing development work such as the amendment to the military law currently under way, we will at the same time reduce the possibility of a military threat to our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u218	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the Military Code is necessary in a situation where the risks of both external and internal conflicts and hybrid threats to our country have increased. Changes in the security situation are taking place very quickly today. We must be able to respond to the situation. For example, today a representative of the National Protection Police in Vantaa Sanomat has stated that a radical Islamist circle or network is forming in Finland — an example of what can happen and what is apparently happening. The Government's proposal is well prepared in all respects. The most important terms in the regulation of the Defence Forces’ capabilities are to strengthen preparedness and increase preparedness. In order to enhance preparedness, it is essential that the Defence Administration is able to implement preparedness regulation with its genuine own decisions. Appropriate orders for operations should be drawn up as proactively as possible by branch of defence and by type of weapon. If we are to increase our capacity for powers, we must avoid a situation where bureaucracy can slow down. The plans should be as far-reaching as possible so that, when the situation arises, there is no longer any need to set up drilling or disputing teams which would only hinder rapid decision-making and management. The unknown soldier said, as I recall, that the front stitch is half the profit, and that is true here too. The measures to increase preparedness must be based on adequate pre-emptive intelligence, so that the regulation of preparedness and preparedness are also based as accurately as possible on the situation picture. Intelligence legislation needs to be developed at international level. At present there are considerable shortcomings, particularly in the area of online intelligence. Measures aimed at increasing preparedness must be initiated before a significant threat is posed to Finland. Our military defence is based on the Reservoir army, whose forces to fight must first be carried out in their planned formations. A flexible increase in preparedness requires that the necessary measures can be taken more easily than the current situation, even before the conditions for additional service are met. Current legislation is too rigid and does not provide sufficient means for this. The amendment of the law will allow for effective and flexible means. It is proposed to double the maximum number of days of refresher training. Increasing the number of days means that the possibility of a genuine basic unit and unit function can be achieved through effective training and up-to-date equipment. Practice makes a master — simple and true also at this point. It is possible to ensure the functioning of society by means of well-trained troops. More and more demanding technology requires more training than before. It is therefore necessary to train troops and maintain skills. This can only be achieved by increasing the maximum duration of refresher exercises. Mr President! We do not yet know the pressures on our borders as the summer approaches, but everyone understands that it can bring new floods of asylum seekers and, as the situation escalates, we must be prepared for more effective border control and, in addition to that, to safeguard the territorial integrity of the kingdom. In the event of defence capability, the border forces or parts thereof may be attached to the Defence Forces by a decree of the President of the Republic. This is necessary in the case of direct military use of force on the territory of the kingdom and in the event of a threat to the management of the border security mission. In addition to those in charge of armed forces in the reserve, the Border Guard has a large number of staff in office. The Border Guard is responsible for the refresher exercises of its own wartime border forces. In practice, however, the Defence Forces will assign military personnel to the Border Guard refresher exercises in accordance with the plan, equip the troops and bear the costs of the reservers. Our country's defence is based on a general military duty, so strengthening and increasing preparedness are crucial to our national defence. Only universal military service can provide sufficient quality and a sufficient number of eligible reserves for military tasks in Finland. At the same time, society will be assured of the know-how to cope with the challenges of the crisis. The Government's proposal improves social readiness, which is beneficial for society as a whole. The changes presented will safeguard the functioning of society. Furthermore, I would like to thank the Committee on Defence for the good manner in which these issues have been considered. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u219	Värderade Herr Talman! Helt kort så vill jag bara säga att jag tycker att det är ett lagförslag som är motiverat, och jag är också glad för att det har gjorts ändringar från det första utkastet i enlighet med de commentarer som har komit in.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u220	Mr President! When there is a significant improvement in the law, the thought first comes to mind that this has not been noticed and done before. At least this is what happened to me when I read this bill. I believe that the proposal to amend the military law is a revolutionary reform in the post-war history of defence. The bill allows the rapid establishment of the necessary troops to protect society and its vital targets against terrorism and pest activity. It will also allow for the multiplication of cyber counter-operational capabilities, since the selected experts, these nerds called in the vernacular, can be ordered to be recruited quickly to prevent the collapse of the information systems, to perform their regeneration and restoration. The proposal also facilitates the provision of official assistance to other authorities and distinguishes refresher training days from training-related refresher days. In addition to all the good things, the performance will double the number of rematching days for the reservists. Many times there have been speeches in this Chamber on the number of rehearsing days, and so it can be said that Minister Niinistö has done an excellent job in this regard and has been able to increase these rehearsing days. That's what I want to thank the Minister for. As the Pre-Operator of the Reserve, I thank the Government and the Minister for Defence for this revolutionary proposal and give it all my support. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u221	Mr. Speaker! As I said earlier in the debate, this is a welcome change in the law. We may have a unique system in Finland, a general military service and a wartime army based on reserve people. The fact that we are reforming our legislation and making it as it is today is only a good thing and only a good thing. When we do this, it also has a psychological effect, it has a preventive and stabilising effect on our entire defence system. None of us wants the worst to happen, and that is why we must do so in everything. Finnish soldiers are skilled. On international missions, our soldiers will be commended. The best aspects of civilian competence will also then also become available for military expertise, and our studies will also show what, for example, the National Defence Information Board keeps annual, that we have a very high will to defend the country, and that is a good thing. Mr. Speaker! Of these refresher exercises: Now we have reached the level we need to be at the very least. There are 18,000 reserve personnel to review, but there are also voluntary refresher exercises, what the Defence Forces buy from MPK and what the National Defence Training Association organises for volunteers. This is about several tens of thousands. In the future we will be living in very tight economic times, but this is our cornerstone, our fundamental pillar, that we can organise refresher exercises, just as Mr Karik has already pointed out here, and I would like to ask the Minister for these appropriations. How this is coming here at the end of the spending limits period
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u222	Mr President! One thing that's easy to forget is volunteers. Finland needs voluntary defence, which is important, long-term work to maintain and promote Finland’s security. Finnish people's interest in voluntary national defence has also increased among women. The desire to participate in the defence work has always been strong among them. Both internal and externalpolicy threats haveincreased over the Voluntary national defence work is an ideological civic activity that respects the work of previous generations, but also knows responsibility for Finnish security. This must continue to be supported by the state. In my opinion, there should also be a constructive debate in Finland about the importance of home security forces. In Sweden, the main task of the domestic security forces, which cover the whole country and are about 22,000 soldiers, is to protect critical infrastructure in the event of an increase in preparedness. These include, for example, sites related to securing important functions in society. The home security forces can also provide official assistance to other authorities during the peace period. It is now a time of peace in Finland, but, for example, during violent immigration, we would need a home security force if we had one. I believe that the Home Guard could be made up of people trained in military police, for example, because they have the appropriate training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u223	Mr President! Last week, as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Defence Committee and First Sergeant of the Reserve, I was able to meet representatives of the National Gambling Guild here in Helsinki. Their message was the same as I have heard from these voluntary defence organizations often already. Part of the exercise is organised as exercises by the Defence Forces, as refresher exercises in defence work, and the other half is organised by voluntary defence in the same defence work. However, employers have the freedom, at their discretion, to grant workers exemption from their duties to voluntary national defence exercises. Is there some kind of new focus on this problem area? I am referring mainly to what I said earlier that, from the point of view of this overall defence, defence organisations also play an important role in promoting the performance of the country as a whole. And then to that question by Mr Hongisto, why has there never been such a good legislative proposal before? I would like to add one more question to the questions I raised to the Minister: Is it true that 2007 legislation was introduced into this legislation that is still in force because of the desire of the business community? Since industry needs workers in the workplace and not in military exercises, has this three-month withdrawal period been fixed before the exercises?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u224	And now the Minister still has the floor, as long as this now reasonably takes time — but not more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank all Members for their constructive contributions across party boundaries. The debate will continue, at least in the Committee on Defence, and defence is our common concern. I will try to answer the questions that have been asked, but I must start with this last question by Mrs Kari and admit that I cannot say why this three-month withdrawal period came — whether it was business or what — but this issue can be resolved. Congressman Juvonen asked if they would invite over 50-year-olds to a refresher exercise, i.e. if there was some kind of age ceiling. It is not, as Mr Kulmala replied with his own personal example, of course with a rare one, because it is, however, a Member of Parliament: there is no age ceiling. But the fact is that if we talk about flexible capacity-building in the form of a refresher exercise, it is mainly young men, of course, women, who are called then. However, there are parents in demanding leadership positions, but in the front line it is mostly the work of younger people. It should be noted that we have the money to organise these reservist refresher exercises for 18,000 reservists per year at the moment, and so money on this issue is an obstacle. In reply to Mr Kari, in this spending limits period, in accordance with the Government Programme, the intention is indeed to maintain this level of 18000 refresher exercises, which is what has been prioritised. I am the first to admit that this amount is not good, it is, at most, satisfactory, given that, especially during the last parliamentary term, refresher exercises were practically reduced to a minimum and there was a lack of education and, at the same time, a reform of the way in which the Army fought. But in any case, these must go, and voluntary training complements this training provided by the Defence Forces, just as Mr Savola said. But even without the call for a refresher exercise, an official one, can work in the framework offered by voluntary defence organisations, by defence students of all ages — for example, as Mr Savola also said, the National Defence Training Association is doing a particularly good job in this respect. Congressman Kari asked if there was any reason to calm the public down. Of course, responsible politicians must be responsible, especially in matters as serious as defence matters. We must not intimidate the people with vain ends, but, on the other hand, we must not sweep the problems under the carpet, but we must strive for determined work to promote Finland's defence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u226	Mr President! I believe that the amendment to the military law now before us is very appropriate and very necessary. The world around us has changed at a very rapid pace in recent years. We have an army of military service, general military service and regional defence, and there is a will to defend the country in this nation. This bill, which is now a proposal from the government, which has come to Parliament, is very necessary, and quite rightly this three-month rule is being changed and creating a system that operates flexibly in a situation where Finland should be concerned about its own security and specifically prepare for its worst. It is also important to remember that Finland's foreign policy and international cooperation always originate from the wise words that Urho Kekkonen said in his day, that we should have friends nearby, always close to friends, and enemies far away. That is the right way to think about things, that is to say, foreign policy must be friendly and cooperative in all directions, and then we must keep our own country in order to ensure that the defence issues are handled well, that there is a sufficient number of refresher exercises, that a well-trained reserve will always be held ready and that men and women who are involved in defence missions or, if necessary, in tougher tasks will have the appropriate equipment. Believability is based on knowing things, on good equipment and on the will to work. Finland manages with these three things, and this bill is an excellent supporter of this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u227	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u228	Mr President! This is a government proposal to the Parliament for the adoption of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation of income tax with Uzbekistan and on the prevention of tax evasion and for the adoption of the provisions of the Protocol which fall within the scope of the legislation. The proposal proposes that Parliament adopt the Protocol of March 2016 amending the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes and avoidance of tax avoidance with Uzbekistan. The Protocol amends the provisions on the exchange of information on the Agreement and adds a provision on official assistance in the recovery of taxes. This proposal has been brought to Parliament because it concerns matters covered by the legislation of international obligations, and it is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u229	Mr President! This is about avoiding double taxation of income tax and preventing tax avoidance. It is good that the same income is not taxed twice, i.e. in two different countries, but it is not good that there is a lot of income that is not taxed at all. The Panama papers that have come out indicate that the fears and concerns about the large assets hidden in tax havens and the large profits directed there, which remain secret, have proved to be entirely justified. I understand that the government has been discussing today a strategy to combat the shadow economy, and I expect that the government will very quickly step up its efforts to combat tax evasion and the shadow economy. There is a need for international cooperation here, and the OECD and the EU are making progress on these issues, but there is also a need for national action. Of course, there is not always a clear line between the actual illegal tax evasion and then the very complex aggressive tax planning that exploits tax havens, and I understand that even at the moment there are legal processes in Finland where this limit is sought. However, I would like to point out that if we feel that aggressive tax planning, which is highly complex and exploits tax loopholes and tax havens, is reprehensible, then we, as legislators, will also have the opportunity, if necessary, to specify the limit at which prohibited tax evasion begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u230	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u231	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new separate law on crowdfunding and to amend certain other laws. Crowdfunding refers to open requests to the general public to raise funds for a specific project. Crowdfunding is a way to collect funding for projects by individuals and organisations as well as for the activities of companies. With regard to crowdfunding, we could say that small brooks create a large river and have the opportunity to achieve great and important things. The aim of the proposal is to clarify legislation, improve investor protection, increase financing options for companies and diversify financial markets. The adoption of the crowdfunding law must be seen as an important step forward. It is the first national legislative project related to economic competitiveness in which Finland acts as a pioneer. The proposed regulation will give crowdfunding clear rules of play. At the same time, the legislator will improve access to finance for SMEs and growth enterprises. This in turn is expected to have an impact on more stable and sustainable economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u232	Mr President! This government proposal for a crowdfunding law can be welcomed in many respects. At least SMEs and investors have access to the asset side here, but also Finland as a whole. The government and the Minister for Finance are to be commended for the swift implementation of this important legislative project. The unprejudiced grip shown by the government is exactly what is needed in this country. Legislation does not always have to be limited; it can also be possible. Mr President! In the business field, the need for a clear crowdfunding law has been identified for a long time. Previous legislation has been very open to interpretation and, in particular, small financial companies, i.e. fintech start-ups, have been in distress in the midst of strict registration procedures and changing rules of play. There is now a change in the new law. In the future, the crowdfunding intermediary does not have to join the investor compensation fund. In addition, the capital requirements associated with investment services legislation will be reduced to a reasonable level. This, in turn, will, over time, facilitate the financial position of domestic SMEs, as this will also provide more money. For the investor, the new law is also a change for the better. It makes investing in start-ups a real option without profit-eating intermediaries. In the future, a crowdfunding platform will no longer need to be authorised by an investment firm even if the financial instruments to be transferred are transferable securities. Mr President! As a result of this reform, Finland is a pioneer in the field of crowdfunding in Europe. Unlike in general, the possibilities offered by EU-level regulation to coordinate domestic and EU legislation were now unprejudiced. Hopefully, this advantage will also be used in the future to strengthen the dynamism of the entire entrepreneurial field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u233	Mr President! After all, this crowdfunding law is usually about financing small, medium-sized enterprises in the growth phase or in the start-up phase with very small sums, usually through the Internet with a large number of funding. After all, this has been completely lacking in the rules of the game in Finland. Of course, the question may be asked whether the fund-raising law could not somehow apply to this, but it is a question of raising money for a public purpose. On the other hand, crowdfunding is about small start-ups, which are usually the ones that need funding, and in no case is a matter of general interest. Now, this government proposal provides for two types of crowdfunding: may be free of charge or may be funded for consideration, in which case a part of the profit or other consideration will be promised to these contributors. All in all, this issue has perhaps become more acute in recent years, partly because bank and other traditional funding has become more difficult as a result of the financial crisis and there is now a need for regulation. Although this has been very small in Finland — it can be said that, in part, due to the lack of legislation, it has already had quite a large scale in the world. At European level, for example, it has been estimated that last year this crowdfunding was raised by EUR 6 billion, USD 17 billion in the United States. That is why it is extremely important for us to take a position on this now too, to create legislation and to have:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u234	Mr President! The government must be commended when there is a place for commendation. It is a great thing that a proposal was put forward as a law for crowdfunding. This is what is needed because, as the previous speaker described, these forms of crowdfunding are really very different from each other, both functionally and economically. No law has ever covered them all before. I see for myself that crowdfunding can provide a wide range of opportunities for the growth of ideas, businesses and thus provide us with content and the good economic growth that is needed. After all, crowdfunding was also mentioned at today's government's information conference on the entrepreneurship package and the employment package. It is indeed one concrete means — unfortunately, the only concrete means found in this government package. It is precisely the start-up companies, which are currently growing and emerging many, that this crowdfunding can give a real chance. I encourage the government to bring more of these concrete, positive, indeed impressive measures in order to achieve positive and good, high-quality economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u235	Mr President! As Mr Modig said, when it is time to thank him, we should thank him, and today we are right to say that we have thanked the government all day long. So I will actually continue with how and how we can mobilise this capital-poor investment capital in Finland. This is where the government shows us how to do it. In Finland, you can say, even too many euros, when you think about what you can do with them when you put them in a position and then create new jobs and activities. At the end of 2014, there were only about 13 crowdfunding or intermediate service platforms in Finland. That is very little, and this proposal is now intended to speed up this development. crowdfunding offers a lot of opportunities for seed, growth and small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for creative projects, if you look at the possibilities of music, cinema, culture, and this work in Finland is already on a good model. Overall, however, Finland’s problem has been this number of actual investments. How are we gonna get this plane going? It is a wider issue, and that is not just what this law is about to decide by sitting here. But, as I said, work needs to be done, and this can also be one model of how the domestic food industry and its style of solutions can be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u236	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u237	Mr President! In this government proposal, it is proposed to amend the church law so that the keeping of the title becomes voluntary for the employer. In this case, the obligation to disclose information on officials and employees contained in the Act on Titles would no longer oblige employers under the Church Act. A new provision on leave to work would also be added to the Church Act. This proposal seeks to make legislation more appropriate. At present, various information systems exist in different congregations to keep the title book, which has cost the congregations a lot of money. In turn, the voluntary keeping of the title book now being proposed will mean savings when software and the updating of the title book are discontinued.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u238	Mr President! Indeed, the government’s proposal suggests that the keeping of the title would be voluntary for the employer, but the court will continue to keep the title of priests and lecturers in the diocese. The purpose of the title is to provide the employer with reliable information on employees and officials. The initials correspond in part to the certificate of employment and it is a public document. It is proposed to amend the right of the holder of the post to leave work for the purpose of managing the municipal trust to reflect the corresponding provision of the new municipal law, and to refer here to section 52a. A provision has also been introduced for employment leave: he would have the same right as an employee under the Employment Contracts Act. Similarly, the employer would be obliged to inform the Employment Office of any dismissal on economic and production grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u239	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u240	Mr President! The government's proposal proposes to amend the hunting law to prevent African swine fever so that solid artificial light can be used in the hunting of wild boar and raccoon dogs at boar feeding points. I thank the government on behalf of all hunters and pig producers, because it is a good proposal. It could be even better, though. The purpose of the presentation is to reduce swine fever by reducing wild boars and raccoon dogs. Upon arriving in Finland, African swine fever would have significant economic consequences for the pig economy of our country. If a single case of infection in a pig farm were detected in Finland, all pigs in that pig farm would have to be stopped. Action under the proposal must therefore be taken quickly. It is a question of the future of the Finnish pig economy. It is also a question of the Finnish economy. According to the proposal, the average price estimate for one African swine fever for the national economy would be around EUR 10.5 million, although the variation may be very high. The livestock sector would suffer losses of approximately EUR 17.3 million. We have also made a number of cuts in subsidies of the same size during this term of government, so we will certainly understand the size of the figures. And so it would be just one case of swine fever in our country. African swine fever has not yet been diagnosed, lucky for us, in Finland. The presentation would also provide for the hunting of raccoon dogs at the boar feeding site, as the raccoon naturally uses the same places as the boar as its dining places. A raccoon can thus be a potential spreader of African swine fever. It is easy to forget that a raccoon dog is a foreign beast not included in Finland, as is mink, and is already spreading diseases that are being combated, among other things, by the feeds of rabies vaccines that fall to the eastern border. Currently, around 200,000 raccoon dogs are caught in Finland each year. This is not enough to control even the growth or spread of the stock to our neighbouring country, Sweden. It is estimated that there are about 1,500 boars. It is proposed that the position be halved in accordance with the proposal, and I believe that this is the right proposal. Courageous decisions should also be taken to minimise the number of raccoons. We therefore need more effective and more open-minded ways of controlling stocks. Enhanced fishing for both species would have an impact not only on the conservation of biodiversity but also on reducing disease risks. In my opinion, it should be possible to use solid artificial light not only in feeding places for wild boar but always in hunting for raccoons and mink. This would enhance the hunting of small predators and make hunting even safer in the dark. The safety of hunting is in the interests of all of us. Even from the point of view of game management, it is inappropriate that the existence of a fixed light would prevent a raccoon dog and mink from hunting in the dark. Mr President! As I said at the beginning of my speech, this government proposal is good, but it could be even better. I believe that effective fishing and innovative measures, which are rightly targeted, will produce good results in reducing wild boars and small predators in a short period of time. One good reform of the law would, in my opinion, be to pay a fee of EUR 5 for the leather of raccoon dogs and mink, for example. This would increase the hunting of these non-Finnish foreign predators, especially by young hunters, unemployed people and pensioners. This would also improve the attitude of hunters to raccoon dogs and minks, as this would add value to leather. The premium should be tax-free, such as the sale of mushrooms and berries. I believe that funding for the game management premium would come from the EU or Sweden, because it is also intended to prevent the spread of small predators to Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u241	Mr President! African swine fever is a virus-induced haemorrhagic fever in pigs and wild boars, for which no vaccine or treatment is currently in force. The disease is not known to be transmitted to humans but can be transmitted to farmed animals used in pig production. This is why the disease is particularly dangerous for our pig producers, so it must be prevented by all means available. One of the most effective means of disease prevention is to reduce the potential vectors of the disease, i.e. wild boars. According to the current estimate, Finland has some 1,500 wild boars, but the stock is growing strongly. In hunting, the law currently in force generally prohibits, among other things, the use of artificial light sources and target lighting devices. The draft law therefore proposes to amend the hunting law so that wild boars and raccoon dogs can be used in hunting with fixed artificial light. The power to adopt a regulation in the law would be supplemented to provide for, for example, the use of a fence as a means of fishing. Pigs and raccoons usually come to feeding places at dark or dark times, so lighting the target helps to shoot an accurate shot and thus helps the animal die as quickly and painlessly as possible. We hunters are also aware of our responsibility for this important issue of agricultural production and we want to help pig producers so that dangerous diseases do not spread to Finland. Mr President! I consider the bill to be excellent and to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u242	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the hunting law and to combat this outbreak of swine fever in this country is a very good bill and is very welcome. African swine fever is a very dangerous disease that is already on our borders in the south and east, and that means that there is a genuine risk of its spread to Finland. That is why hunting needs to be stepped up, and I think it is good and worthwhile to use this solid light at a hunting event. At the same time, however, I would like to raise another issue, which is also related to this spread of various dangerous diseases in Finland and specifically to their prevention. Hunters are in themselves very good natural keepers and game breeders and have, for example, been hunting raccoons to remove the animals, game pests, a large number of them each year. The same goes for minks, foxes, etcetera. It must be remembered that rabies, for example, is still a disease in our country that plagues the animal kingdom. Especially on the eastern border have these food vaccines, which have been injected into, for example, baits, pieces of meat, those vaccines, and then, when the animals eat them, they receive a vaccine against rabies. It must be remembered that the more effective it is in this country to treat the game population and control these animals, the better the game population will survive and remain healthy. It must also be borne in mind that today the wolf population in this country has grown far too large, even though it is often strongly opposed to the fact that it is endangered. It is not an endangered species, and it must be remembered that the wolf population also spreads about rabies and interacts with dogs. If a dog survives handling them alive, there is a possibility of spreading rabies. Let us hope that a sensible solution can be found in this area as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u243	Mr President! The problems caused by non-natural foreign predators, raccoon dog and mink are great for Finland’s nature and its diversity. Both are highly effective as killers of water and chicken birds, increase effectively and adapt quickly to new habitats. In my opinion, in a conurbated area, small predators should be allowed to be caught with live traps. At present, urban areas, in particular, are natural protected areas for small beasts, as they are not allowed to hunt and there are no natural enemies for small beasts. I believe small-scale predators should also be able to be caught with trap and immediately killing cuffs without a hunting card when it comes to the owner of the hunting right, the owner of the land or the person who rented the hunting right. This would facilitate the reduction of small predators, for example in summer cottage plots. In both of the cases mentioned above, small predators caught in a trap would be transported outside the agglomeration where they would be killed as quickly and painlessly as possible, in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act, by means of a method and technique suitable for killing. The professional hunter of this operation rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u244	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u245	Mr President! This government proposal has been submitted to Parliament to supplement the proposal for a new Tobacco Act with the aim of prohibiting smoking within a private vehicle when there is a person under 15 years of age. This issue has already been before in Parliament. During the examination of the partial reform of the Tobacco Act, the 2009 proposal, it was proposed to ban smoking indoors of non-general vehicles when the holding is under 18 years of age. In this case, the proposal was blocked by constitutional reasons. However, the debate on this issue has also continued here in Parliament. We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have a motion for a tobacco law before us, and this is indeed a supplementary proposal. This proposal could reduce the exposure of children to tobacco smoke and thus reduce the health damage caused by tobacco smoke. There have been many disagreements about the ban in the preparation of the matter. Some commentators have considered that smoking in a car in the presence of a child fills the mark of abuse. Some, for their part, felt that the proposal would be too much to protect private life. This proposal raises constitutional issues, which is why the government proposes that the draft be submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion. However, I am convinced that the right solutions will be found in the work of the committee. Mr President! I think this proposal is very good. I think we should protect our children from tobacco smoke, and even the thought of someone still smoking in a car when a child is present seems strange. With this government proposal, we want it to be taken away, and it is very good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u246	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! There is a government proposal in the proceedings, which complements the Government's proposal for the reform of the Tobacco Act, which is already in place here in Parliament. Even in the debate on referrals to that law, I drew attention to the fact that there was no provision in the government’s proposal that smoking should not be allowed in the car if there were children. Now, with this supplementary proposal, the government will correct this deficiency in its original proposal, and that is a good thing. Mr. Speaker! I have no doubt that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will welcome this supplementary proposal. This is to protect children, their health. If anyone suspects this, let him read on page 3 of this proposal about the studies — for example, reference is made to a Canadian study which has found: "Even smoking one cigarette in a car raises tobacco smoke levels to the same or higher level than it is in the smokeiest restaurants or bars." So think about it: even one cigarette in a car will raise concentrations to the same level or even higher than in the most smoking restaurants or bars. Which one of us would take a baby to a smoky bar or a restaurant? Well, we have protected adults and banned smoking in restaurants and bars, but in the car, even though there are children, you can still smoke. So the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will certainly support this proposal, I believe. The problem here — I would like to say: here too — is the Constitutional Committee and its strange interpretations. In 2010, the unanimous government proposed that smoking in the car be prohibited if there were children. And the unanimous Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that the Finnish Constitution prevented such a ban from being imposed, which naturally led Parliament to abolish this act from the law then discussed. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is absurd and incomprehensible. Here, on page 3 of the government proposal, we read of countries where such bans are already in force: some states in the USA, Canada and Australia, Europe, including France, England, Wales, Scotland and Cyprus, and this has already been decided in Ireland and Italy. I am absolutely convinced that in these countries there is at least as much emphasis on individual freedom as in Finland, but I do not think that in these countries there is any legislator, that is to say any parliament or parliament in any country, even the idea that such an act would be contrary to the Constitution. In Finland, the unanimous Constitutional Committee took a different view. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that if an adult were to be banned from smoking in a car with a child, it would overly restrict the individual freedom and privacy of that adult. The child’s right to health, which our Constitution also knows, or the right to health in general, did not weigh anything in that consideration of the Constitutional Committee. I do not know how many doctors are now to be marched into the Constitutional Committee to hear whether one, two, three, a dozen are enough to convince the Constitutional Committee of the arguments on page 3 of the Government’s proposal, which tell us how seriously smoking in a car harms the child’s health. As I said, the problem was the Constitutional Committee in 2010 — hopefully it will not be a problem this time. The interpretation of the opinions of the then Constitutional Committee is completely incomprehensible. An adult who smokes can stop a car every 20 or 30 minutes to go out for a cigarette, while a child in the car, such as a baby in a car seat, cannot run away from the smoking adult. The interpretation of this personal freedom adopted then by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is, in my opinion, essentially a reminder of the idea of individual freedom by the American National Rifle Association, which, if I have understood it correctly, is the right and freedom of every free man, apparently a white man, to carry a weapon when he wishes. Our Committee on Constitutional Affairs in 2010, in its unanimous opinion, apparently began by the fact that the right of every adult man and woman to smoke in their car was a child, a baby or not, within the scope of his constitutional individual freedom. Even to weigh the fundamental right against the fundamental right, the individual's right to health, obviously did not come to the committee at the time, or, if it did, the position was completely inconceivable. When you look at this opinion of the Constitutional Committee, you can see that most of the members of the committee who gave a unanimous opinion on 5 May 2010 are no longer members of Parliament. I do not think there is any causality between these matters, but I have said this now. But he draws attention to the four members of the committee who are still members of the Parliament, and one of them is the chairman of the Greens, Ville Niinistö. The Greens who are here every day pious about children’s rights — their chairman Ville Niinistö is looking at, or at least in 2010, that the right of an adult to smoke in a car with a child enjoys constitutional protection but the child’s right to health in that car does not enjoy constitutional protection. So Ville Niinistö interpreted the Constitution in such a way that it is against the Constitution to ban smoking in a car for adults if there are underage children in the car. I want to believe, Mr President, even though it has only been six years, almost to the day, from the statement that today's Committee on Constitutional Affairs is thinking quite differently. It is strange, however, that even to this day and this government proposal, page 5, says that the Ministry of Justice, in its opinion, considered the proposal to be constitutionally problematic. So the Ministry of Justice, which should defend the fundamental rights of citizens, including the fundamental rights of minors, felt that it was constitutionally problematic to ban adult smoking in a car in the presence of a child. I cannot understand the opinion of the Ministry of Justice except in the light that the old opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has resolved the opinion of the Ministry of Justice in this matter. If today's Committee on Constitutional Affairs comes back to the conclusion that the Finnish Constitution prevents smoking from being banned in a car when there is a child — unlike the constitution of many other countries, in which the freedom of the individual and the protection of privacy are also known — then I must say that in some way, as a constitutional lawyer, I would feel ashamed if the Constitutional Committee adopted such a position today. Mr. Speaker! As far as the details of the bill are concerned, it has come from the fact that the police are not responsible for monitoring this matter. I don't understand why a police officer who controls the use of safety belts and the ban on talking to his cell phone is not in the same raid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u247	Mr President! This bill is probably necessary, but I think about it from the point of view of the former overseer. So if there is a law that has not been sanctioned and which has not been regulated by certain supervisors, and there are not enough of those overseers, does that change of law, or in general, make much difference? It's more of a nice gesture. At the moment, a fine gesture is the use of a bicycle helmet when driving a bicycle and the use of a reflector as a pedestrian in the dark and dark. They have not been sanctioned, nor will they be monitored for that reason either. Nor does it make any sense to report to the emergency centre that in a particular car there is smoking in a parking lot and there are children inside, that the police are leaving somewhere 50 kilometres away to see this situation and that there is no sanction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u248	Mr President! It is interesting that Mr Zyskowicz assumes that, in this referral debate, instructions should be given on how the Constitutional Committee should interpret the Constitution. The Constitution and the Constitution are what they are, and the Constitutional Committee, of course, is almost responsible for making its own decisions. I'm a little puzzled about this crusade against the interpretation of the Constitution. The second point is that, while we are now breaking down regulations which are not absolutely necessary and which cannot be controlled, there is also one provision here that makes you wonder whether it is really necessary to go ahead with such a regulation, which is not intended to be monitored. I do support all the government's proposals in principle, but I did think about how necessary this proposal was.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u249	Mr President! Yes, we have laws without sanctions. I personally think that they are important signals of the will of the legislator. Yes, we have a lot of citizens who are following the law because it is a law, not just because a police officer is going to tell us to. If you think about the Tobacco Act, we have, for example, a decree that the housing company can decide that there is no smoking in the children's sandbox. Well, if there's some disgusting neighbor who smokes all the time, what can that housing company do? At least I do not know that they could do anything about it, but kindly urge him to move away from smoking. However, I think it is a good thing that this kind of opportunity for the housing company has that told the resident quite clearly that it is not considered acceptable that you will be smoking while the children are playing. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, Mr Ala-Nissila, the Constitution is what it is, but the Constitutional Committee interprets it. And for these interpretations, of course, in the referral debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u250	Let's go to the list of speakers. There may be some need to reply here, but when there are a few actual speakers left, I hope that those who wish to say something will then say after this list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u251	Mr President! I think it is inconsiderate, you might say, even foolish and morally reprehensible to smoke tobacco in a car if there are children — in this case the age limit has been set at 15 years, saying that people under 15 are under 15 years old. However, by law, we have not normally used all the language that is reprehensible and morally reprehensible. One might also think that one who is so inconsiderate in the best interests of the child that smoking tobacco in the car while the children are there is hardly going to stop doing so after the entry into force of this law, because this has not been in any way intended to be sanctioned and it has not been thought that the police will have any control over this activity. Furthermore, I think that we have a lot of reprehensible activities that we have not, for one reason or another, wanted to go out and ban by law. One might even think that excessive drinking by parents harms children, or one might even think that long - term arguing by parents is bad for children. But no one has suggested that these should be prohibited by law. It is one thing to regard it as reprehensible, morally reprehensible and, in many ways, harmful than to impose a ban on it by law. When the law is enacted, there should be some tough criteria and precise limits that will be laid down by the law. It too is that everything that the law allows is not necessarily appropriate. That is why I would be thinking in the same way that the Ministry of Justice has considered this whole thing, thinking that this supervision is so difficult that there is no need for this law, and it might be better not to regulate this in this respect. We have also had a lot of talk about the fact that we have too many laws and standards in society. Then we legislators should think carefully when we have talked about the dismantling of standards as well as whether the proposed law is reasonable and appropriate. When the Government's proposal mentions the effects of the law here, it says: "A violation of the ban could be detected, for example, in a day-care centre, which could be notified if necessary to the municipal child welfare authority. The primary means of intervention would be to discuss with parents and provide other child protection support in accordance with the Child Welfare Act and the Social Welfare Act." In this regard, it must be noted that such means, legal means, are still in place if the authorities find that the parents are acting against the health of the children and the best interests of the child. This law does not bring anything new here either. In that sense, I myself think that we must now consider very carefully in committee whether there is a need for legislation which is not intended to be monitored and which does not bring anything new to the current course of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u252	Mr President! In a small enclosed space, such as the car, the levels of poison in the air also increase to a non-smoking level that endangers health. This is particularly relevant to the health of the child. However, I do not believe that this problem, which inevitably affects the child, should be solved by means of tightening up the tobacco law. It is the responsibility of the guardian to ensure that the child’s growing environment is safe and healthy. The guardian should not allow smoking in the car where the child travels. If the guardian shows such disregard for the health of his child or even by smoking itself, the child’s health can be compromised by means of existing law, as described in the government’s proposal. The Child Welfare Act is a way of solving this problem — we can resolve it if we have the will. From school experience, I can tell you that when you travel with a child in a car, smoking is a lot of thoughtlessness. The fact is that the child suffers in many ways. Highly smoking - smelling schoolchildren ’ clothes may even be the object of bullying. When the matter is brought up with the guardian, the situation usually changes. I encourage courage on the principle of 'the whole village is growing', so in this case the guardian is also growing. I do not think there should be a new ban on the law that is not being enforced and that is not being sanctioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u253	Mr President! This time, a bill restricting smoking would mean that a small person’s parent or someone else who drives a car while the child is on board should not smoke in this car. The idea of this is very good and worthy of support. Indeed, a small person needs to be protected, and one must remember that when a small person unwittingly draws that cigarette smoke into his lungs, he is helpless to decide whether he wants it or not. Yes, protecting this little child is important. The fact that we are now making a legislative proposal is very contradictory in the sense that such legislative measures, which restrict the behaviour of a person, for example, in a car that he owns, which is his private space, are admittedly going into a somewhat sensitive area, but in my opinion it must be restricted, because it is a matter of human health. Mr Zyskowicz, in his own speech, strongly criticised the opinion of the Constitutional Committee in 2010. I was not there at the time — or I was there, I was a deputy, I was not an actual member, I was a deputy in that committee — so that I could not say what the spirit of the debate was then in the committee. But in any case, the Constitution always assumes that certain matters are covered by privacy and are then protected until the end. Of course, there are two interests here: is protecting human health a greater interest than restricting private rights? It is always a matter of considering whether the provision on privacy that arises and the benefit from it outweighs the right that has been lost itself. This is a reflection which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs always does, and certainly does not, in any way take the attitude or even the view that there is perhaps a conscious trampling of someone's rights. Not in any case, but it is a question of these interests, which are being protected by the new legislation, the reflection on the rights of individuals, always being heard by genuine experts. With regard to the interpretation of what Mr Zyskowicz said, that the Constitutional Committee was terribly wrong, it is a very strict reflection, just as Mr Ala-Nissila said, that the Constitutional Committee is always considering, as an institution, every bill that comes to that statement or report. That is exactly the way, let us consult the experts, then give a statement. Personally, I have never smoked so that, in itself, this issue is never a problem for me or for anyone who travels in my car, because I have not put tobacco in my mouth, but I understand the need for a small person who is defenceless and who is in a position to smoke in the car. I find this law a little unpleasant. Adult people driving — who have reached 18 years of age and who are legally viable — should have the sense of not smoking when children or people in general are present. If you want that one cigarette or even a cigar to enjoy, then you should go to the outdoors where no one will be harmed. When a restriction is made, then let us consider in the Constitutional Committee whether this goes under the protection of privacy. In my opinion, a small person must always be protected and the conditions of his health at an older age guaranteed. A small person is very vulnerable and should be protected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u254	Mr President! At the beginning of his speech, I believe that Mr Salmon presented a perfectly well-founded philosophy that everything that is permitted by law is not necessarily right and so on. But I would say that even if we cannot and do not want to intervene in all the adult activities that harm the child, whether it is a parental quarrel or a drinking drink, that is not the reason why we do not intervene in something that we want and can intervene in. After all, we have intervened, for example, in physical discipline. I understand that a parent who physically disciplines his child is guilty of a forbidden act in doing so, for example in it we have considered that this child’s interest is so important that this kind of intimate, private relationship is interfered with. And when you read the reasons for the government’s proposal, you can really ask which is the real disadvantage of a child: that his mother or father gives him a lither once, or that a parent or both smoke in a car every morning while taking their child to day care? On the Constitutional Committee: It is indeed a matter of weighing between different interests and different legal advantages. Of course, there are no solutions to the Constitution itself, but it is an interpretation. In this analysis, I explained how I would weigh these matters and, in fact, I expect and believe that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will see this in the same light. Of course, the fact that someone considers the law to be unjustified, unnecessary is no reason to regard it as unconstitutional. Of course, there can be a general discussion of the importance of laws that are, above all, such signals. But like I said,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u255	Mr President! So we already have a motion for a tobacco law in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and this is a supplementary proposal. I would like to thank everyone for their good contributions. Several speeches have shown what is the idea of the representatives. In particular, Mr Hoskonen said it vigorously — a small person must be protected — if I remember correctly that he said so. I think that's what he said. That is the starting point and the idea: a small person must be protected. Whether it's a law or a gesture, there's a different kind of exchange of views here. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health will wait for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the opinion, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will weigh it in mind and then make its own interpretation. We will certainly have a rich and wide-ranging debate in committee, and all these different opinions on this matter will certainly be strongly involved in our debate there too. This proposal, on the one hand, is very important and, on the other hand, contains many of these questions, which have been raised here. This is the case, isn't it? The committee will take this on board and I will give my regards to the various ideas there. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u256	Mr President! So I still believe that smoking in a car with minors, especially small children, is thoughtless and morally reprehensible, and in that sense I fully agree with Mrs Zyskowicz and Mrs Juvonen. But what bothers me a little is that, at the same time, quite a few of those who are now the strongest advocates of this amendment of the law are pushing for a strong liberalisation of alcohol law. And if we think about proportionality in this situation, I think that much more of these young children, if they are to be protected, are affected by the harm caused by alcohol than by the fact that someone in the car smokes. I think that this phenomenon is also marginal, as smoking has decreased here in Finland, and that is why it bothers me that this sense of proportion has now gone: it is believed that now that the world is getting better, when the fact is that this has not been sanctioned, everyone who is so stupid that they are doing so will certainly continue to do the same thing. This problem is also explained by the fact that this government proposal states that if it is a motorhome, it is allowed to smoke there even though there are children. In other words, this situation is quite crazy if we try to improve this existing state in this way. Anyone who thinks a little further understands and knows that this situation does not improve from the point of view of child protection. And if someone in Finland really sees that in the presence of a small child, these authorities, who could intervene after this law, can intervene just as much now. That is why I consider this to be inappropriate legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u257	Mr President! Here I understood that this is the way it goes, that when this is not presented here as a sanction, this is an unjustified act, and there were arguments as to why this is unjustified. Here on page 5 of the government proposal, the third full paragraph, it is reported that Valvira, THL, the National Union for Child Welfare, Doctors against tobacco, and so on, have felt that this should be monitored and sanctioned in the same way as in the case of smoking offences. At least I personally would have no objection to this, and if those who consider this unjustified precisely because there is no special control and sanctions mechanism, this amendment would be prepared to support this law, then that would be one more reason for this supervisory and sanctions side to be organised here. I really don't understand the fact that if we have a raid and the police are allowed to interfere with you talking on your cell phone or not wearing your seat belt, why can't the police say, "Hey, you got two-year-old kids in the back seat, which is why you're smoking here." I can't see what the problem is. And then anyway... — The second point is that it has already occurred to me: I did not quite understand this argument by Mr Salmon that some people imagine that this will solve all the problems and link up with alcohol legislation. At least I do not think that this will solve all the problems and I do not see any connection to the overall reform of alcohol law. We have a tobacco law on the table, and one ban that has already been on the table between 2009 and 2010 has been omitted, and now, in line with the government's proposal, it is good to include it in that law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u258	Mr President! What I meant by what I said earlier was that if we really were concerned about children's safety and child protection, then we should pay attention to those real problems, and in this situation I think that the most serious problem in our society is not that someone smokes in a car, but that we have many other more serious problems in terms of children's rights and the protection of children, and that we should pay more attention to them. Then, if we look at sanctions and controls on this, I think that, in terms of internal security — as we have been here before today, a few hours ago, a pretty good debate on police resources — police resources should not now be directed in this situation when they are already in a tight position, to see if someone is smoking tobacco in the car, but we have far more serious crimes that are not being solved and more serious issues that are not being resolved. This is not currently being sanctioned, and this would not be a crime in that sense, but I would prefer police resources to be used to solve real crimes and to maintain public security rather than to see whether someone accidentally smokes tobacco in the car.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u259	Madam President! This is obviously a circle of misunderstandings. I also do not believe that police resources should now be specifically used to check whether someone smokes in a car in the presence of children. I said that if the police have a raid to see if the seatbelts are fastened and whether they are talking to the mobile phone, why can't the same raid, with the same resources, without additional resources, be tackled without any further involvement. I see no particular problem here. Then this child's safety and protection. I do not understand how the ban on smoking in the car in the presence of children is out of the work that is being done for the safety of children and to protect them otherwise. How is it out of wanting to strengthen the resources of child protection or otherwise to work for the safety of children? If a representative: The salmon could open this up a little bit when it didn't open up to me. I see this in the very way that what we regulate as to whether or not smoking in a car is banned in the presence of children is not in any way affected by what Parliament or the authorities are doing to promote the health of children and the well-being of children and to protect children from various bad things and actions. So somehow it feels like a representative. The salmon invents excuses to oppose this law, to oppose this government's unanimous proposal. Of course, it would be nice to know what the real reasons are. If they have something to do with the overall reform of alcohol law or anything else, then I have to say that I have no such links in my mind. The overall reform of alcohol law is a matter that is pending, and hopefully it will lead to sensible solutions, but I do not understand how that would be a reason to oppose this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u260	Madam Speaker! Representative Zyskowicz and Representative Salmon, this motion of the Tobacco Act. First of all, I was wondering for myself why there was no ban on the issue of tobacco. I think it should be banned there at least while driving, that's how it should be. On the other hand, I wonder about these laws that we have not been sanctioned, such as the use of a bicycle helmet, the use of reflectors. When I myself have mostly worked in road areas, where they have been built and made, and when I have followed people's behavior and other things specifically in urban areas, I think that the laws that have been laid down, for example, for wearing a helmet on a bicycle or for using reflectors, are such educational laws that people begin to use and learn about that activity. Although there is no such sanction here, I am happy to see this as raising these people to think about the fate of that child and why we must not smoke in the car — that they are not exposed to tobacco and other bad weather there. At the very least, I would like the law to include the fate of this motorhome, the way in which it is managed, without any further interference. I think that the law, which, in a way, leads parents to do the right thing, even if there is no sanction, is a good law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u261	Mr President! Of course it must be acknowledged that this is not out of anyone's hands and is not out of that other child welfare work, even if this is prohibited, that is clear. But I myself think a little that this legislation has any sense and effectiveness. When we are making new legislation, we should always consider what its effectiveness is. We are drowning here in Finland, and one can say that in Europe too, there are different standards. We have a lot of standards that are now being dismantled, and then we should always think about whether this really means something to us or not. Now I am just not quite sure that this has not been sanctioned, that is not being monitored and that is, you can say, for the sane people to take for granted that they are not doing this. However, not all morally objectionable things need to be taken to the law. And while this has no connection to the overall reform of alcohol law, I think it is a peculiar feature that those who drive strongly are then liberalising the alcohol policy, and yet there are many more — I dare not say that there is no evidence of it, since there is no evidence of how many people smoke in the car while children are there — harm children if we go into legislation that causes even more alcohol problems. That is why I would like to see those people in this legislation, too, ready to defend a policy that is progressive from the point of view of child protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u262	Does Mrs Parviainen wish to make a reply? — Please, then Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u263	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, from time to time in the school world, these are the things that come in front of a child’s guardian who smokes in a car and smells and smells — it’s terribly difficult for the child himself. But I still believe that this talk with the guardian is much more effective than the fact that, for example, the school people, the kindergarten people, or other accompanying people, in a way, think that it is someone else's business, does not think about it in terms of the health of the child. So I believe that it would be more impressive if we stressed that this is a matter of child protection and not a ban on the tobacco law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u264	Madam President! In my view, Mr Semi has made a good point of pointing out the positive aspects that may exist — and, in this case, I hope it does — even with a legislative act that does not result in sanctions. It is a message to people, and we have a lot of people, I imagine and think of those who want to comply with the law as it stands, even if there is no sanction. I did not know how it was adjusted, but at least I think that if we give a sufficient signal that reflectors should be used it is an excellent thing, because every driver at least knows on the dark road how valuable it is for people to use reflectors. Well, then, Congressman Semi asked me about this, why don't they say no in the RVs? Of course they should be banned, too. If you think that the family is going to Europe in an RV and they are there for many days and they smoke there day and night, then of course it should be banned. But when this fine Constitutional Committee interprets that it is another violation of domestic peace if it is denied in that car, the government has now omitted this point from this motion, and I did not want to blame anyone on this point. However, when there are so few of these motorhomes and there are so few of these smoking adults who smoke with children, I thought that this would be a very marginal problem. But I do not believe if I now honestly say that in America, Australia, Canada, France, Cyprus, whatever these countries were, where this ban has been imposed, any constitutional expert — or not to mention a constitutional court — has stated that smoking in an RV must not be banned because it violates the constitutional protection of domestic peace. Maybe there's less alert constitutional experts there than we do. Mr. Salmon, I think you'll get me a friend to break down the general standards and eliminate unnecessary regulations, but I'm sure we'll each have our own black dots, so I mean that all standards have been born of some need in the past, and it's not easy to eliminate and dismantle them, because every standard has had or has a good purpose. In my opinion, this standard, although I admit that this is contrary to these attempts to dismantle standards, is a good idea and it is intended to inform all parents that if there are children in your car, stop smoking in the car. This is what the law says, and it suits me, as I said, that if you raid and smoke in the presence of children, the police would also point out. I am also happy to see a sanction in the form of a smoking offence if this is the way the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is considering it. Now that you are fighting these unwarranted standards, you are opposed, Mr Salmon, to the regulation that the housing company can really decide that the children's playground of that housing company should not be allowed to smoke? No reasonable person will smoke on that sandbox. But then there are the less sensible people who are going to smoke, and there is no sanction for that decree, and there is no such thing as a resident of a housing company whose child is playing with it and next to it is able to do anything about it. He can't even call the police if it's not an act of general criminalization. And, Mr Salmon, I can give you other examples, I am sure, in this parliamentary term too, of regulations which you may just as well object to. Well, then, this alcohol policy. So your logic is that those who are in favour of liberalising alcohol policy cannot support such a tightening of tobacco policy. This isn't how I think about it. Incidentally, I am not in favour of bringing wine to the supermarkets, by the way, but I do not see any connection with these. At the same time, do you mean that those who are in favour of a strict alcohol policy, such as anti-liberalisation measures of all kinds, then also in favour of a strict ban on smoking in the car? I don't really see this logical connection in these things. There are a lot of all sorts of unpleasant things that we do not intervene in and cannot intervene in. There are some things we can deal with. Why don't we just intervene if we can? Especially since we have this kind of government unanimous motion here on the table, why don't we take it? The representative then mentioned that when you take young children to school and smoke in the car: Representative Salmon, these fools, as you said, or whatever you called these people, is in living life. You said that there would then be a discussion with the guardian. This will certainly and hopefully be done in practice, but it will not help to bring it up too harshly, because then this adult will probably be able to appeal to the Parliamentary Ombudsman and ask that what regulation or what right is the basis for this introduction of a teacher or someone else. We had one school there in Sastamala where the children were caught smoking, and the principal then had the children write such a school essay that why smoking is harmful. In my opinion, it was a very sensible and natural pedagogical solution. As I recall, the Deputy Chancellor of Justice gave a very severe rebuke to this principal, who in this way violated the fundamental and human rights of these children. In other words, when these fundamental rights fundamentalists are running these things around, we are still in strange interpretations, and we have been. I'm not quite sure if the principal or the teacher started to rebuke the burning father or mother, that you were smoking in the car when you brought the child to school, and there the principal would start to talk about not doing so, that it would harm the child's lungs and health — it would probably fly a complaint to the Chancellor of Justice and the principal would get reprimands, as did this Sastamala's principal and he still got the Sastamala municipal board when he had not taken action against such an uncontrollable principal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u265	Madam President! I myself have never smoked tobacco, and in the car I carry no one has had to suffer or enjoy the extra smoke in the car. That is why this debate is a little foreign to me, but in some speeches there has been a catch on how the police should monitor this, and there has been reference to the fact that the police are missing if the driver talks to the mobile phone or does not wear a seat belt. It is easy for the police to intervene when there is a clear sanction. Now I was wondering, as I listened to this debate in the hall, how the police would act if the police saw a car with smoke like a blacksmith in the workshop and the police stopped this car and found that the driver or some other passenger had a cigarette on the side of his mouth and he was smoking and there was a 10- or 12-year-old child or children in the car. How does a police officer act at 30 degrees below zero? Is the police telling you to stop smoking and get away safe, or do you stop driving and air the car, or how do you do this? If we think that we are enacting a law that the police are supposed to enforce, then I think it is absolutely necessary that it also imposes some kind of sanction, whether it is a violation of the law or someone else who is being directed at the driver or this smoke shark. It is like shouting in the wind that there is a law that prohibits something, but that ban has not been sanctioned in any way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u266	Mr President! Mr Hongisto made a very good speech to me. In the final analysis, I am not opposed to this idea. Surely it has become clear to everyone that of course I find it reprehensible if there are smoking in the car when there are minors, but I just wanted to raise this kind of discussion about what we can do with the legislation. It is not really possible to monitor this in any way. When this problem of motorhomes was raised, it is not a very long way to think that it will not be banned in the apartments, because there may also be facilities that may be quite small and can be burned there. This chain can be extended as far as possible, and then, somewhere, the legislator must consider what is reasonable and appropriate. That is something that the committees will certainly be considering in the context of this law, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u267	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz: From my real school life, I tell you that this is the principal who has intervened in the car of the guardian for smoking just because that child got bullied at school when the smell of tobacco was so strong and it didn’t get any different. The guardian was repentant and sorry, and it never happened after that, but it is quite a big thing if the school people say that we should go together and see if there is any reason to do a child welfare survey on this matter when the child is constantly exposed to smoking on the way to school. In that case of the headmaster of Sastamala, I would say that the wise parliament later corrected that situation and gives the opportunity to show even those nasty photographs or slides of what the snooper’s mouth looks like, in other words, to teach while the punishment for this matter is being suffered. So the wise parliament made wise decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u268	Madam President! Mr Hongisto, I said this could be accompanied by a sanction if the Committee on Social Affairs and Health thinks so. It has been put forward by many experts. If there is no penalty, then the police will probably act in the same way as the biker who does not wear a helmet or the pedestrian who does not use a reflector if such regulations are already in place. It's nothing more than that. Then, to Mr Salmon — let us put an end to this and continue elsewhere: I still do not understand what the damage that you think will result if this kind of regulation is laid down here. I personally see that there are precisely the advantages, such as those of a representative. Semi mentioned it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u271	Mr President! This has been a very confusing conversation. The representatives of the government parties are debating a unanimous government proposal, the content of which they all agree on, namely the protection of the child from passive smoking. To the draft law itself, I would like to say that of course this should be sanctioned and, of course, the police, along with other traffic controls, could intervene in this matter. But, ladies and gentlemen, so that you do not take any more speeches and you can continue your evening in peace: fortunately, smoking is decreasing all the time, especially among young people. So it's understood. And the fact that we don't wake up to this until 2016 is probably a disgrace, but the train has already gone, and everything is fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u272	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u273	Madam President! The aim of the bill is to enable efficient gold-washing and full recovery of the gold-washing site and to increase the conditions for the sustainable exploitation of natural resources. This bill on a small group of traders also seeks to streamline the activity of licensed professions and facilitate regulation, as has been well documented in the Government Programme. The government responds to its cry as far as the tops of the Love River and the Ivalo River. This amendment increases the maximum surface area of the gold leaching claims and the duration of the authorisation. Both are certainly welcome improvements in the 200 to 300 flushes list. In doing so, the predictability of gold leaching will be safeguarded and the culture of the industry will remain. Although this is a really small number of people affected by the reform, its indirect effects are significant in Lapland, especially in relation to tourism. Hopefully, the reform of the law will encourage modern hand miners and washers to continue their long tradition. I also hope that the reform of the law will inspire younger people in the field of gold fever. Madam President! I am also in favour of the bill because the Eldorado of Lapland, that is, the rock of gold, has still not been found.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u274	Madam President! I fully agree with what Mr Hongisto has said here. This is indeed part of the practice of dismantling standards, which I understand has left here by parliamentary groups. Representative Kärnä has been very active in this. It is indeed the case that, unfortunately often, gold-washing is compared to extensive mining activity, which is certainly not. It is therefore important that this regulation should allow gold vassules to continue to wave as a result of small-scale entrepreneurial activity. In the future, gold flushing may also be initiated or continued by a decision of the mining authority even if a complaint has been lodged. This, as Mr Hongisto said, is not a big thing in itself, but it is of great significance locally, and it reflects the fact that, here in Parliament and here in the government, standards are being dismantled and streamlined.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u275	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u276	Värderade fru talman! I enlighet med reservation nummer 2 föreslår jag att det rai lagförslaget förkas. Orsaken är att det inte är motiveraat att slopa det är kyddet på basen av humanitära skäl.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u277	Madam President! I support Mr Blomqvist's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u278	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u279	Mr President! We now have the practice that only an operator approved by the Finnish Environment Agency can carry out water quality inspections in accordance with the environmental permit. Now, however, the government is proposing that this current practice should be abolished and, in fact, any actor could carry out these measurements without the current qualifications. These expert opinions have highlighted the concern of the Finnish Environment Agency that this will lead to our environmental quality being contaminated if these studies are not carried out properly. That is why I am presenting a proposal for a statement in accordance with the objections raised in the report for adoption. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-12-ps-36.u280	Madam President! These are so-called 'normative' measures, which, from the point of view of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, mean that environmental legislation is being undermined across the board. The committee's consultations clearly showed that there is a risk that, if this proposal were implemented, it would jeopardise the measurement of water quality. I support Mr Kari's proposal.
