ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 March 2016. In the debate, Sari Essayah Peter Östman has suggested that the 2nd and 3rd bill be rejected. Ilmari Nurminen, supported by Anneli Kiljunen, has proposed that from 1 to 3. the draft law is rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u2	The second and third legislative proposals will be decided first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u3	Now it's time to decide on the first bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u4	Mr President! I meant to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u5	All right, let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u6	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 March 2016. In the debate, Riitta Myller Satu Hass has suggested that the bill contained in the government proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u7	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 1/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 8 March 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u8	Madam President! I object to Article 4 the text in the
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u9	Madam Speaker! I support Mr Nylund's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u10	Mats Nylund, supported by Peter Östman, has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u11	Mr President! I object to the fact that Article 9 the text in the
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u12	Madam Speaker! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u13	Mats Nylund, supported by Peter Östman, has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u14	Mr President! According to the objection, I submit that Article 14 deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u15	Madam Speaker! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u16	Mats Nylund, supported by Peter Östman, has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u17	Mr President! According to the objection, I submit that Article 22 deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u18	Madam Speaker! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u19	Mats Nylund, supported by Peter Östman, has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u20	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Defence must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Now to the presentations, and then a debate begins. The presentations will be held by Mr Soini, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for 10 minutes, and by Mr Niinistö, Minister for Defence, for 5 minutes. Here you go, Minister Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u21	Madam President! The Parliament has been briefed on the continuation and strengthening of Finland’s participation in education cooperation in the security sector in Iraq. The training mission is part of the activities of the International Alliance against Isil and responds to the French request for assistance. Since spring 2015, Finland has been in training positions for Peshmerga troops with approximately 50 soldiers. The current mandate for Finland’s participation ends in August 2016, with the aim of deciding to extend Finland’s participation by one year until the end of August 2017. At the same time, training activities are to be extended to advisory activities. This would mean that Finland’s total contribution would be 100 soldiers from the beginning of September 2016. The Government is strongly involved in international crisis management activities as part of an active foreign policy. Participation in the Iraqi training mission is an important contribution from Finland. We're training fighters directly to fight against Isil. Finland’s educational activities have received praise and have been considered successful. Minister of Defence Niinistö will explain the objectives and circumstances of the operation in greater detail. The stabilisation of Europe's neighbourhood is important. Our activities in Iraq are wide-ranging, as the report shows. Crisis management is part of this support to stabilise Iraq. By doing so, the government also wants to address the root causes of migration. The United States has appealed to members of the anti-Isil alliance last December to increase their activity. In particular, Finland was asked to continue its training activities. Finland’s participation will thus also strengthen transatlantic cooperation. Mr President! Continue and strengthen Finland’s participation in cooperation in education and training in the security sector At the same time, Iraq has one response to France's request to assist it on the basis of the obligation to provide assistance under the Treaty of Lisbon. We all remember the brutal terrorist attack in Paris in November. Following the attack, France appealed to the Lisbon Treaty for mutual assistance, the so-called 42.7, and asked the EU Member States for military assistance. Finland also received a specific request and we have taken action on this basis. Last year we gave France the flight lessons it needed to carry the equipment. So now we are preparing for the continuation and reinforcement of the Iraqi training mission. It will also consider strengthening the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon and the peace-keeping activities in Mali, concrete actions to meet the needs and needs that France wishes to see. With these measures, we will support and release French resources for action against Isil. This report is a good opportunity for Parliament to assess the importance of the EU's mutual assistance obligation when it is in place for the first time. The question has been raised as to why France specifically resorted to the EU military assistance clause. There is good reason for this. France stated: Madam President! The obligation of mutual assistance between the European Union is an important security policy element. This obligation was enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon and reflects the strong cohesion of the EU countries. It is clear that an armed attack on one Member State means that the other Member States will come to its aid with all the means at their disposal. In assessing the obligation to provide assistance, it is easy to rely on Parliament’s positions. In 2008, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stated in its report on the Treaty of Lisbon that the obligation to provide assistance is a commitment that strengthens Finland's security. With the French appeal, the obligation to provide assistance was now invoked for the first time. On the basis of the facts, we can now push many misconceptions aside and confirm the strong nature of the obligation. Firstly, the obligation to provide assistance is real. When dealing with the Treaty of Lisbon, there were opinions that the entry will remain a dead letter, that it will never be used. So this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u30	Madam President! Finland currently participates in international military crisis management operations with approximately 480 soldiers in a total of 12 operations. At Erbil in northern Iraq, we have 48 peacekeepers in the OR, training troops under the Iraqi Ministry of Peshmerga. Finns train Kurdish troops with the basic skills of a soldier from the skill of an individual soldier to the team level. In addition, battalion headquarters are trained and medical training is provided. The Finnish training department in Kurdistan, Iraq, has now been operating in the region for about seven months and has trained over 200 Kurdish farms. The experience from the field has been encouraging. The Kurdish forces have been actively involved in education and have taken on the training well provided. The Finnish way of education has been praised by those who are trained. Trainees have been particularly interested in medical training, action against mines and improvised explosives, and training in weapons, shooting and fighting. The training shall be carried out in cooperation with the other participating States of the Erbil Training Centre. Cooperation has been particularly close with Great Britain and Norway. Our current national decision to participate will be valid until the end of August this year. Now we are applying for a 12-month extension of the decision to participate. In the future, Finns will not participate in front battles against Isil. Training activities in Northern Iraq will continue in the same way as they have been so far. In addition, it is intended to increase the number of troops in another unit of approximately 50 soldiers, which would focus on the so-called Advise and Assist Council of Kurdish Forces. A form of participation focused on advice would be a continuum and would support our participation so far. The advice will be directed to those forces, including the staffs needed on the front and which cannot be trained in training centres. The mobile advisory groups working with these staffs may collect information on the need for training and the effectiveness of training in training centres and transmit the information received to training centres to support training designers. In addition, the provision of medical training is to be extended. Isil or Isis or Daesh, who now wants to call this barbaric organisation, is an international threat that is also in danger of spreading to Europe. Meeting of 11 February 2002 The Committee of the Regions adopted its opinion The message of the Conference of Defence Ministers against Isil was clear: support for all is needed to defeat Isil. In addition to the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, the ORI mission has become the most important defence capability development mission. Involvement in the operation of large forces is best served by the development of Defence Forces capabilities. Experiences come from the leadership of troops, the functioning of military equipment, logistical arrangements and so on. These experiences can also be brought to domestic training in conscripts and reservists. It is not possible to gain such experience from operations involving only a few peacekeepers. In the case of the OIR operation, the main benefits for the development of the Defence Forces’ domestic capabilities are derived from leadership. The mission will give the troops involved experience of operating under warlike conditions behind the front line. In all their activities, the team has to consider the possibility of being attacked. This will develop the skills of both the staff employed and the reserve managers to lead their own team. Participation also develops Defence Forces expertise in the commanding of troops in an alliance operation, where no international organisation is in charge of the operation. This has already shown us that action requires more detailed planning and preparation among the capitals. Mr President! Education exports and the development of the target area's own military capabilities have become an important form of military crisis management. The deployment of small training departments that train and assist security forces in the country of destination is also a cost-effective way of supporting target countries rather than sending large troops. Similar activities are currently under way, particularly on the African continent. Participation in the training and advice activities of the Iraqi security forces will give Finland experience in similar tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u31	Let me now turn to the group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u32	Mr President! Finland is continuing and strengthening its participation in the training mission in Erbil, Northern Iraq. This is a crisis management operation to strengthen Iraq's ability to act against Isil. Increasing participation is a concrete response from Finland to the French request for assistance to EU Member States against terrorism. The same solution is intended to respond to the request made by the United States for additional support in the fight against terrorism and Isil. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris, France made a request for assistance at the Ministerial meeting on 17 November, calling for the Lisbon Treaty's mutual assistance clause. The request was, you may say, immediately supported by the Member States' political support and the assurance of solidarity. Mr President! This is the first time that the mutual assistance clause has been applied in practice. As a precedent, we can see that the process has started smoothly, particularly in view of the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon does not take a position on how to coordinate the request for assistance. We already know that the request for support has broadened and strengthened the Member States' understanding of the application of the mutual assistance clause. However, it is still too early to assess how the application of the clause will have a wider impact on the development of a common EU security and defence policy or defence dimension. Article 42 directly binds the Member States and underlines their solidarity with each other. However, there is a need for coordination at Union level which is sensible for the effectiveness of joint action. It may be justified to leave room for application as to who, in each situation, bears responsibility for coordination and the management of joint action. Most of the time, the country that asked for help will be that coordinator. In the opinion of the Centre's parliamentary group, nothing prevents the Union, if it so wishes, from taking its own joint decisions to respond jointly to the request for assistance. As stated in the report, Finland has consistently emphasised the political and fundamental importance of the aid clause, both in the context of and after the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon. Finland takes the obligation to provide assistance seriously. We are prepared to provide assistance to other Member States if necessary, and we also expect to receive assistance from other Member States if necessary in the event of an obligation. From this point of view, too, the French initiative is important and it is good that we have experience of applying the clause. Solidarity between EU countries, Mr President, is being tested in many ways at this time. The government is currently assessing what other measures we are providing to France consist of. The Central Parliamentary Group believes that it would be a natural way to strengthen our well-functioning crisis management operation in Lebanon. This could free the French troops from other tasks. These operations also give our own troops valuable field experience. The implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon is also substantially linked to ongoing legislative projects designed to enable Finland to provide and receive international assistance in operations other than crisis management. The Central Parliamentary Group considers it important that the legislative locks should be lifted with due consideration so that Finland has the appropriate decision-making capacity to provide and receive assistance. Even in the reforms, Mr President, it is necessary to keep sufficient patience and rationality in mind and to remember the long line of Finland's foreign and security policy. A fundamental debate on these issues should take place in April-May when legislative proposals arrive in Parliament. Mr President! Finland has provided training support to the Iraqi Kurdistan security forces for more than six months with the strength of some 50 military trainers. We also have experience of training support and advice in many other crisis management operations. At the time of the last deployment decision, Parliament will carry out an in-depth assessment of the security situation, risks and significance of the mission. The Centre considers it important that Parliament carefully examines up-to-date information on the contents of the mandate and the security of the mission. The impact on our internal safety should also be assessed. The Erbil operation also carries risks, needs to be identified and recognised. Mr President! The extremely brutal behaviour of Isil in Syria and Iraq and its active recruitment and incitement to terrorist attacks across Europe, the Middle East and Africa require extensive cooperation from the international community. Isil continues to dominate large areas of Iraq and Syria, and the spread of the organisation, particularly in Libya, must be seen as a real threat. As the terrorist attacks in Paris, for example, showed in a terrible way, there is a threat Movements like Isil, including our security and the security of our neighbourhood. The UN Security Council has also made a request for assistance against Isil's activities. Finland too, within its own resources and capabilities, should take responsibility in the fight against terrorism. Mr President! The Central Parliamentary Group considers it in Finland's interest to respond to requests for assistance and to continue cooperation in education and training in Iraq, provided that security issues are properly resolved in both the Iraqi and domestic areas of our forces. Safety is a matter of our heart.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u35	Mr President! Finland decided to participate in the US leadership For an anti-Isil operation last March. The mission was established following the UN Security Council’s 2014 appeal involving more than 60 countries, including the Nordic countries and EU Member States. Its objective is to eradicate Isil's activities in Iraq and Syria. Finland sent in less than 50 soldiers to train the North Iraqi armed forces, the so-called Peshmerga forces. The first Finns arrived at the educational base at the end of July 2015. The term of office of the crisis management operation is defined as one year until the end of August 2016. There has been very positive feedback from the training. Finland has invested, among other things, in medical and lifesaving emergency care training. Mr President! The Government's report under discussion explains Finland's response to France's request for assistance in November on the fight against terrorism. France's request is based on the Lisbon Treaty assistance clause, but each Member State responds to it by its own national measures. As a result, Finland proposes to extend the support to the security forces in Northern Iraq by 50 soldiers from September 2016 for a period of one year. At the same time, extending the crisis management operation would respond to the US request for additional support for the Counter-Terrorism Coalition. The soldiers to be sent would participate in the advisory work of the headquarters of the Kurdistan security forces. The Group of the Finnish People's Party believes that it is important to contribute to the fight against terrorism and the eradication of Isil. It is natural to respond to a request for assistance by strengthening an existing crisis management operation. Well, why is it worthwhile to participate in the operation? Why is that justified? The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group believes that it is in Finland's national interest to strengthen and continue to participate in the Iraqi mission. Firstly, participation will provide the capacity to develop our own national defence: our soldiers will gain valuable experience in the management, maintenance and operation of troops and in military cooperation. It is important that the report's committee examines the security issues of the sending forces in a thorough manner, as they now move closer to the front line. This applies, among other things, to staff who cannot be taken to training centres. Mr President! It is significant that the EU aid clause is now being invoked for the first time. All Member States have responded to the French request for assistance, most of them, like Finland, either expanding or continuing their military crisis management efforts. The People's Party of Finland believes that the application of the aid clause and the unanimous political support given to it by the Member States will strengthen the EU as a security community. It is in Finland’s interest that the EU’s defence dimension should be strengthened. One day, Finland may have to invoke the same clause. The government's proposal in April to provide and receive international assistance would also enable military assistance in the future. Mr President! Responding to a request for assistance is also likely to reduce the number of asylum seekers seeking asylum in Europe from Iraq. If the situation in Northern Iraq is calmed down by the operation and the conditions for Isil to operate are weakened, it will help to stabilise the situation in Iraq and thus curb emigration. We want to share our international responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u37	Mr President! The past year has been a heavy one in Europe. Insecurity and insecurity have increased at an accelerated rate. When the fire comes next door, the smoke will catch up with us. The Syrian civil war and its luring into neighbouring areas continues to kill more people and destroy human fates and societies, causing hopelessness and radicalisation. In Europe, this is reflected in an historic number of refugees and in devastating terrorist attacks. Isil, which has been strengthened in the area for a couple of years, is one of the biggest security threats of our time. During the year, Isil's terrorists struck Paris twice. The attacks hit the heart of Europe, and the power is felt in all of us in Europe. In November, France made a historic decision and asked the EU to activate the mutual assistance obligation. The defence ministers unanimously accepted the request for assistance, and the security box came to life on paper. Finland has a global and European responsibility. The President of the Republic and the Government's Committee on Foreign and Security Policy quickly stated that Finland will respond to France's request for assistance through political and concrete measures. For the time being, our legislation prevents military assistance abroad, which is why military crisis management is now being selected in response to Finland. Since September 2015, Finland has participated in training cooperation in the security sector in Iraq in Erbil, Northern Iraq. This operation is now to be extended and strengthened. At the same time, we respond to the request made by the United States in December for additional aid. To the work of the Anti-Isil Alliance. The parliamentary group of the Coalition Party considers the continuation of the multinational operation to be highly justified. The report received by the Parliament states that stopping Isil's progress and disbanding the organization requires long-term action and a wide range of means. As a result of the alliance, Isil has lost areas in Iraq and its performance has deteriorated. Now, if ever, we have to continue our work. Finland's reputation in Iraq is good, and the training and training provided by Finns have received good feedback from the Kurdistan Peshmerga Corps. According to the report, there is no need to increase the training resources, but Finland should also participate in the advisory activities of the mission. This would help to gather information on training needs and assess the effectiveness of the training provided. According to the report, participation also provides valuable experiences for our national performance in a demanding advisory role. The activation of security guarantees was an important precedent and a major step towards a common EU security and defence policy. As a non-military country for Finland, it is extremely important that the article is not just a letter of death on paper. If Finland were under attack, military or otherwise, we too would like a strong statement of support from other countries. However, it should be borne in mind that the mutual assistance clause does not provide the same protection as Article 5 of NATO. The EU's security is mainly symbolic and political, NATO's hard and concrete. Mr President! Erbil's operation also has a migration dimension. Finland’s interest is to stabilise the security situation in a country from which more asylum seekers arrive in Finland than anywhere else. The training of the Peshmerga troops is a suitable way for Finland to contribute to the weakening of Isil and thus to the stabilisation of the region. Finland also supports Iraq through development cooperation and directs a considerable amount of humanitarian aid to the region. The primary goal must be that no one has to leave their home. Unfortunately, there are also a large number of people leaving Iraq who are not in acute distress. They have the right to move as immigrants elsewhere, but it must take place through legal channels. Finland and Europe are not obliged to accept everyone. Voluntary returns work, but Finland must obtain an agreement with Iraq, which also covers so-called compulsory returns. We will help and support Iraq according to our capabilities, but Iraq must also shoulder its responsibilities. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party encourages the Minister to: Soins working hard to make a viable return deal. Crisis management is not free. We need more money for this operation. However, this is an important choice of foreign and security policy, which shows responsibility and thus contributes to our security. In today’s world, responsibility is shared, and Finland’s security is sometimes defended far from our geographical borders.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u38	Madam President! In line with Albert Einstein’s words, ‘the world is a dangerous place to live, not because of evil people, but because of people who do not do so.’ On the basis of this idea, it is also useful to review this report on the continuation and strengthening of Finland's participation in security sector education cooperation in Iraq. It is important that Finland undertakes to take responsibility for promoting international peace and stability. Comprehensive participation in international crisis management is an integral part of Finland’s foreign, security and defence policy. Participation in education and training cooperation in Iraq is Finland's response to France's request for assistance following the unfortunate terrorist attacks in Paris in November. Participation in education and counselling activities is a suitable solution for Finland, which can be influenced there at the source of the problems. By participating in the Iraqi mission, Finland can also take responsibility as a member of the UN in the fight against terrorism. The Treaty of Lisbon's assistance clause is very important both politically and in principle. Solidarity between EU countries is being weighed, now that the clause was first invoked. The starting point for the Social Democrats is that every country should continue to be able to consider forms of aid from its own perspective and that aid should be based on bilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u41	Mr President! June 2014 echoed to the world Isis' call for the formation of an Islamic caliphate in the Syrian and Iraqi territories. Breaking the State’s Borders Isis caused a strong local and international response, particularly as a result of brutal human rights crimes. From the outset, the Kurdish regions of northern Iraq formed a central part of the ISIS front. One year ago, the Parliament approved Finland's participation in the training of the Kurdish peshmerga troops. The mission was and is dangerous. At that time, we paid particular attention to the protection of the troops and the security of the mission. It is now appropriate to repeat the same reservations. Mr President! A lot has happened in the year. The Great Powers Russia and the United States are both involved in the Syrian military and peace talks. From these negotiations, we hope for rapid results in order to protect the civilian population. The terrorist attacks in Paris in November 2015 have also brought the threat of ISIS to Europe. France submitted a request for assistance to EU Member States in accordance with clause 42.7 of the Lisbon Treaty on Mutual Assistance. The Greens believe it is right that Finland should contribute positively to this French request for assistance. The clause on mutual assistance in the Treaty of Lisbon has now been invoked for the first time. This is part of building European security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u42	Mr President! The large number of refugees has demonstrated in an exceptionally concrete way what the peace movement and development organisations have been talking about for decades: Finland does not live in isolation. The tense situation in the Middle East, North Africa and the sub-Saharan region is also visible here in everyday life. Finland has an important role and responsibility to promote human rights, peace and democracy, including beyond its borders. However, it is easier to pronounce beautiful principles out loud than consistently to use foreign policy as a basis. The war in Iraq and Syria is a sad example of how giving priority to territorial power struggles and economic interests will lead to longer and more complex conflicts. In the Government report, the extension of Finland's participation is justified by the Lisbon Treaty's mutual assistance clause. This responds both to the request made by France and to the request made by the United States for additional aid in the fight against Daesh. The Left Alliance sees Finland's strengths in peace-keeping in UN operations, mediation and civilian crisis management, and we stress that each country must have the right to decide on the form of support to be given. Instead of military assistance, we want Finland to be involved in international anti-terrorism cooperation, particularly in the field of police and crime prevention. When we decided to participate in the training mission in Iraq, we stressed the need for wisdom in Afghanistan's experience. Finnish trainers should not participate in combat tasks. Fighting Iraq has now focused on the immediate vicinity of the front line. There the level of risk varies from moderate to high and the greatest risk is shooting and indirect fire. The report states that the expansion of the training mission means that the Finnish department will continue to support the Kurdistan security forces at brigade and battalion level outside the current training area but behind the front line. I would now like to ask the ministers what this means in practice in terms of the level and nature of this operation. Is it possible that further support will be provided in the combat area? Mr President! The training of Iraqi Peshmerga forces in Kurdistan has been a way for Finland to support local troops who are fighting Daesh. Unfortunately, this principle has not been applied consistently. The Syrian Kurdish defence units have fought all other ground troops more successfully against Daesh. They have released a number of strategically important cities, villages and service routes under Daesh. The United States and Russia have supported the YPG forces with air strikes. Instead, NATO Turkey is engaged in a war against the Syrian Kurdish autonomous democracy project by supporting the Salafi-jihadist organisations in Syria and by firing on the Kurdish forces on the Syrian side. The situation within Turkey has also deteriorated significantly. The peace process between Turkey and the Kurds was interrupted in July and the government has imposed curfews in the south-east of the country. Hundreds of Kurds have been killed, and even tens of thousands of families have had to leave their homes. Journalists, political decision-makers and university researchers have been questioned and imprisoned. Mr President! In addition to mediation and civilian crisis management, a small country such as Finland can contribute to stability and human rights in the Middle East by being consistent with its foreign policy. Finland has exported weapons to both Saudi Arabia and Turkey. How is it possible that Turkish military policy in the country's own Kurdish regions and Syria, as well as the deterioration of the human rights situation in the country, have had no impact on Finland's relations with Turkey? The least that Finland and the EU need to do immediately is to call on Turkey to put an end to military action in exchange for up to EUR 6 billion in financial aid. Otherwise, we will be financing instability in the Middle East, even if, at the same time, we are trying to support peace building through training activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u43	Värderade Talman! Svenska riksdagsgruppen anser det är bra och solidariskt att Finland fortsätter och stärker sitt deltagande i säkerhetsektorns utbildningsamarbete i Erbil i norra Iraq. Det auri som en del av Finlands svar på Frankrickes begäran om bistånd med stöd av EU:s klausul om ömsesidigt bistånd. Etter de bestialiska terrordåden i november i fjol i Paris har Frankrike som phonet med stöd av Lisbonfördragets artikel 42 stänt de övriga medlemsländerna en hjälpbegäran i kampen mot terrorismmen. Till den raus delen har Lisbonfördraget inte testats tidigare, och Finland svarade ganska snabbt att den nu actuella ansvarshöjningen i Erbil ska ses som ett av våra jätt att bidra.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u44	Mr President! The terrorist attacks in Paris last autumn reminded us in a shocking way of what the terrorist organisation Isil is trying to achieve and what it is capable of. Spreading fear and death everywhere is the goal of a terrorist organisation that calls itself an Islamic state. Although the attacks in Europe and the threat there have attracted great attention in Finland, we must remember where Isil is spreading the most destruction: large areas of Syria and Iraq are still in possession of them despite an international operation. At the same time, the organisation has increased its influence in Libya and has supporters throughout the Middle East, North Africa and also Europe. Christian Democratic Parliament Group supports Finland's participation For an anti-Isil operation. It is good that we are united in the fight against terrorism. The large increase in the number of Iraqi asylum seekers seen last autumn, in particular, reflects the fact that even faraway wars and unrest seem to affect Finland as well. We cannot put our heads in the sand and assume that what is happening in the world is not touching us. Finland must be ready to contribute to a safer and more stable future. The Government's report highlights France's request for assistance in response to the terrorist attacks in Paris. The Lisbon Treaty assistance clause is important for our country. Finland must provide assistance to other Member States on request, because we may also need help at times. The serious attitude of European countries towards the obligation to provide assistance will also improve our own security. Further Finnish involvement and increasing the strength of the mission in Iraq is a good way to respond to the French request for assistance. However, the content of the Treaty of Lisbon should not be treated unrealisticly. The aid clause does not mean that we have security guarantees against all external threats. Taking care of our own credible defence capability and increasing military cooperation with our partner countries is as important as ever. Mr President! The decision involves risks that need to be openly discussed. Finnish soldiers operate a few ten kilometres from the front line, and suicide attacks are possible outside training bases. Isil has threatened all the countries fighting it with terrorist attacks. People have left Finland to fight in the ranks of a terrorist organisation. The fighters have also returned, and there are individual persons suspected of participating in battles and war crimes in Iraq among asylum seekers who have arrived in Finland. Threats must not affect our decision-making. However, threats must be taken into account and prepared, particularly by strengthening the capacity of our country's internal security. Participation in training cooperation in the security sector and reinforcement of the mission in Iraq bring additional costs, although much can be covered under existing appropriations. However, taking part in the mission will increase our skills and help us develop our own defence capabilities, and we believe that the costs are small in proportion to the benefits. In addition to military action, development and humanitarian aid are needed in the region. The areas taken from Isil are facing a challenge of reconstruction and resettlement. Our parliamentary group encourages us to explore the possibilities for an EU civilian crisis management operation in Iraq. The need for readmission agreements for asylum seekers, both bilaterally and at EU level, should also be raised in these discussions. Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group supports the fight against terrorism and the continuation and strengthening of Finland's participation in Iraq.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u45	That is where we heard the group speeches and now we have the opportunity for ministers to comment on them first. Prime Minister Sipilä, please, for five minutes, and then two other ministers, and then we will begin the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u46	Madam President! Thank you to the group speakers for a very monotonous message. We have already stated in the Government Programme that the European Union is an important security community for Finland. This is also why Finland is in favour of strengthening the EU's common security and defence policy. In the Government Programme, we also called for the Union to have common means to combat terrorism, international crime and hybrid threats. We noted that the European Union's foreign policy coherence is also central to its international influence. In the opening debate of the Parliament, I said: "We certainly do not live in a birdhouse anymore. We need to be better awake and make an even more active foreign policy." These two issues are now at stake when we are planning to continue and strengthen Finland's participation in security sector education cooperation in Erbil, Northern Iraq. On the one hand, we are talking about Finland's active foreign policy in our changing operating environment. We must be involved in dealing with the causes and consequences of the issues that affect us. On the other hand, it is a European responsibility and a European security community. We are not doing our foreign and security policy alone or in a vacuum. The terrorist attacks in Paris on 13 November last year changed Europe in many ways. They were also an attack on our democratic and open societies. It was very significant that the EU countries responded quickly to France's request for assistance as one of the first in Finland. A common response to the French request for assistance showed that there is a spirit of cooperation in Europe in a tight place. This spirit built over the decades is important for us to cherish in these very times. The appeal by France to the Treaty of Lisbon clause for mutual assistance was an important reminder that that clause actually works. This is important for Finland. On the one hand, it means that Finland is committed to providing assistance to other EU countries if we are asked to do so. On the other hand, it means that we can expect help if we ask other EU countries to do so. It is important for us to internalise that the aid clause can also be invoked in the future. That is also why it is important that we are currently updating our legislation in such a way that it is possible to provide and receive assistance. The terrorist organization Isil was behind the terrorist attacks in Paris. It was therefore natural that the French request for assistance was directed in many respects precisely against Isil. It is natural for us as Finland to respond to this request from France by continuing our presence in Erbil, Northern Iraq, where we are already present. At the same time, we are also able to respond to the US request in December 2015 for additional support for Isil's activities. The continuation and reinforcement of the Erbil mission is a matter of Finland's international responsibility. In addition to our involvement in crisis management, we are also giving this region significant humanitarian and development aid. We announced our more recent contributions to the conference on Syria in London at the beginning of February.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u47	Then, Foreign Minister Soini, please. Is that enough for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u48	Madam President! A few observations and answers to questions. What, then, is at issue when it comes to training tasks and counseling tasks? When it comes to training tasks, the Finnish department provides training for the Kurdistan peshmerga fighters at the Erbil training centre from the basic skills of the soldier to the team level and trains the battalion staff. Counselling tasks: The Finnish department would support the Brigade and Battalion level headquarters of the Kurdistan security forces, and the advisory work takes place partly outside the territory of Northern Iraq and Kurdistan, but still behind the front lines. Where is Finland when it is here? In addition to Finland, France, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Norway, Denmark, the United States, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Hungary, Australia, New Zealand and Sweden participate in the training and advisory activities of this mission. So we're in the right reference group. Then, Madam President, a little about this alliance against Isil, what it is and what it is doing. So this is going to come a little further. This is in itself based on a resolution adopted by the UN Security Council in August 2014. It called on UN Member States to take action against Isil. This action therefore has the approval of the UN. And in September 2014, countries launched international cooperation to coordinate and enhance the fight against Isil. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris, the Security Council also adopted a resolution aimed at strengthening the fight against terrorism. This consortium includes more than 60 countries, all EU countries and all Nordic countries. Finland will also participate in this. Madam President! A few contributions then raised the question of why the mutual assistance clause and not the solidarity clause were invoked. In my view, France resorted to the aid clause because it wanted assistance outside the country — France said it was at war — and the solidarity clause aimed at supporting its internal capabilities as a result of the terrorist attack. In the context of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the aid clause was interpreted as military support for the Member State which activated the clause. Now, threats have multiplied or varied and the same understanding of possible forms of assistance. The French decision shows that the activation is ultimately based on a case-by-case approach, which also takes into account political and military considerations. In this way, it can be concluded that which is being relied on depends on the situation. Each crisis situation and national needs will be assessed separately. Madam President! Finally, a little about the decision-making process and its speed. In other words, SG-UTVA dealt with this request from France on 11 December and stated that Finland would offer to continue and extend its participation in training operations in Northern Iraq, to expand its participation in UNIFIL and then to explore the possibilities after the so-called Malian Operation Hour. Then, in December, Finland also handed over 24 hours of air traffic to France from the Finnish quota in the joint SAC air carrier pool. So the procedure started immediately. You can't say we're still on the move. We've been on the move since the beginning. Maybe this is enough at this point. I believe there will be a great deal of other questions so that we can return to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u49	Madam President! Finland continues its active participation in international crisis management, it is the policy of this government. The economic situation is difficult, but Finland assumes its responsibilities, you can say, in a larger way, by continuing with this ORI mission and extending its participation. At the same time, we respond positively to the French request for assistance, as did the US request, as the Prime Minister said earlier. Mr President! Just a few words about the use of force. So Finns do not take part in battles but train and give advice. Finns must use force only for self-defense and emergency protection. The security situation in Iraq varies. In Kurdistan, Northern Iraq, where Finnish trainers are, the security situation is twofold: the threat level on the front line varies from moderate to high, and the population behind the front line is living a relatively normal life. However, there is always the danger of terrorist attacks, for example, there has been and still is in the Afghanistan operation. Special attention will be paid to the safety of Finnish troops. The movement outside the bases is carried out by armoured vehicles, and our soldiers' personal equipment is the best available. The use of chemical combatants has also been taken into account, but it is not disputed that there is always a danger. Mr President! Thank you for your constructive group contributions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u50	I would now ask those Members who wish to take part in the debate to stand up and reserve a minute's speaking time by pressing the V button. And as usual, I will first take these people who have spoken in groups and then go to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u51	Mr President! It was noteworthy and good to hear that there is support for this project across the boundaries of the party field. It is important that we have a common vision of the main issues. Mr President! An interesting question arises here in the summer if Britain decides to leave the European Union, which I do not hope for. It can also bring to the debate the development of a common foreign and security policy for the European Union in a whole new round, but hopefully it will not come to that because of Britain's resignation. Otherwise, the debate should continue. Mr President! Let me ask you something. In this regard, Minister Soini raised the question of whether to go to Lebanon, whether to strengthen its participation — already there — in relation to the participation of Mali. In my own speech I took a stand on behalf of Lebanon. It would seem to be a natural option: we already have strong, large participation and good competence there, and the skills of Finns are strongly trusted there. What is the idea now of moving forward on this matter? How soon will the choice be made and what criteria will be used?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u52	Let us have one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u53	Mr President! In addition to this, I would like to say that our small country will participate in 11 crisis management operations in addition to the North Iraq operation: the Middle East, Afghanistan, the Balkans and Africa. I think it is very important that this should be done. It is also important to note from the military's defence that they can use the so-called self-defence method, that is, the use of force for the very self-defence, otherwise it is not appropriate. I would also like to ask when I have studied this forthcoming Government draft law: there would also be the possibility of providing military assistance abroad, and the law would strengthen Finland's position as a security policy actor and allow for the full application of the mutual assistance clause. That if something could be said about this, is this the case that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u54	Madam President! The safety of Finnish trainers is automatically something that will not be compromised under any circumstances, and now, with participation in advisory activities, the activity will become more mobile, so the equipment and mode of operation will have to respond to the new situation. The Minister of Defence in his own speech already paged this topic, but I would also like to make sure that an honest risk assessment has been carried out and that the new situation in self-protection has been taken into account. Then there's the other thing about the rules of force. The countries participating in training do not have common rules for the use of force, but individual countries give their troops their own rules for the use of force. Has this caused any problems in the past year? The third question relates to foreign fighters. Several dozen people have left Finland to fight against Isil’s ranks, which in itself is incomprehensible, and a few ten have returned to Finland. It is also incomprehensible that people who go from Finland voluntarily to fight in the Isil ranks can at all
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u55	Madam President! I am pleased that there is a consensus on the importance of international crisis management, that is understood for all parties. It is great that the European Union is also seen as such a security community. Perhaps it can be said that where the EU, there the solution, and that line is probably good to continue. Now this kind of concrete question for this, what I was thinking a little bit in that speech: since the budget and frameworks have not provided for these amounts of funding as before, so is the idea then, when these have already been promised this and the few other operations, that is coming now immediately at the same time then the additional budget, because those euro amounts when you see, are currently on both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs side, so there is no funding for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u56	Mr President! In the absence of horns and teeth, I would also have thanked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for a very constructive way of thinking in relation to what can now be made out of the EU in this situation and how this EU cooperation in security and foreign policy can be continued. In my opinion, Finland’s big line here remains. When we are not a member of the military alliance, we must look for the forms of cooperation that can be found, and this French request for help has provided one way to do so. However, I would perhaps have questioned whether, in all circumstances, this Article 42.7 is correct. We should perhaps also consider that if there is another Member State that may sometimes need help and use this Article 222 — and then the EU Council must be mobilised and the Commission must be mobilised — then how will it proceed? I think it would be good if this debate were also taken forward, and now we are preparing for these various forms of request for assistance that can also come from the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u57	Mr President! All the speeches here stressed the importance of fighting Daesh and tackling the causes of migration, and I will therefore return to this role of Turkey. I myself had the opportunity to visit South-East Turkey about three weeks ago, and I saw for myself how much this domestic political situation in Turkey has deteriorated. In the south-east, there is practically a civil war going on, and in addition to that, Turkey has also been guilty of these acts of war on the side of Northern Syria, so I would like to ask again: what is Finland going to do in the EU to get Turkey to stop its actions? I do not think there is any justification for giving support to a country that, through its own actions, increases refugees and increases instability in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u58	Mr President! This Daesh is certainly not just a terrorist organisation, it is an organisation that is demonstrably capable of the atrocities and atrocities that have rarely been seen. This fact must also make this training operation a little different in a sense. Daesh is also able to plan and execute both conventional and asymmetric operations, attacks. Its management structures are well developed and its troops are well trained. How does the government or one of the ministers assess the risks involved in this operation — a little as Mr Pelkonen has just called for the same — and in what way have these participating Finns been trained and trained specifically for this mission, this task, this challenging terrain?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u59	Madam President! From this debate it can be seen that you, ladies and gentlemen, are getting strong support for this report and for the proposal to strengthen the mission in Iraq. This report and a number of group statements covered the issue of readmission agreements for these asylum seekers, of which a large proportion has indeed come to Finland. I would now like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: What is the situation in these bilateral negotiations with Iraq on the conclusion of a readmission agreement? Under whose responsibility, under whose authority are these negotiations conducted? Is there any hope that the European Union will be active at European level in obtaining a readmission agreement? I also ask: is the debate on development cooperation and humanitarian aid with Iraq linked to this readmission agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u60	Mr President! Here it is exceptionally important to see through Parliament that there is a solid consensus. I will say four brief points that must be borne in mind now and tomorrow. The first is that, although this is a comprehensive security operation, the maintenance of military capability is also of paramount importance in terms of comprehensive security. The second is that Finland must be an exceptionally competent country in matters of military and civilian crisis management throughout the ages. The third is that active mediation is most naturally one of the basic features of Finnish foreign policy. The fourth is that we must not forget development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u62	Mr President! This operation in Northern Iraq is very important, but what is even more important is the debate that is now taking place here on the background of this and its links. I well remember some years ago when the President of the Republic, among other things, reminded me of this, was still laughing at the EU's foreign and security policy: it is nothing and does not give any kind of security. Well, the bell is ringing a bit in a different tone at the moment when it is seen that it has relevance and that the European Union also has the potential to help in security policy. The European Union does not have an army, but its Member States do. As a non-NATO country for Finland, this is an extremely important process that is now under way, so that we can strengthen the Finnish security policy base through this. It will also strengthen our transatlantic relationship. I ask the ministers: how do you think we should develop the European Union's foreign and security policy from now on? We're working on a global strategy there, aren't we?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u63	Mr President! It is particularly positive that such broad support, practically 100%, has now been allocated to this Erbil operation in this debate. Partly because of the atrocities of Isis, which have awakened everyone to see that it cannot at least be this life here in the world. When this operation Erbil was launched at the time, security spoke very strongly. That's why he was talking about it. Now that it is an extension and this role of adviser is added, this security is an even more pressing challenge than it was when it started. Why don't we ask him for his personal protection and so on? I would like to ask Mr. Minister of Defence: How do the rules governing the use of force by Finnish soldiers differ from those of other soldiers there? Are there any fundamental differences?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u64	Madam President! As has been said earlier, it is important that this Parliament has a common strong will for Finland to participate in international crisis management work. Minister of Defence Niinistö mentioned in his own speech that participation serves to develop our military capabilities. A fine comment, especially since last season the Minister for Defence, the chairman of the then Committee on Defence, was much less sensitive to this international crisis management. It is also gratifying that the Foreign Minister: The Soini sees the European Union as a institution that stabilises security, as a Union. Where the EU, there may also be opportunities. I ask the ministers: how will the level of crisis management appropriations be secured in the coming years? Mr Paatero has already referred to this. Should Parliament be given a broader explanation of Finland's future participation in crisis management work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u65	Madam President! It's important that we all work together against Daesh. It's a cruel, hostile terrorist organization. That is why, as early as last season, the Left supported the training of these peshmerga troops, mainly the Kurds. In both Northern Iraq and North Syria, the Kurds are the strongest counterforce against Daesh. But at the same time we must see that the EU is negotiating with Turkey. Turkey, which is practically in the civil war, is bombing, killing Kurds, mocking human rights and also bombing outside its borders in Syria the Kurds who are fighting Daesh. Now I would ask Foreign Minister Soin: What is the Finnish message to Turkey, and what is the EU's message to Turkey? How can the EU act in this situation at the same time as negotiations on financing with Turkey, so that Turkey does not trample on human rights and bomb the Kurds?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u66	Mr President! I would like to thank all the ministers for their presentations, which were very clear and thorough in that this is a good and well-founded operation. This was an excellent way of providing assistance to France, releasing its resources or allowing them to re-direct their resources in the fight against terrorism. This gives substance to the EU's foreign and security policy, which is also in Finland's national interest, as the Foreign Minister said. The obligation to provide assistance, that it really means something, is welcome for us. And if this has been unclear to anyone, then the Finns of Peru have always supported forms of cooperation in the EU that are in our national interest. There is nothing new about this and that will continue to be the case. This does not make the EU a federal state, but centralises power. This is therefore an operation in our national interest, especially as it still addresses these root causes of very large-scale migration at the moment and helps the wider public calm.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u67	Mr President! The role of Finland is certainly well suited for participation in training and advice in Iraq, but since this operation also carries exceptional risks, as has been pointed out in several speeches, I too would like to hear a little more detail about how the self-protection of Finnish troops has been organised and, as Mrs Kääriäinen has pointed out, whether these provisions on the use of force and self-protection differ from those of other international forces and, if they do not, whether they cause any problem in that operation. The second question to which I would like to receive some kind of answer is that at what stage is the government's assessment of the other measures that we will be giving France in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u68	Madam President! Indeed, Finland fits in with this training assignment and also with the advisory role in Erbil. But as many people here have raised their concerns about the fact that there are very exceptional safety and risk assessments in that operation, so, for my part, I would like to ask not only the differences that Finnish soldiers in crisis management missions may have with those in other countries, but, above all, whether there is something that, for example, may be a greater risk for Finns to act in that area. Is there something in these force regulations that can put a Finnish soldier at great risk in some situation? I would have liked to have heard about the way in which these people who go to crisis management missions will be trained in these exceptional circumstances, because, as has been said here, we really do not have any in that area.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u69	Mr President! The European Union is a security community, and it is a great thing for us today's debate that it is now being understood in the same way. France did a great service not only to the Union but also to Finland when it introduced the Treaty clauses. This has shown once and for all that the countries of the Union care about each other and are also prepared to help each other. I would like to thank Minister Soini for his excellent clarity and fine performance. I would even go so far as to say that this was, Minister Soini, your best parliamentary speech, it is difficult to take anything away from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u70	Madam President! It is a good thing that we have a consensus on this participation in the operation. These measures against Isis, Isil, Daesh — however we now want to call them — are indeed needed. I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense a few questions. First of all, these risks: I'm not going to repeat them anymore, but they do exist. If you can answer them when you have previously been asked. But I'd ask for the Defence Forces, too. Of course, it's a priority. The Defence Forces have to look after their own defence capabilities. What added value does this operation bring us in terms of national defence capacity? Finally, I would also like to ask what exactly our forces will be doing there in terms of training tasks, and what is the ratio between the participating forces, the number of professional soldiers and the number of reservists involved in this operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u71	Madam President! The Iraqi training mission is an important issue for stabilising the region. Daesh terrorizes the region but is an international threat to the world as a whole and also to Finland. Over 60 years, more than 40,000 Finns have participated in various peacekeeping and crisis management missions. There has been talk of self-security, it is important, but it can always happen the worst. I would like to thank you, Minister of Defence Niinistö, for now granting these veterans a veteran status. The STM also prepares for the completion of the crisis management accident law. This should be unblemished and there should be certainty that even at the worst, treatment is also being filled with psychosomatic symptoms. I would ask Minister of Defence Niinistö: with what timetable are we going to have this crisis-management veteran programme completed and finished so that the guarantee is that we will take care of these women and men, but also their families, at the worst?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u72	Mr President! As regards the Treaty of Lisbon, the form and meaning of mutual assistance, it must continue to be a genuine bilateral process and, for example, Finland has a sovereign right to decide where it is going to go. And as far as national legislation is concerned, the left-wing group is, of course, opposed to the fact that the legislation is being modified so that it allows Finnish soldiers to be sent abroad to use military force. Then two things related to risk management in Finland and the target area. During the last round of proceedings, the protection police pointed out that participation and the profiling of Finland will lead to a significant rise in the level of threat in Finland. And another question for the Minister of Defence: when it is mentioned here that in A&A operations, the Finnish Department would support the Brigade and Battalion-level staff of the Kurdistan security forces in the north of Iraq, does this bring about a change in the current situation and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u73	Mr President! Next Sunday there will be celebrations of the end of the Winter War all over the country. Finland's independence was secured even though the losses were severe. Humble thanks to the veterans of our wars. As Foreign Minister Soini said, the EU's obligation to provide assistance will increase Finland's security. International responsibility and improvement came up in a speech by a number of group speakers, as did the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister. However, I would like to ask the ministers: if Finland were under threat, would the EU's NATO countries as much help as the non-NATO countries? And another question: Sweden is apparently moving back to at least a partial restoration of general military service. Fortunately, Finland has kept its arms obligations all along. Is there any information on which direction Sweden is developing its foreign and security policy? Finland has worked extensively with Swedes in international operations. Shall we continue along the same lines in Sweden?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u74	Madam President! As a matter of fact, it's a representative. Savola took into account an important point that this has also been justified by the fact that this is developing and that we are also learning there. That's what I would have wanted now from the Minister of Defence to ask how is it ensured that this kind of learning process there then takes place during it. Is it the learning of personal competence, or are we in the Defence Forces perhaps also developing the direction of education in the direction that we in the Defence Forces also have more central opportunities in the fight against terrorism here on the domestic continent? Or what all the benefits of being developed are being learned... Apparently, some plan must be that such a process then really could benefit our own Defence Forces and ability specifically for defence military activities on Finnish soil.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u75	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the safety of Finnish soldiers, but also to the safety of their families here in Finland. And since the threats today are very different from those of the past, attention has also been paid to this issue when the operation of a soldier ends that he and his family in Finland can continue to live with a secure mind? My second question relates to the feeling that the Western countries are often rather late when these terrorist attacks take place. In fact, what is our awareness of terrorist organisations? Isil is by no means the only one: we have Hezbollah, the Taliban, Boko Haram, many others. And even if we could destroy Isil, there is still much going on in the world that the West and the international community should respond to more strongly. How do we improve our awareness of what is happening in Finland and the West?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u76	Mr President! When the West Alliance under the leadership of the United States defeated Saddam The successful role of Hussein's dictator in Iraq, the aim of which was to bring democracy to Iraq in place of dictatorship, to bring about the rule of law and to give citizens a chance of success and a state of peace that is good and lasting. That project was a complete failure. Political-religious contrasts in the country were actually left alive and strengthened, and partly as a result of the fact that this confrontation has been so impossible and the positions have changed, the Isil organisation has been born there. Extreme Islamism has actually provided the only alternative for those who wish for some sort of organized state, when there is an ever-increasing injustice. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister what other projects the international community, the European Union or more widely, is in the process of developing society in Iraq in the direction of the rule of law and the development of state structures in such a way as to make it necessary for such people to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u77	Madam President! Turkey's role in the debate has risen, so I thought I might comment on it, the role of Turkey, both from the perspective of Finland and the EU. It is indeed true that there are many human rights problems in Turkey: the treatment of minorities, the problems of freedom of expression, the lack of freedom of the press, the lack of independence of the judiciary. These are very serious issues, and by turning a blind eye to them, the EU is actually letting the very values of Europe we hold on to, or those that are important to us. In fact, I hope that the EU and Finland will make a sound on these issues. The EU seems to have forgotten its value because of the fear of the refugee situation. In fact, the interesting thing is that, a couple of weeks ago, I also visited the Kurdish region of Turkey, the Kurdish people in Turkey and the Kurds in Syria were not very warm with the Kurds in Iraq.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u78	I will give six more replies, and then the ministers’ answers. These six persons are representatives of Elo, Haavisto, Pelkonen, Lindtman, Räsänen Päivi and Kivelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u79	Madam President! I believe that this cooperation by Finland is indeed an honour for the defence and support of our Western values and of our European friend France. Isis is the head of a snake that must be cut off if we are to prevent terrorist attacks in Europe. Last week I went to the United States and there I talked to several congressmen and also heard the presidential candidates for the various parties, and it is clear that the United States is committed to the fight against terrorism, but there was concern as to whether Europe was equally committed and whether Europe could secure its borders and its neighbouring regions to deal with this situation. I would like to ask the Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs Timo Soin, how Finland intends to promote or be able to promote transatlantic relations as a militarily non-aligned country, so that a country such as the United States is as powerfully involved in this project as possible, because the fight against terrorism also requires the military power of the United States.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u80	Mr President! I would have drawn attention to the same point as Mr Kantola. After Isis has hopefully been defeated, unfortunately, the problems in Iraq or Syria are not over. In a certain way, we failed in what we tried to do after the fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003. Iraq is increasingly divided into ethnic, religious groups. I would have called for this great plan behind this operation. Now we are supporting the Peshmerga forces in the north, we are, in a way, supporting the semi-autonomous Iraqi Kurdistan, and, in the worst case, of course, Iraq will then be divided into different regions, i.e. not getting this unified regime in order. What measures could be taken to help Iraq as a whole towards sustainable development and to become a country where human rights for all are respected? It would be important to have this big vision of Iraq behind us as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u81	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has already raised this national crisis management veteran programme, and I too would have asked what the situation is with that programme at the moment. The second point relates to Nordic cooperation. After all, in military crisis management operations, the Nordic countries are often the most natural partners for Finland, for example, cooperation with other Nordic countries is more advantageous in terms of logistics, and I would have asked the ministers whether the continuation of this Finnish operation has been coordinated in any way with the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u82	Madam President! Indeed, as Kari, Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, said: There has been a change in the Finnish Parliament in a short period of time. When we set out for this operation Erbil, the debate about one year ago has certainly changed in this Chamber in a much more positive direction. The second point is what should be given to the government to acknowledge that the government is now different from this entry in the Government Programme — the withdrawal from these crisis management operations was unrealistic. I repeat the question raised here by Mr Paatero. We support this new approach and ask: how is this funding planned? The important thing is that it's taken care of. The third is, of course, significant: there has been no such consensus in this Chamber as to how men remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u83	Madam President! The concerns of the representatives of Arhinmäki, Andersson and Yanar about Turkey's activities are, in my view, very legitimate, and it is worrying if we now overlook the increasing violations of human rights committed by Turkey, the restriction of freedom of expression and religion, the restriction of the rights of minorities in the search for cooperation between the EU and Turkey in the area of asylum and refugee policy. I think it is impossible, in this situation, to support Turkey's efforts towards accession negotiations. It could happen that when we run away from the wolf, the bear will meet, so the problems will only get worse. My question is: what is the Finnish Government's view, how the Prime Minister or Foreign Minister comments on the concerns about what is here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u84	Mr Kivelä and then the ministers answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u85	Mr President! So now we are embarking on "advise and assist". That is an important line of action, and it is necessary to make clear to the reservists and those in active service who are applying for these tasks, what kind of work they are going to do. I therefore ask: What are the risk assessments of A&A activities and what are the effects of such a significant change in the way we operate in Finland’s peace and security activities,taking into account the fact that at this time
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u86	Congressman Arhinmäki, 10 more seconds, as requested.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u87	Madam President! I just want to say that here the Left Alliance is taking a stand on this operation. When it has been interpreted here that there is a general position on the EU's foreign and security policy, we will not take a position here — we will take this mission, which has been reported on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u88	Now the ministers answer. Prime Minister Sipilä, then ministers Soini and Niinistö, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u89	Mr President! Thank you for the debate. Firstly, according to the Government Programme, Finland is not withdrawing from crisis management tasks, we have reduced them in accordance with the Government Programme, but in the autumn we made the decision to continue in Lebanon, now comes this decision. Mr Kaikkonen's question about whether it is Mali or Lebanon: it will be decided by the summer, but it would be quite natural to extend that operation in Lebanon. Congressman Pelkonen asked about the foreign fighters. This is part of the EU Counter-Terrorism Action Plan that we should criminalise together to become foreign fighters. Then there is the situation in Turkey and the EU. I very much share its concern about human rights and freedom of the press, freedom of expression. This was the subject of a hard debate at that European Council on Monday. Under no circumstances are we selling our values. But the fact that we are opening up new figures in the negotiations on membership opens up the opportunity to discuss these issues properly, and that is precisely the intention. If I could briefly repeat what this agreement of Tuesday night is trying to achieve: order on the external borders, aid on the camps, and then from the camps organized, controlled as part of the quota refugee system — or whatever system it will be — the refugees will be distributed here. But we will help closer to the crisis areas, help closer to people's homes, and this aid will not go to Turkey, but to the Syrians who are in those camps. We have been through this many times: we are not assisting Turkey, we are assisting Syrian refugees in Turkey.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u90	Madam President! There's a lot of questions here. There's a lot of compliments. — — — — Or there were more. — But I must thank Mr Heinäluomaa very much now that your praise has warmed up more than the spring sun, Mr President! On these issues, which were raised by representatives Kantola and Haavisto, this stabilisation of Iraq is an important issue. We are clearly dealing here with the fact that there was a pretty bad mistake made when part of the group was eradicated. On the contrary, we must strive to involve these people. This is interreligious dialogue, mediation and so forth. Mrs Haavisto and I have met a sheik of many appearances in New York, and that dialogue is important. If things break up, it's bad. You always have to talk, you always have to talk. That's where we might find the solution. Then came this threat among immigrants. Yes, terrorism knows no borders. The threat level in Finland is still low, but not non-existent. There's a possibility of a blow. There has been much talk of this in public, for example that something might happen before the British referendum. There are speculations like this. I hope nothing happens, but this threat exists and is real. Congressman Elo asked about transatlantic relations. They're important. Finland is one of the EOP peace partners together with Sweden, Georgia, Jordan and Australia, and it is important for us that this link is also maintained. Then Iraq and the return agreements and Turkey. This issue of return agreements is constantly maintained at the level of the authorities and at every political ministerial meeting. This is a difficult matter in that some EU countries have this and some do not. Sweden, among other things, does, but it has been possible to make a few ten compulsory returns. In Finland, for example, there are over 3,000 voluntary returns. So here's a reason to see these two tracks moved forward. Then there is the question of Turkey and the Kurdish question. This is a very difficult matter because, in addition to what has been mentioned, there is also a very strong anti-Turkish anti-Russia stance, and there is also a contrast between Turkey and Russia, the NATO country. This is a very dangerous pattern. Then another, this Kurdish matter. This one's got a lot of life. Of course, no terrorist act of appearance is acceptable. Yes, I do. We have three Members of the European Parliament who have argued in the last few days that the PKK should be removed from the list of terrorist organisations. I doubt that this justifies the PKK's action and creates any basis for its removal from this list. Just as the Prime Minister said, participation in follow-up operations will be brought here to Parliament during the spring. This UNIFIL side would certainly be very likely and natural.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u91	Madam President! As Mr Pelkonen, among others, said, this operation, Erbil's OIR, does not have common approved rules for the use of force. This means that each participating country has issued its own force codes. There are differences, Mr Käärääinen and Mr Paloniemi, but as far as I know, there have been no problems. As far as Finns are concerned, the force is given by the Chief Staff, and, as I have already told you before, the power may in principle be used only for self-defense and emergency protection. In addition to Mr Pelkonen, Mr Wallin asked about self-security and, in particular, the risks. There are, there is no denying it, there are roadside bombs on fire and everything else possible. In addition to material readiness, a number of trainings and pre-ordained practices aim to minimise the risk to our troops of being the target of a devastating attack. The Finnish Training Department has been operating in the area for seven months, so we already have information from the grassroots level. It must be admitted, however, that advisory tasks are more risky than training tasks. The representative, Savola, asked about the composition of this additional group, the relationship between the regular staff and the reserve members. The additional team is composed by the Defence Forces, and the Ministry of Defence does not have details of the preparation at this stage. In this connection, Mr Elovaara, I would like to say that the security issues of the soldiers' close to him in the country will be taken into account. Generally speaking, it can be said that too much should not be said that there will be no problems. This also relates to Mr Kivelä's question. I believe, however, that the protection police are up to speed. To Mr Savola, the main benefits of the ORO for the Defence Forces or the Defence Forces for the development of domestic capabilities are derived from leadership. The operation gives us experience of operating under conditions such as war, certainly behind the front line. Then there was at least Mr Heinonen, who asked about the crisis-management veteran programme, and that is a legitimate question. We celebrate the 60th anniversary in the history of Finnish crisis management and peacekeeping. With regard to this forwarding of the programme, I would like to thank my predecessor, Minister of Defence Carl Haglund, and I hope to be able to come back to details later, but in general I can say that it is moving forward like a train.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u92	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u93	Madam President! The clause on mutual assistance in the Treaty of Lisbon changed from words to meat when, following the terrorist attacks in Paris in November 2015, France made a request for assistance to the Member States of the European Union. This is the first time that the clause has been invoked, and Finland has received a specific request. Finland takes the obligation to provide assistance seriously and we have an obligation to provide assistance to other EU Member States. That is why action has now been taken. If the situation so requires, we will expect mutual assistance from other Member States as well. Finland can respond to a request for assistance by training the fighters of the North Iraqi armed forces in the future. In the fight against Isil. The International Alliance will provide military support for Daesh's actions, prevent foreign fighters from leaving the conflict area, try to stop Daesh's funding channels and undermine its ideology. In addition, the aim of the international coalition is to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in the region. Finland has long experience in international peace-keeping. However, the nature of the conflicts and the international environment have changed considerably since the last millennium. We are currently participating in 12 military crisis management or military observation missions, which are of an increasingly comprehensive and complex nature and often require specific expertise. Crisis management is an international responsibility and a strengthening of international security, as threats are also reflected in Finland’s security situation. It is not in line with Finland’s security interests if there is war in Europe or in its neighbouring regions. Wars cause migrations, the consequences of which we have seen in Finland over the past year and last year in concrete terms. The number of asylum seekers has come to our country many times as many as in previous years. The consolidation of living conditions in the countries of origin is therefore a key factor in curbing the situation. By participating in crisis management tasks, we will also strengthen our national defence capabilities and our military credibility. Experience acquired under demanding conditions strengthens staff skills and also shows other countries the competence and interoperability of Finnish troops. In fact, Finnish reservists and professional soldiers have received praise for their excellent training skills both from other participating countries and from the trained forces. Madam President! We must have the will to contribute to solving international problems, even if there is no complete risk of crisis management. Finns are behind the front lines, but the threat is, for example, suicide and bomb attacks. I therefore consider it important that special attention be paid to the safety of Finnish troops in their various crisis management missions around the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u94	Mr President! There is good reason for both continuing and expanding cooperation in education and training in the security sector in Iraq. Finnish crisis management expertise has always been appreciated in the world. Minister of Defence Niinistö said that this was also the case with Erbil — great. It has already been said several times here that there is a certain win-win situation in itself in a shocking situation where the threat of terrorism is commonplace. I agree with the report on the comprehensive approach to crisis management. Finland has therefore proposed with Sweden that the rule of law sector be supported in Iraq. This important support could be given to the EU civilian crisis management operation. Mr President! In this world situation, we need more understanding of how military and civilian crisis management together support a common goal, stabilisation of the regions in such a way that human rights-based development is possible. Mr Pelkonen must have followed the Minister. Sonia, shoulder to shoulder, to work towards a return agreement in Iraq. I personally thank Minister Soin for his hard work and even more has already done as Foreign Minister in this historic challenging situation. I wonder who else, as a foreign minister, would almost at first have started difficult negotiations on return agreements in Iraq, not to mention many other important issues for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u95	Madam President! The training mission, the crisis management operation in Iraq, is important and Finland should participate in it. All in all, foreign and security policy in this Chamber generally includes very unanimous decision-making, and this time too, and that is a good thing. All those involved must be commended for that. What is happening in Iraq and Syria by Isis is brutal and everything must be done to prevent it. That is why Finland's participation, actually a continuation, in this training mission is extremely important. Seven months there have been 50 soldiers, and its withdrawal to 100 soldiers and its extension are also an important signal from the outside that Finland wants to be involved in these important tasks. All in all, this also underlines the solidarity of the EU: that we have the capacity to provide assistance and that we also have the capacity to receive help if that bad day for us was to come on terrorism. Of course, security factors were the starting point when we sent our own soldiers to the world. I am very pleased with the description by the Minister of Defence that our soldiers have the best equipment at their disposal, armoured vehicles, and the safety factors are taken care of — although we hear that there are twofold: of course, there are always more or less risks, depending on where they are involved. All in all, even when returning from there, aftercare must be well maintained. It is a good thing that those of us involved in crisis management are given vet status. Here, on the rehabilitation side, care must be taken of mental well-being, as well as physical, after these operations. Madam President! I would like to emphasise that, when we participate in international operations, we must still have in mind the main task of our Defence Forces, namely to maintain the national defence capability and to support this task, in which we participate. And when we gain international experience — this time especially leadership experience — of tough situations and tough action, I believe it will make a good contribution to our national defence capability with regard to the Defence Forces staff. And of course, although the details are not yet known, I hope that, if possible, the reservists will also have the opportunity to participate in these tougher international tasks. Summa summrum: I would like to thank our ministers and our government for the good preparation and the whole Parliament across party boundaries for this debate. It is good that there is agreement on our foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u96	Madam President! Finland’s cooperation on education in the security sector in Iraq is part of the work of the International Alliance against ISIS, a response to the French request for assistance. I believe that this is an honour to defend and support Western values and our European friend. I am glad that this cooperation will receive such strong unanimous support in this Chamber. Isis is the head of a snake that must be cut off if we are to prevent terrorist attacks in Europe. Last week I went to the United States and there I spoke with congressmen and heard Republican presidential candidates and also Hillary Clinton. Sometimes I heard something that pleases me, and sometimes something that pleases me less.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u101	Mr President! The terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 in New York and Washington led the US leadership to find the country at war. The destabilization of American security triggered extensive efforts to catch and destroy the perpetrators. This action by the federal security authorities and the armed forces began to be called the war against terrorism. The war on terrorism became a concept that began to be used in conflicts around the world when those in power wanted to use extraordinary methods to combat violent groups that disrupt state stability. The concept of the war on terrorism became useful when it was intended to stop a growing opposition or an anti-government democracy movement. The war against terrorism became a useful argument when people wanted to keep suspects in prison for years without a fair trial, such as in Guantanamo. In the wake of the terrorist attacks in Paris last November, the French government stated that the country was at war. In concrete terms, this was reflected in a significantly elevated state of preparedness, which led to a dramatic change in the day-to-day lives of citizens for several days. It was clear that the insolent and massive terrorist attack on Paris in Europe was also seen as an attack on our continent and our culture. Preparedness was increased elsewhere. Public authorities' investments in security and data mining were increased. Security checks became commonplace in places where a large number of people meet. The authorities, the police, the soldiers who carry the machine gun prominently appeared on the street in the big cities of Western Central Europe. We'll go to the church by the machine gun. The safety of all of us has been shaken because of Isil. It is therefore quite natural for European countries to join forces in demarcating, stopping and eliminating the activities of a terrorist organisation, and it is historically important and in terms of the identity of the European Union that France has now interpreted its own situation as a sufficient basis for the country’s call for assistance to the mutual assistance clause of the Treaty of Lisbon. When participating in educational cooperation, Finnish soldiers do not participate in combat activities. Finland is not at war and is not fighting a war against terrorism. We are participating in the fight against terrorism by providing our own expertise in military training aimed at stopping the terrorist organisation Isil and stabilising the longer-term situation in Iraq. Mr President! Although we are not at war, it is clear that Isil chooses how it interprets Finland's role as part of the security activities of the current Iraqi Government. It would be misleading to say that our increasing activity against Isil does not affect the terrorist organisation's interest in us as a potential target. It was no coincidence that France and Paris were the target of the attack. With this in mind, of course, we are striving for Isil’s ability to surprise us to weaken and thereby reduce the threat. Mr President! The security situation in Iraq is difficult because of the failure to instill the rule of law and democracy in the post-Dictator Saddam Hussein. Isil's rise is driven by mistrust between political and religious groups and the resulting lack of state structures. For some groups, Islamism has provided the only hope for an organised country in this situation. That is why, along with the military detention of Isil, considerable and international efforts are needed to enable the state structures to develop and strengthen in such a way that they are perceived as strengthening justice among the various population groups. The military efforts of the international community are not sufficient to achieve this goal. In addition, substantial efforts are needed in international development cooperation to develop social institutions at a sustainable level. In addition to the war on terrorism, Mr President, we need the efforts of the international community to bring about peace in the fight against terrorism. Let the peace against terrorism be our goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u102	Mr President! We are now holding the most important foreign and security policy debate in this parliamentary term. This government report has many dimensions. It is this training operation in Iraq and its importance, which has been well dealt with here. But the real big line is about the importance of the European Union to Finland's security and the importance of solutions in the Union and the decisions we are now making for our future. The European Union is a security community, as has been well stated here in several speeches. And I think that is what many of us thought when, more than 20 years ago in 1994 in a referendum, we voted on membership of the Union. We have made the right choice of association in Europe, and this will also have a strengthening effect on our security. France did a great service to the development of the Union and to its own self-confidence by mobilising the EU Treaty assistance procedure. It was important for France, a country of sufficient size, and what matters is that it took place immediately after this terrorist attack took place and that all Member States, each in their own way, expressed their support. It is clear that the procedure now in place is a precedent. It clarifies the importance of membership of the Union for all Member States. This is of particular importance for Finland, and it is worth quoting what Mr Salolainen said earlier in his wise speech here. We also had many researchers, but also politicians, who flouted the European Union with this idea of solidarity and also with the importance of the Union's aid clauses. It was declared a month and, one can say, year after year that, after all, these do not mean anything at all. And as Mr Salolainen said, so did the President. Mrs Niinistö's comments on this point were criticised for the fact that the Union does not offer anything to Finland in terms of security. It is very quiet now — fortunately. From Finland's point of view, it is clear that the procedure now adopted and the solidarity between the Member States of the Union in practice will also strengthen our position. Finland is therefore one of the countries whose position since the activation of this post-Paris EU assistance clause has been strengthened and should be listed. Finnish Government and Foreign Minister Soin would actually have every reason to reserve flowers and a Finnish fish rooster and send them to President Hollande, where the development now seen began. This debate on the Finnish line would be important in an organised way in relation to the development of our own line in the context of the European Union's solutions. It is wrong that this big debate on Finland's security policy and the importance of the security solutions of the Union should fall under the feet of this training mission in Iraq. However important this operation is, it is only one crisis management operation among others. What remains of this is the strengthening of the European security community. The government has handled this line well together with the President. The Government's policies since the first day have been clear and based on Finland's interest in responding positively to the French request for assistance. In this respect, the government as a whole deserves the support and appreciation of the Parliament. Then you can ask questions. How did it take us eight years to settle this matter of assistance, even though Parliament made proposals in this regard in 2008? And you can also ask whether this matter should not have come to Parliament immediately in December, preferably by means of a communication, seeking political direction on such an important issue from the whole of Parliament. As has been said here, France announced that it was at war and Finland announced that it would help France. It would have been worth taking a stand for the whole Parliament. After listening to Mr Arhinmäki's speech, is the whole Parliament behind this EU's security thinking or is our consensus only about the Iraq operation? So I hope that the government will continue its work and ensure that it has parliamentary support for this big line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u103	Madam President! Mr Heinäluoma is right in his analysis that the security dimension of the European Union, with this decision-making — which we are now dealing with — will become clearer and stronger. Yes, it clearly adds to the thinking and the sense of security that if such a situation arises, we too can get help if necessary. But I'm going to this operation in Iraq anyway. At the time of the first decision on Finland’s participation in training cooperation in the security sector by 50 soldiers, there was a rather deep debate on the risks for soldiers leaving for training tasks as well as on the possible terrorist attacks or the increase in the terrorist threat for those countries participating in this mission. It is clear, of course, that this new extended decision is not reducing these risks. This should in particular be taken into account now that this Internal Security Report is being prepared and brought to the attention of Parliament this spring. I am concerned that the frameworks currently approved by the government in practice mean, for example, that some 800 police officers will be reduced by 2019. Similarly, as far as the Border Guard is concerned, we have great concerns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u104	Madam President! There has been a good debate here today and, as Mr Heinäluoma said earlier, a foreign and security policy debate, you can say, a new core has been found today. What is gratifying is that this view is shared on the right and left side of the Chamber — it is unfortunate that, in the case of the Left Alliance, a small cap was left open on this view of theirs. The fact that a mutual assistance clause has been activated in Europe and the wise diplomatic appeal by France has now led to a debate on external security in Europe and to a strong European security perspective. I would have asked the ministers who, unfortunately, have just left whether this Article 42.7 should now be taken a little more seriously also in the context of the construction of the foreign and security policy report. What kind of new perspective does this situation give to the area of European defence, shared responsibility and mutual assistance? I believe it's very different from the picture before last November. I asked earlier about the money, with which budget reserve the government intends to plan national crisis management in the future. I hope that we will get an answer to this at the stage of the report in committee and, at the latest, at the time when the matter comes back to the Chamber. It would be desirable for Parliament to be given a broader overview of the international crisis management package in the same context. Now these crisis management entities are being carried out in pieces, now Erbil and during the spring Lebanon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u105	Mr President! Three aspects: Firstly, the consensus that has prevailed here is precisely about participation in the Erbil mission, and that is, of course, a positive thing. I do not remember that such broad and clear support for such a crisis management operation would have previously become — so unreserved and strong. There's an explanation for that. Then there is the second aspect: Yes, this perspective that the European Union is now showing itself to us Finns as a particularly clear security community is a very important aspect of this kind of world. The EU is not a military alliance, it is not meant to be, and it cannot become one, at least in a very short term. It is also a security community in two respects from our point of view: firstly, the EU has the tools to build a wide range of security. It has many factors in building peace in its hands. This is crisis management expertise, development policy, mediation, humanitarian aid and coordination. That, in my opinion, will become this force for peace-building that the EU has in relation to everything else. Then the third point is this assistance, mutual assistance, section 42.7. The French request for assistance was a test, and it showed that this bilateral section works. I think it is clear — Mr Kari asked whether this was on the UTP agenda — that it should be on the agenda as a very strong line. The government needs to have positions on it. But it has not yet been possible to discuss the important details of how closely and with what limits we will take a position on the participation of our own Defence Forces outside our borders in military operations, i.e. other than crisis management operations. It's a big question. It needs to be discussed throughout this year here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u106	Mr President! I personally think it is very important that in this report on the UTP, we consider in depth this development of the EU's common foreign and security policy and these articles, the mutual assistance clause 42.7 and the solidarity clause Article 222, and then even at the angle of taking account of these British solutions. Of course, this can be taken into account if the report is due only after that referendum in Great Britain, or in the response of Parliament, the report will be able to assess it. But it is of great importance in this whole case anyway, so that it must be taken into account. Mr President, these resources for crisis management have also been discussed here and, at the beginning of the reign, they seemed to be rather small. Now that some time has passed, however, it seems that the government will react to the need, which is evident. That is a wise course of action, and that is a good thing. Of course, in perhaps four years’ time, it is difficult to assess what the need for a year is. That depends on how things develop, that is, the government is on the move, and that is good. Of course, these can also be dealt with in additional budgets as necessary. Mr President! This is now going to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the report and PuVille, the Committee on Defence, for the opinion. It is certainly good for the Committee on Defence to study these risks and security above all. I drew attention to the fact that even the Minister said out loud that the risk of participation in this new block may be higher than in this old one when we go there more in the field. We should go over this carefully. The UAV, on the other hand, is prepared for this work to take place soon. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this report could be completed in the early part of April, if there are no surprises on the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u107	Mr President! There has been a rare consensus in this House in many speeches on this issue, and it is, of course, a pleasure in this spirit to be able to deal with it. It is certainly partly due to what Mrs Kääriäinen pointed out in her previous speech that this brutal, disgusting enemy unites not only the parliamentary parties but also a very wide range of countries in a common fight against Isil. At the same time, however, it must be borne in mind that war alone will not be able to eliminate this terrorist colony. There is also a need for softer measures in those crisis areas, in addition to what is now being decided. Development cooperation and humanitarian aid, peace-building there is needed, hopefully also the civilian crisis management operation, reconstruction at some point. I hope that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will also be able to take this side, because the report also mentions that Finland, together with Sweden, has raised the issue of the possibility of increasing support for the rule of law sector in Iraq, including the possibility of a European Union civilian crisis management operation. I hope that, during this parliamentary term, we will still have the opportunity to deal with this operation as well, that things will develop so well. But it is now, of course, important that we invest in this operation with what is possible for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u108	Mr President! In this respect, Mr Räsänen's remarks should certainly be taken into account, and also in that longer-term peace-building process. Well, there is a situation there, and especially the situation of children is very weak in those crisis areas, but in the longer term it might also make sense to reflect on the commitment of young people to these peace processes. There are a lot of angry young people in these areas, especially men, and if this group is not able to talk behind the winds of peace about these things, to build its own homelands, it can be difficult to come up with long-term lasting solutions. But, Mr President, I actually asked for the floor to say that those to which Mr Heinäluoma drew attention — this position at EU level and the testing of articles — were essential aspects and the Committee on Foreign Affairs must now consider the importance of this aspect of the report. Personally, as chairman of the committee, I would think it reasonable that at least some of this reflection should be carried out in that report. It is true that there was a bit of a break in the left-wing union of Arhinmäki from this point of view, and I am sure that it must now be discussed in committee, then, that what line is being taken here? Of course, it would also be valuable if a unanimous report were to emerge from this, since the spirit of this debate here has, however, been quite similar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-09-ps-21.u109	Madam President! I've got one more representative. Mr Räsänen was able to leave, but I would have supported Mr Räsänen's view that humanitarian and judicial work could also be linked more clearly to operations of this type. In addition to the military crisis management work and the war against terrorism, I would like to remind you of Mr Kantola's good statement on the fight against terrorism, and that peace work is more than military aid, military action — which is also justified in itself. Wars not only end by war, but by broader and deeper support, by building society and so on.
