ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The introduction is made by Minister Lindström, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal provides for the provision of a common court law for all courts. It would bring together the provisions currently in various laws and regulations on judicial functions, organisation and administration, as well as on members of courts and other staff. The aim is to update, harmonise and clarify existing legislation. The Law of the Court of Justice would largely replace existing organisational laws and regulations. However, in view of the specific characteristics of the courts, the provisions on judicial proceedings in different courts would be in their own laws. The proposal is part of a larger package of reforms, which are mutually supportive. The judicial system must also be reformed and stepped up. The Justice Ministry’s Justice Reform Programme for 2013-2025 includes, among other things, proposals for measures to improve the management system of courts, to increase the preparation of judges and to streamline the administration of courts. In addition, the restructuring of the courts will continue. The present proposal contains a number of proposals which, among other things, safeguard the independence of the courts, improve their functioning, improve the quality of justice and increase transparency. A professionally and effectively managed, staff and organisationally functioning, independent and impartial judiciary will produce high-quality solutions within a reasonable period of time. Ultimately, the proposals seek to influence the effective implementation of legal protection. I would now like to highlight some of the most important of the proposals. The Court of Justice Act would only provide for courts and judges to be governed by law, and for regulations to be abolished. The Courts would be able to decide more independently by means of rules of procedure. The law would have more clearly regulated who could serve as a judge. The distribution of cases to judges would also be governed by law, which will contribute to the external appearance of the independence of the courts. The management and administration of courts would be reformed. The duties of the chief judges would be limited to seven years at a time. This would be the next step in the reform of management, since in October 2015 the duties of the intermediate management of court and insurance law were fixed. In district courts, administrative courts and market law, the duties of intermediate management were already fixed-term, which has been a good experience. The system would provide better protection for the continuous development and professional management of the Court of Justice. This is also necessary for future reforms. For example, the district court network is being reformed with 20 district courts in the future, i.e. larger and stronger entities. The independence of the judge would be safeguarded despite the timeliness of the management tasks. Presidents of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court would continue to be appointed on a permanent basis. The structure of the courts' staff and offices as well as the training of judges would be improved. Currently, judicial staff are offered various training courses organised by training organisations outside the Ministry of Justice and the courts themselves, but the challenge of the system has been the lack of coherence and lack of planning and ambition. The reform would make education more systematic and better suited to the specific skills and needs of each judge. Legal staff would be entitled and obliged to take part in training. An independent institution, a judicial training board, would be set up in charge of the planning of training. National training would enable judicial staff to be placed on an equal footing with each other. Taking into account personal knowledge and previous work experience requires a certain degree of flexibility for the system. It is possible to respond to specific needs through internal and regional training. Training posts would be set up in the courts, administrative courts and specialised courts, which would be appointed for a period of three years of training. Assemblies, like other judges, would participate in the proceedings and in the deliberations of the Court of Justice. They should participate in the training programme planned by the Training Board. The aessor system would increase the focus on judges and reduce the short appointments of judges with problems of independence. Jury training and district court jurors would be governed by their own laws. They would be obliged, like judges and expert members, to declare their interests. The proposed laws are intended to enter into force from the beginning of 2017, with the exception of the amendment to the Challenger Act and the provision of the Code on the quorum of the District Court in criminal matters intended to enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u3	Next up, Congressman Tuppurainen. — Let us have a debate in a moment, a few speeches first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u4	Mr President! The government's proposal for a court law is an important reform. The independence of courts and the impartiality of judges are a strong basis for the rule of law. It is appropriate to regard the rule of law as an institution worthy of democracy. Without the rule of law, democracy may become arbitrary and the result of individual elections gives way to dictatorship in the name of a random majority. The Western countries should adhere to the rule of law. Unfortunately, the principle has not yet become a universal rule. On the contrary, even in the European Union there are countries where the rule of law has been called into question. This is a very worrying development and requires careful monitoring and analysis from Finland as well. The forthcoming draft law will bring together scattered legislation into a single coherent and clear package. For this very reason, Minister of Justice Jari Lindström deserves to be commended for escorting the proposal here to Parliament. The content of the proposal has been worked on for more than four years and has undergone two rounds of consultation, each of which had more than 100 contributors. It is therefore appropriate to assume that the proposal has been carefully prepared. This hasn't been ruined in too much time. Mr President! The rule of law requires effective systems and clear laws. However, it also requires more than mere forms. People must be able to be heard and dealt with. The form requires content, resources to support the systems. It is therefore necessary to point out here that the resources of the courts have become too weak over the years. In addition, particular care must be taken to ensure that the network of courts, i.e. district courts, is now being cut down hard. A distant court is not a guarantee of anyone's legal security. With the removal of the district court’s office, lawyers and law firms who seek to work near the district court often leave the localities. The reduction of district courts therefore reduces access not only to district court services but also to legal services and advice in general in many areas. Minister Lindström, how do you respond to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u5	Madam President! At the hearing today we have a government proposal for a court of law. The proposal proposes to provide for a court law applicable to all courts and contains general provisions on courts and judges. I therefore welcome the fact that there is now a single law which brings together the provisions of different laws. The law also includes the provisions of the law and regulation on the appointment of judges and the regulation of the special status of the judge of the State Civil Service Act. As a rule, the posts of the chief judges would be filled for a fixed period, and I welcome this idea. I also think it is important for an independent judicial training board to be responsible for the planning of training, and it is also important for the Court of Justice. On the other hand, I criticised the Minister's proposal to strengthen this district court network in such a way as to reduce its number from 51 to 27 in the past, and now this story is being followed up by the Minister's proposal to further reduce the number of district courts from 27 to 20. Reducing the administrative burden and raising the level of action is in itself appropriate, and improving the legal protection of citizens and reducing court proceedings without jeopardising legal protection are worthwhile objectives. The location and number of district courts should be examined from a number of different perspectives. Account must be taken of the economic, historical, regional, linguistic and, in particular, legal safeguards. During their existence, many district courts that are now planning to be dissolved have invested heavily in finding good practices and staff skills. Now, in reality, we are concerned about the threat of legal certainty. It is often so difficult to initiate a case at a distant office that many people only dream of seeking and obtaining legal protection. The hardest of all, this attack is on Lapland. The Government plans to pinch Kemi district court from Lapland and leaves only one district court in Lapland to Rovaniemi. According to the reform, only a side office would remain in Kemi, and in addition, the seat will cease from Tornio and Kemijärvi and the office will cease from Sodankylä. The role of the judiciary as a social service and also as a provider of regional and equitable legal protection would have been desirable. I wish this message had been clear in the 21st century too. Reducing district courts in Lapland leads many citizens to make an excessive journey to the nearest district court. The costs are now being borne by customers and the threshold for recourse to legal protection provided by the judiciary will increase further. Such a change will increase the regional inequalities of citizens and reduce access to justice-related services. The judicial process in district courts is largely based on the personal presence of the parties concerned. Therefore, in terms of access to justice, the accessibility of the Court of Justice is of great importance. I would have liked more detailed information on the calculations underlying the decisions. I understand the austerity pressures of the government, but I think that we are now going beyond the pain limit to see how much the district court network can be reduced. In calculating the savings, has the government taken into account the extra costs and the extra effort that citizens have to pay for the lengthening of judicial journeys? For example, the abolition and integration of Rovaniemi's administrative right with Oulu, which was made during Minister Henriksson's time, has already shown that there were no savings and that the processing times were on the contrary longer. In addition, the indirect effects of such decisions on the localities where district courts are proposed for closure should be noted. In addition to the jobs of district courts, these localities would, at least to a large extent, also leave other legal jobs, such as legal offices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u6	Mr Kulmala, then there will be a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u7	Madam President! The aim of the Government proposal is to clarify the law on courts and to bring about a coherent whole for the judiciary. The aim is to provide for a uniform law on courts and judges, which would largely replace existing organisational laws and regulations. This reform would modernise regulation both structurally and linguisticly. The Government's proposal is to be welcomed in the overall sense, and this should be commended to the Minister. This proposal proposes, among other things, to lay down the law of the Court of Justice. According to the proposal, the law would apply to all courts and would include general provisions on courts and judges. The law would now consist of provisions on the functions, organisation and administration of courts and their members and other staff in various courts and regulations. The Law of the Court of Justice would repeal, among other things, the District Court Act and the Court of Appeal Act and a large number of existing laws would be repealed. This would mean that these laws will be reformed, which means that new laws will be replaced, so we will not remain in the illegal state. The laws of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court shall be maintained and shall provide for the organisation, management and administration of those courts. I welcome the government's proposal in this regard as a whole. In principle, courts and judges would only be regulated by law, as the Minister has just said. As a rule, I think it is time to give up regulation at the level of the regulation. Detailed provisions on the organisation of the courts are laid down in the Rules of Procedure of each court. Separate laws on special courts will remain unchanged in the reform insofar as they contain provisions on legal proceedings. The composition of the administrative courts, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court would continue to be governed by the laws governing them. The proposal also proposes to lay down, inter alia, laws on the enforcement of the law on the register of binding and subsidiary judicial bodies and on the jurors of the District Court. I think this is an important point, because it is also important for transparency to know the responsibilities of judges. I believe, however, that the responsibilities should also be clarified in employment relationships of less than one year. The fact that there are still jurors in court is also an important point. For centuries the judges have been the interpreters of the public’s sense of justice, the voice of the people’s conscience in court, using the famous common sense in court. Jurors of the District Court participate in criminal proceedings, among other things. The fact that solutions in criminal matters have been formed by laymen representing different views of different groups of the population, the jurors, is likely to increase the confidence of our citizens in the courts. Prosecutors, lawyers and judges want to abolish the jury system. However, I consider the existence of a system to be highly justified. As I have already mentioned, the jury has no capacity to take legal decisions, but they bring more common sense to the case-law. I believe that we need a jury so that we citizens can at least have some kind of belief that the public's sense of justice and the Court of Justice will have even more in common.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u8	Then we can go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u9	Madam President! As indicated by the minister’s presentation, the Government’s scythe is now hitting district courts: Kemi, Kokkola, Ylivieska, Porvoo, Raasepori, Järvenpää, Sodankylä, Kuusamo, Savonlinna — the list is really, really long. And it looks like the center will accept all of this without question. We didn't see this kind of concentration last season. It is now a matter of district courts, where the proceedings are mainly based on hearings, i.e. the presence of the parties concerned. After this, we only have two out of five district courts left in this country compared to 2010. Even court and administrative court arrangements have led to criticism. "The reunification of the courts is a shocking That cannot be allowed." So wrote Jari Lindström in Kouvola Sanomat 2012. Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u10	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! It is very good that this court law has now come to this Parliament. A great deal of work has been done in this regard during the previous term of government. This work has been led by Mr Könkkölä, President of the Court of Appeal, and I am pleased that Minister Lindström has now brought this proposal here. But I would like to hear a little more of Minister Lindström's comments from the point of view of this judicial training and the training of judges themselves. Knowing that there is now a section in this motion which would mean that in future we should have more judges and more lawyers interested in the activities and duties of the judge, how will this be done in practice now and in what way will it be ensured that we will have enough judges in the future who are perfectly capable of the Swedish language? Now, if you go through this reform of the district court as you said last week, we do not have any district court that requires a notary to have complete Swedish language skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u11	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation and preparation. After all, we are dealing with the legislative amendment that has been tabled on this agenda, no cuts or budgetary issues. There seems to be a consensus on the legislative issue itself that it is well prepared and necessary. Thank you, indeed, to the Minister and to all those who have taken part in the preparatory work in the past. As far as the left-wing opposition is now trying to translate the matter, the main point of this district court network is that this should be dealt with when it is on the agenda — when it is on the agenda. Perhaps, however, it is appropriate to reverse the major misunderstandings that have already arisen: The reform does not jeopardise anyone's legal protection and does not in itself change how matters are dealt with in court. And the new model is the best possible with the resources available. The network was kept just as large as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u12	Madam President! The reason that this district court network is also being discussed here, Mr Terho, is probably related to the fact that Mr Lindström himself raised the issue in his own presentation, which was very worthy in many respects. Among other things, the Judiciary Federation has estimated that the last time the district court network was cut, the overall impact of that decision has not been assessed to date. How can the Minister now assure us that we now know what we are doing and with what effect? And above all, what will happen to people’s legal security, access to justice and equality? This is what the common people ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u13	Mr President! This is now harmonising legislation for all courts, and that is certainly a good thing for the clarity of the legislation. Such a great need for development in our judicial system in the future is quite fundamental: whether we will have two supreme courts, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, or whether they should be combined. I hope that, even if the system of training for judges is being reformed, we will still have a system of judicial training, this so-called auscultation system for reserved Omars, because I think it is important that lawyers are well aware of the functioning of the courts and that we also have judges from many different backgrounds. It's not good that the judges come from one pipe. I would now like to comment to the opposition on this reform of the district court which is not being dealt with, which will come to our attention later on, that, in this case, we will be able to ensure legal security by using digitalisation and the security equipment in the current halls that remain, and...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u14	Madam President! It is true that this legislative package, the government's proposal, does not include this list of exclusions from the district court network that the minister presented a couple of weeks ago, but I can see that it is good to point out on this occasion that a rather radical change is now being made in the area of district courts. Yes, there must be concern that equality and legal protection for people are now seriously threatened. On this occasion, we will now have the opportunity to consult the Minister during the debate and receive answers from him on this line too, and that is what I expect as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. After all, in our own opinion, when the economic plan for central government finances was discussed, we were quite unanimous in recording that these guidelines of the district court network should be based in advance on such well-founded criteria. Now I would like to ask you: with what criteria have you decided to present this list of 20 district courts?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u15	Madam President! This global reform aims to strengthen legal protection in Finland, well, but one of the key problems with legal protection in Finland today is that the cases last far too long from that police investigation — the District Court, Court of Appeal, even higher by the permission of appeal. We have to be able to do something about this. The solution is not to add judges, we cannot afford that. The solution is that small, insignificant, less meaningful cases would be dealt with more out-of-court, enabling the courts to focus on the essentials. I know there are such projects. I would like to ask the Minister where it is going to be that these drunk driving and others should be dealt with outside the judiciary in the first place. Then, of course, you can get there if you need to. The second is that there are more bans on appeals. There has also been talk here that we will be able to reach the Supreme Administrative Court today on expulsions, as well as on negative asylum decisions. Is that in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u16	Madam President! The public's perception of the maintenance of legal protection is very different from that of the government at the moment. Money is quite clearly taking legal protection away from many different perspectives. The right of appeal to the Court of Appeal shall be limited by reason of the costs. If someone takes a complaint there, it will cost 500 euros in the future. All this change, which we now have in the legal system, is being guided by money at the moment. This should not be the case. Under no circumstances should economic cycles come between obtaining legal protection for citizens and government proposals and, as it were, a priority. Minister Lindström, I ask you: why is this government line so money-driven now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u17	Madam President! There has been justifiable concern here about this abolition of district courts. I think it is important that the Minister also responds to Mr Lindtman's question as to why you now disagree with yourself. But, Mr President, once again this is a rather strange regional policy, a concentration policy. Especially now we are looking at the representatives of the city centre, who still have a few left in this Chamber. So what is this regional policy: district courts are being abolished, train services are being abolished from the provinces? Really, there are a lot of people in those provinces who are wondering about the change of direction that is currently taking place in the centre of politics as a whole. That is why I, Mr President, hope that this issue will be taken seriously and that we will also hear the answers from the honourable centre as to why this regional policy has changed so much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u18	Madam President! Few people had anything particularly negative to say about this overall reform. It is a good thing that, in this case too, we are reducing regulation, such as the abolition of regulation and the adoption of the Rules of Procedure by the courts themselves, but they are transparently online. This is the same question I would ask now when the district court network falls: We have a duty to come to the witness at the risk of a fine. Could it be possible in the future to make use of audiovisual tools so that witnessing could take place far away and still be of equal value? I think that would be a sensible course of action. It is not the network itself that matters so much, but that the activities function smoothly in the future and with little bureaucracy and little money. By the way, I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that unnecessary complaints should be made less and that there should not be any between the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u19	Madam President! For the delegates Kalmari and Kurvinen. When we talk about this digitalisation, there must be some place where their equipment can be, and when we look at this list — Alajärvi, Alavus, Kauhajoki, Kristiinankaupunki, Pietarsaari — Mr Kurvinen, is there even going to be these seats here in Ostrobothnia when they are being closed down? No, he won't. And what is it, Mr President, is that whenever the centre is in the government, in 2010...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u20	Madam President! This debate has been of great interest, but the starting point for what the Minister of Justice said in his own speech is that these laws should be streamlined: here is a package going on. What will then be the decision of the district court, just as Mr Kurvine said in his own speech, will come later in time. But as Mr. Viitanen here just now with a very loud voice and the voice trembling proved how these train cuts and these district court cuts fit together, it is easy to answer: If nothing happens on that train journey, then there is no need to go to the district court. And the train business and the rest of them will be dealt with separately. They can, of course, be dealt with separately, because they are budgetary matters. Madam President! One more thing. I also welcome what Mr Zyskowicz said in his speech that such small cases — such as drunken driving and similar small cases — must really be dealt with quickly and unnecessary rights of appeal must be reduced. Complaints are part of Western case-law, but such that the same small case is divided into all stages of justice and that society is made huge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u21	Madam President! When I myself am a little inconclusive, I ask Minister Lindström: is this the case that the courts of district courts and sittings are decided by a decree from the Ministry of Justice, so they do not come to this Chamber? But the real question for Minister Lindström is: One judge at the District Court, Hannu Laitinen, wrote a good article in Helsingin Sanomat, asking whether a system should be created in Finland in which a court could refuse to issue a challenge if the claimant or applicant had previously filed a number of actions or filed applications based on bullying or otherwise not having a real basis, i.e. the so-called narcissistic appellants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u22	Madam Speaker! The trial should theoretically be quick, reliable and cheap. We are talking about this speed when we are concerned about this reduction in seats, but of course there will be no more speed by reducing judges, and that is why the government is not reducing judges, but, in fact, now that recent developments have been examined, judges have been added to the Helsinki Administrative Court, for example, in these asylum applications, and that is why it has also been possible to safeguard them other matters of the Helsinki Administrative Court, such as custody issues. It is precisely in this regard that the government has a difficult task of guaranteeing the legal certainty of the judicial system, including in terms of speed, when the State is in financial difficulties, but that is precisely what this court law will provide for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u23	Mr President! Last season I tried to count, keep track of how many times the representatives of the city centre said in this Chamber 'to concentrate, concentrate, concentrate'. I was exhausted on the way, and now that I am listening to you, you are merely trying to avoid this debate. I think we are now at the very heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u26	Mr President! This is not what Mrs Feldt-Ranta was talking about, but I am now clarifying this matter to Mrs Lindtman, what is meant by digitalisation in court proceedings. It means — when Alajärvi was brought up, Alajärvi Ankkurit, Alajärvi is a nice place — that video communications can be put to the municipal office, which can then become a defendant, a Witness. He doesn't have to drive to Seinäjoki, he doesn't have to drive to Vaasa, he doesn't have to drive to Kokkola by car, he has video access to the district court from the local authority or the country hall, and then there's a sufficient formation to solve the matter. Now, this solution, which comes to the debate in the autumn, which is what the SDP is now shouting about, provides the funds to ensure that all the halls where people will be sitting will have proper IT connections. And I think that the district courts should be of the right size: this is in line with the division of the provinces; this is also the province model, in fact. This does not go entirely according to the division of the provinces, but conforms to it. It's important that the cases are resolved quickly, that we have...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u27	Madam President! I understand Mr Kurvise's pain as a centrepiece in this matter, since this is an unprecedented concentration from the centre, I must say. But one thing, Minister Lindström, to which I would like to draw your attention is this concentration of summary matters. For example, you suggest that matters from Lapland are concentrated in Oulu or Kainuu. All Sámi-language matters have been located in the District Court of Lapland until now, and once you notice from the Population Register System that the customer is Sámi-language, you have been asked which Sámi language you use. You in the Ministry of Justice are gathering views on the implementation of linguistic rights and at the same time you are moving a whole range of Sámi-language issues out of the Sámi-speaking area. I ask you: does this not indicate a considerable contradiction within your ministry? Does your right hand know what your left is doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u28	Värderade fru talman! Minister Lindström tog upp tingsrättsreformen. Enligt reformen blir Ålands tingsrätt den enda tingsrätten kvar i landet med svenska som förvaltningspråk vilket oroar oss, och mig som Ålands företrädare i detta hus, om det indrektro Kan få consekvenser för tingsrätten och den Svenskspråkiga servicen. Min specifika fråga till Minister Lindström berör summiska tvistemål, som enligt lagförslaget ska centraliseras till högst TVå tingsrätter per hovrättskrets. Det betyder att Ålands tingsrätts tvistemål kommer att handhas av Egentliga Tavastlands tingsrätt. Hur ska det i practiceken kunna fungera på svenska? Vi har på Åland tusen fall per år, vilket ändå är en ansenlig mängd. Har Tavastlands tingsrätt kapacitet att hantera den ox saken på svenska?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u29	Madam President! We have been talking here about the rights of Swedish speakers. The fact is that the District Court of Vaasa has been Swedish until now because Coastal Ostrobothnia is 51 per cent Swedish. There are 47 per cent of Finnish speakers in that area and the rest are in other languages. When that was the case, only eight of the judges were English - speaking, and they were eight mandates. They were required to have perfect Swedish skills. 80 per cent of the cases were Finnish-speaking and 20 per cent Swedish-speaking cases. Now that this situation is changing, that does not mean that there are no Swedish-speaking judges, but that the Swedish-speaking side has mandates for Swedish-speaking judges, who, of course, are required to have a complete knowledge of Finnish. However, legal protection will be maintained in that area: Finnish-speaking judges dealing with Finnish-speaking people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u30	Let us take Mr Essayah, then I would ask the Minister to reply, and then we shall continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u31	Madam President! This reform of court law here has received a great deal of praise, and that is nothing. I think it was a good thing that Mr Lindström, in his own speech, specifically brought up this reform of the district court in order to be able to discuss it in this Chamber, and I thank him for it. You said that this is how larger and stronger entities are created. Well, at the moment I feel that that legal protection for people across Finland is now very different. For example, from Ylä-Savo, the office of the District Court of Iisalmi will be dissolved, as well as from Varkaus, and all cases will focus on Kuopio. I would have asked, therefore, when it has not been possible to show special savings from this measure, when the Sukeva prison is 50 km away from Iisalm and now these customers have to take it on top of the plus 85 km, that is to say that these journeys are getting longer, more police officers are needed to escort customers and, in that sense, costs are increasing, there are not even enough facilities in Kuopio for the simultaneous abolition of these two offices: what is the significance of this centralisation when there is no savings to be found, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u32	Then to Minister Lindström for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u33	Madam President! Thank you for the debate. Of course, the subject itself, the proposal, was not much discussed, but the district court network was discussed. That's all right. Let's talk it over. Now there were accusations that the district court network was being thinned too hard, that is what Mr Tuppurainen said, and many others went to this same song, forgetting that the district court network team originally proposed something quite different, even more drastic. In my opinion, as Mr Terho said here, this was a victory. This was the best possible solution in this economic situation that we have in hand. If I had the money to shut up and the ponds, why don't we just keep it all? But when it wasn't, we were faced with the reality that something had to be done, and it started to build this model of 20. And now that the question has been asked, including in relation to Lapland: I know exactly that there are long distances. I remember when they were going around and I realized that there are long straights here, and you can drive to Lapland for different things. I would remind you that in Lapland there are still Rovaniemi, Kemi, Sodankylä, Kittilä, Inari, Utsjoki — more than anywhere else because of the distances and transport connections. This was one of the reasons for asking about these criteria. These were achieved in terms of territorial coverage, as Mr Kurvinen pointed out, that every province will continue to have district court services and that they are at an appropriate distance. I do not deny that there will be long distances, but this has been tried to build as justly as possible. My own constituency has also become a qualifier, from all sides. That, however, it is not just the navel that has been viewed here. I understand this concern about this legal security and I understand that concern about linguistic rights too, but I do believe now that we have experts who assure us that this will work. This is the case now that the organisational working group is now starting to look at what this means in practice when we start taking this forward for the premises, for the staff and for everything else. Its organisational working group will also be working on the presentation of the Board of Directors by the end of this year or perhaps by the beginning of next year. That is the way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u34	Then we'll continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u35	Madam President! I do not know how it sounds in these areas, which I listed here, when the Minister said that this was a victory. But you failed to answer one of the key questions I asked. If Mr Lindström felt that the combination of courts, in this case court and administrative rights, was a shocking example of a bad preparation of matters and a political game that could not be allowed, then, Mr Lindström, do you think that Mrs Lindström would now be your very critic in this Chamber? Mr President! As far as this digitalisation is concerned, this will save 1.4 million a year. The digitalization of one hall is a million apiece. I don't really understand Kurvise's math. Yes, we have to take this forward, but now we're going to have a huge scythe again, and then we're going to have to do it again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u36	Madam President! With a little more extensive talk about rights and trials, I myself will raise the most important point in the debate. The most important thing in the end is a smooth and properly progressive trial, and that is certainly what we are looking for. However, this is not always the case. Trials are often very painful, especially for victims of sexual crimes, especially for children, and often long-lasting and open wounds. Are you, Minister of Justice Lindström, doing something about this so that we can, in particular, facilitate and strengthen the role of these victims of sexual crime, children, in legal proceedings? And you have also spoken of judgments of general sense of justice: they do not correspond to them at the moment, especially in the case of crimes of violence, rape and sex. Rape should always be an absolute sentence. In what way, Minister for Justice, are you now moving forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u37	Madam President! I was unable to take the floor when there was a debate here in the Chamber that it might be possible to question it at the municipal hall and then, through video transmissions, evaluate it. This is exactly what the Aipa system is, in fact. But this Aipa system is costing money, and this Aipa system cannot now afford to be put into all these halls of session, and therefore the Chambers of Sessions and the Chambers of Sessions will be closed. That is what this is all about, and an example is now the Ylivieska-Raahe District Court: Ylivieska remains the office, Raahe leaves the office and the place of the sitting. It would have been enough for us to have a sitting — and this is exactly what it was said about — that it only requires its chamber and then it can be held there — but now it stops there, and the reason is this Aipa system. I would like to ask the Minister: what kind of impact assessments were presented to you about these costs, now that I have two types of information on these Aipa system costs, there are less than 10 million estimates of this kind and then there are over 30 million
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u38	Mr President! Indeed, this debate has drifted past the actual proposal, but I will correct these lists so much that, as far as Kuusamo is concerned, we will continue to have this side-session, as we have heard. In other words, the secondary court of the District Court of Oulu is still in session, but we are very upset about the loss of its office, because every job is important to us. Now that we are talking about this digitalisation and we have been talking about teleworking for decades, you might imagine that the work goes along the wires in the other direction too, so I will ask you to consider what work can be done at a distance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u39	Madam President! No one in this Chamber has been critical of the fact that this is not a significant proposal, a sensible streamlining. Unfortunately, this debate itself has gone into the puncture line. I am well aware of how the Minister has gone to great lengths, of the concern that legal security will be maintained, and of whether the reduction of this district court network will be a real savings. I very much welcome the fact that, first of all, I am surprised that only now, in terms of training posts, the judicial system will be developed. This will contribute to strengthening the legal protection of citizens. This is a good way to go; as such, we need a constant debate in society on the implementation of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u40	Madam President! It was also interesting to hear from the Minister that there will be one district court in every province, especially Mr Kurvisen — you are from the constituency of Vaasa, and the constituency of Vaasa is now being abolished by the only district court in the province of Central Ostrobothnia, that is to say, the district court in Kokkola. So from now on, thanks to the central government, we also have a province where there will be no district court of its own. In my opinion, this is a very wonderful line from a government which, by the way, has been a friend of the provinces, at least on social issues to this extent. Minister, since we are now discussing this district court network and its reduction and savings, I cannot help but wonder that, when a new police and justice building has just been built in the town of Pietarsaari — it is a new, modern courtroom — it is now being closed down and closed down, while the seat in Kauhava remains,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u41	Madam Speaker! This Aipa system, which has previously emerged from the debate here — it is the gateway to this digitalisation. Of course, next week the situation is not that every country club will have those digital connections, but this is the direction: you can prove, you can be the defendant in the session, you don't always have to do the right thing on that district trip like you used to. And in the same context that the information systems are in order, I personally see that in the future the court hearing should be mainly video viewing, e-material screening. It speeds up the trials, and people get justice on time, things don't stretch. And I would like to say to Mr Henriksson that I said that this is in line with the regional model — this is not entirely provincial. But the Laman of the District Court of Ostrobothnia has said to the public that Kokkola's position may actually be strengthened: it is no longer an independent district court, but there will be a very strong sitting place where a lot of things are sitting and there will be a lot of legal work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u42	Madam President! I would like to raise, for example, these mergers of administrative and court rights that took place during the last period. For example, when the administrative court of Rovaniemi and Oulu was merged, the processing times had to be shortened. How'd it go? It used to be a year and a half, now it's three years. I had to save rent costs; now I have three more years to pay for that empty space in Rovaniemi, Valtakatu. And he had to save on staff costs — well, he didn't save any. But this mistake should not be repeated, and I hope that these calculations by the Ministry of Justice will hold. The second thing is that the challengers are being thrown on the road to pick up these small criminals now sitting in court. It's gonna cost you. Then the customers are made to pay, take a bus from Tornio to Kemi or anywhere, and the employee is put on the road and sits on the road. This isn't going to save any money. I am convinced of this already.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u43	Madam President! This proposal is indeed welcome and expected and will clarify the law on the courts. This objective also mentions that it modernises regulation in a structural way, and in connection with this modernisation, I would like to ask when the Government programme states that the service level of justice is improved through digitalisation and new technologies, and that emergency services are primarily provided digitally, thus extending the possibilities of dealing with authorities independently of time and place: where are we with this digitalisation and the use of new technologies?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u44	Madam President! I will continue with this thinking of progress, digitalisation. The Minister was not yet able to answer whether this could be done in that direction, as was the case with the postal reform, for example, when the services came closer, even though the postal network, the post offices decreased, and whether there was any obstacle to whether there must be a particularly advanced computer hardware at the other end or whether it would be enough to guarantee security in the halls and so on. What level, for example, would be sufficient to give those statements closer to home? I think this kind of decentralisation is a very fine thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u45	Mr President! So it is a question of centralisation and approval by the Centre. I thought, Mr President, that during this period, when I have followed this policy, there are many things that are no longer astounding, as it has always been strange. However, I am surprised at this sitting when you listen to the speeches made by the people in the centre, such as Mrs Hoskonen, that it is not only acceptable to concentrate, but it is accepted with a smile. With a smile. In fact, let's almost enjoy the fact that we're allowed to concentrate. I find that scandalous, and I wonder what is going on in your politics. Last season, when you accused the government of centralisation, you did not say at all that it was progress, that it was reduction of service points and that services were taken away from people. I am very surprised now, Mr President, and I know that I am not the only one, because many in that province have, for example, asked about train connections under the threat of closure in Pirkanmaa. There is not much smiling about people who go there and are concerned about their access.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u46	Madam President! Indeed, Minister Lindström said in this matter that this proposal for a district court network, which is, of course, still being discussed in another context, was the solution that was the outcome of all the compromises. It is true that we today have a shortage of money in all this society, which we cannot deny. You have to react to it. But as far as this presentation is concerned, we must remember that digitalisation is coming through us all over this day. Today, as a second law, we are dealing with the amendment of the land cycle, where the digitisation of pawnbooks leads to a rapid ability to deal with matters and no need for piles of paper anymore. This will reduce red tape, as administration will be eased and, above all, the possibility will be created for ordinary people to get their legal advice from their own state today, for example, in 5 minutes, when they had to drive from Ilomants to Joensuu. Is this what you are opposed to us going into modern systems? I would like Mr Viitanen to return to this century and acknowledge that the world is changing. There's nothing we can do about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u47	Madam President! Here the Minister quite rightly stated that the working party's proposal was much more drastic. I would therefore appeal to the Minister to take another look at this district court network and, in particular, at these peoples. In my previous speech, I explained how it has not been possible to show that savings are coming, because the transport journeys from Sukevalta are increasing so much and, on the other hand, there is congestion in Kuopio. We need three to four new halls in Kuopio to deal with both Varkaus and the cases moving to Iisalmi. In that sense, I hope that this political reflection on this issue will still be used, and if there are good computational criteria showing that there is no real savings coming, then this issue could still be considered. Of course, we must say, as many people here now speak for this digitalisation, that it is hoped that there will be a solution. But soon it will appear in rural areas that the only state authority there will be R-kioski, which will provide almost all the services. But I do not think that this is a very desirable direction in Finland in terms of legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u48	Madam President! If I have heard and understood what Mr Lindström has just said, he said that the organisational working group will make the final proposal. I think that this debate has been proper and I thank the Minister for having raised this topical issue himself and allowed the debate to take place. But the organization team then evaluates these facts as to whether the arguments put forward have in a way been correct, for example for Iisalme, that they can fit in Kuopio — yes, when making 3 to 4 new halls — all distances and the prison network and others. I hope that this will actually be re-examined and evaluated on the basis of facts, which is the final proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u49	Mr Ojala-Niemelä, Mr Lindtman, Mr Hänninen and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u50	Madam President! Marianne Wagner-Prenner, President of the Rovaniemi Court of Appeal, also said on this reform that this change will not bring savings or increase efficiency, but instead the inequality of citizens will increase and the independence of the Court of Justice will be reduced. As far as digitalisation is concerned, Sweden has far-reaching experience of this and we, as a committee of law, have been familiar with it. A million euros per hall will pay for this equipment and technology. It is not a free job, and there is not much room for progress in this economic situation. These economic realities and framework conditions must certainly be taken into account in this respect. It must also be noted that Finland is a long country and we still have blind spots in the north and, in all respects, this technology is not yet helpful. But, yes, I would have studied this decision from the Minister as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u51	Mr President! Who's resisting digitalisation here? Nobody. Has someone spoken to you like that? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u54	Madam President! I must join Mr Essayah and Mr Laukkanen in saying that there is a great deal of concern here about legal protection and equal treatment and also about processing times, that where are we going in Finland? This has been appealed to the Minister. At least I do not want to be such a bridge-burner, but rather I would like to discuss what we could do in order to guarantee this legal protection for citizens in the future. This proposal to eliminate district court networks and, in particular, the closure of the Chambers and the closure of the Chambers will at its worst lead to this, and that is something no one in this country wants. That is why I would continue to appeal to the Minister to go through the impact assessments together: what did this previous round of tests really bring us, whether it brought savings or cost, and on what basis this list is now based, i.e. what are the right cost impacts and savings expectations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u55	Then Minister Lindström, three minutes. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u56	Mr President! Thank you for the debate, although there will be criticism. So if we start now, which is why we have now done this and how we are going to take it: as I said, the economy is behind it and this proposal from the District Court Network was at the bottom of it. Above all, this preparation will continue, as I said here, with the project organisation. And when Mr Essayah asked about these congestions, it is also the task of this working group to see that this is going to be a transition period by force. In other words, it is very likely that those who are now threatened by this abolition will probably balance those who remain to avoid congestion. It is one of the work of this organisation's working group to see that these congestions do not come until we are in that final model. Electronic services are being developed there, as this has been mentioned here on many occasions, precisely with this Aipa. It's one of the cost factors. Of course, the safety of those who remain must be taken into account. The starting point, however, is that the reform must ensure adequate security equipment for the remaining offices. And must safeguard the rights of the Finnish-speaking and Swedish-speaking population
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u59	Mr President! Good Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In that initial presentation, the terms 'clearing up','supporting each other', 'effective action' — reform would ensure action and development. These are quite worthy objectives, but our legislation does need resources and governance to support it, and the State is only allowed to carry out its purposes within the limits of the law. And what will happen to our people's legal security if money even defines justice, just as Mr Laukkanen talked about this power of money? I personally agree that money cannot define everything. That is why I must say that I am very disappointed with the proposal made by the minister in my constituency to reduce the number of district courts, offices and seats. The proposal increases, as has already been said several times, the travel and salary costs of judges and the costs of state legal aid and the cost of legal aid for citizens and businesses. The worst part is that the proposal undermines the legal security and territorial equality of citizens and congests proceedings. Moreover, there is also a risk that other jobs in the legal field, such as law firms, will leave these areas. My own province of Etelä-Savo, the province of Saimaa, where we have very long distances, is one of the sufferers, and I strongly believe that the District Court of Etelä-Savo should be maintained in such a way that: In addition to the Mikkeli District Court, we would continue to have an office in Savonlinna and In Pieksämäki, the place of the meeting and sufficient staff to deal with matters. Mr President! Nordic society includes maintaining the rule of law and the fundamental rights of citizens. People’s sense of security is not increased by the fact that the services of the judiciary, the police — from there, too, there are two police departments leaving my province — are fleeing the services of Kela and the tax office. The state cannot withdraw from the reach of the citizens. Minister, are you going to report on the impact of this district court proposal on people's legal security, equality in the regions, regional economy, travel costs, the loss of time for judges, space problems and the congestion of hearings? Personally, I would really like to see such a study carried out before any of the places are closed down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u60	Mr President, Fru talman! Indeed, we are discussing a comprehensive court law that applies to all courts, offices, administration, judges, other staff and organisations. Against that background, too, I find the debate that has just taken place a little amazing, some of which felt that in this context we could not at all talk about reducing district courts, because that is a very important issue affecting people's legal security. That is why I should like to thank Minister Lindström for seeing this connection and for your own initiative in your presentation of the removal of this district court network. After all, this is an operation, and it is also important, in a way, in view of the recent debate, to remember that this reform has been motivated by the government's very need for surgery. That is also why the speeches that have been made here with the praise of digitalisation seem rather empty, because the government has not really earmarked any funds for this. It's good to talk about things the way things are. It is also good to talk about this concentration because at the same time many decisions are being made that affect the vitality of the regions. This dismantling of the district court network has important implications, but also many other solutions that the government is making, and of course we should be concerned about this. But the main concern, Mr President, is that this inequality, which is caused not only by the reduction of this district court network, but also by the various groups of the population. It is quite clear that the growing distances are a greater threshold for access to services and the extra cost it inevitably incurs to a person is treating others more unjustly than others. As has already been demonstrated here, as early as 2010, the number of district courts was cut dramatically from 51 to 27. This reduction in district court rights, which is now only six years after that, is justified by cutting decisions, goes too far. I hope, Minister Lindström — you have said: you are an honest Finnish man — that you will take this concern seriously. Then a few words in Swedish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u61	Madam President! I would like to thank Minister Lindström for already highlighting these cost implications. Of course, it sounds like small savings for central government finances: around EUR 5 million. I understand that you've been put, almost could say, between the tree and the bark here. However, these calculations are now missing these increasing journeys, which the citizens then have to make, and yet the costs are likely to be reimbursed at least in part for something, and of course they have not yet been able to distinguish or analyse their cost implications. I myself would like to continue to point out in my speech that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs really did include such a unanimous addition to our opinion when we went through this government plan. We were pleased that we did not have to vote. One thing related precisely to this district court network, and we received such a statement here, and I would like to read it here: "The Committee on Legal Affairs considers it important that the development of the judicial network and the number of district courts' offices are assessed in a comprehensive manner with regard to the development prospects of the region, such as the impact of various major projects, and in particular from a customer perspective, and that the guidelines are as clear as possible and based on the criteria known in advance." Here, too, is the language issue: 'It is also important that national linguistic rights continue to be safeguarded'. I hope that, when this package of court laws, which does not yet contain this proposal for a reduction, but which we will take a position on, now comes to the Committee on Legal Affairs, then when this second line is coming to Parliament, there will still be a consensus in the Committee on Legal Affairs to defend and boldly present it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u62	Madam President! I immediately acknowledge that my competence, my area of expertise, is not enough to assess the success or failure of this proposal, so I am very much on the advice of experts. So I went through this Supreme Court statement on this reform. There were 30 comments. I therefore asked the Minister how these 30 comments have been taken into account in this proposal. I will read here a summary of the Supreme Court's statement, which is quite harsh to read: "The Supreme Court considers, on the above grounds, that the law should not be enacted in the proposed form. When the law of the Court of Justice came into force in many ways, it would significantly undermine the independence of courts and judges. Furthermore, the draft law does not take sufficient account of the specific characteristics of the different courts and of the nature of their specific tasks. As such, it would undermine the capacity of the courts to perform effectively their duties. As a result, the solutions adopted in the proposal require a thorough reassessment and weighing." I think it's a pretty significant statement. Then, in these more detailed evaluations, there is still a great deal to be done to address these new appointments to judges in different courts, as it were to assist judges. This was considered highly reprehensible because they are just as appointed judges with equal pay and similar duties, but now they are changing appointments in such a way that they have, as it were, a lower role in the court. This was considered reprehensible. Here's a very long 80-page statement. I recommend that every Member of Parliament go through this and then, in due course, when we deal with it in the Committee on Legal Affairs, this will certainly arise in the debate. I believe that there are a lot of points here that we will have to reconsider. This is not at all as simple as it looks here right now. Finally, it has taken four years to prepare, so this is not really a small matter. There's a lot of cross-administrative preparation here. Since I have repeatedly criticised this preparation and its urgency and inadequacy here, I am clearly grateful for the good preparation. However, these different statements, which have been specifically from this independent court to this reform, have been very critical and we are wise if we take them into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u63	Madam President! There are several advantages to the government's proposal for a court law. The proposed court law would clarify the law on courts as a logical whole. In many laws and regulations, the former laws would be harmonised by a new clear law. Clearness will not be achieved in the same way if the existing separate organisational laws and regulations are maintained. The clarification of legislation and the harmonisation of excessively separate laws are also part of the government's deregulation objectives. The structures of our society must become clearer and more efficient. This is also a necessary step forward for the judiciary. I would like to draw attention to those parts of this government's proposal which have the greatest impact on the practical decision-making of the judiciary and thus on any person who has to seek justice or who is to be judged by law. I have heard in this Chamber often refer to the word 'legal security', sometimes in a slightly different sense. I call for every word on legal protection to be revised in the definition of Article 21 of the Constitution. Constitutional legal protection is, above all, the right of the individual to have his case dealt with fairly and properly without undue delay. This constitutional legal certainty is something that we, as legislators, should remember and always respect first and foremost, with all the relevant legislative changes. Legal proceedings include impartiality, expertise and urgency. The trial should be good, cheap and quick. This presentation includes the intention to make the office of the chief judges fixed-term. Only recently, a few years ago, but this reform did not apply to senior judges. The Committee on the Development of the Court of Justice, which considered the time-limit of the Chief Judges, saw that the time-limit brought benefits in terms of the development and quality of the Court of Justice. There is already good experience of the periodicity of the Chambers of the Courts and the Presidents of the Chamber. However, the question of timeliness arises mainly from the perspective of independence. The present proposal seeks to strengthen the independence of the courts by means of a number of fine-tuning measures. My first impression of this temporaryity of the chief judges is that it, however, somewhat objectively undermines its independence. However, the proposal is based on the fact that independence is guaranteed when the Chief Judge has the right to remain a Judge-in-Chief post. This sounds quite understandable, so this is something that will certainly be considered in the Committee on Legal Affairs. In addition, this government proposal seeks to develop the skills of judges through training. This is an important development as Finland lags behind other EU countries in the planned training system for judges. The current system for continuing training is fragmented and does not follow the expertise of judges clearly enough. The judges should therefore have effective access to further training, taking into account the specific competence of each judge. Education should be balanced and contribute to ensuring equal quality decisions for people. The Board proposes the creation of a new judicial training commission. This is important in terms of scale and effectiveness. The Board would be responsible for planning the training of judges. It is good that the Government's proposal also seeks to improve the recruitment path and training of judges in a more modern way. When examining the draft law, the Committee on Legal Affairs should also draw attention to the fact that lower-than-judge training posts are useful to the judiciary, but, above all, to the fact that they are useful to the ordinary person who is waiting for a fair solution to his case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u64	Madam President! There are plans to create completely new positions for special prosecutors in Finland. The Prosecutor General’s Office proposes to the Ministry of Justice the establishment of 50 special prosecutors. There are no such posts in Finland yet, and I consider this proposal to be justified in this respect. Crime can't get out of hand. Prosecutors should be able to react at the same rate as the change in crime. We are already too far behind criminals. I think it is clear that if real excellence and professionalism are to be sought, specialisation must go further than it is today, for example in the case of crimes against the black economy, war crimes, drug and gang crimes or crimes against children. This is already the case with the pre-trial investigation authorities, so why not even more so in the prosecution office? However, in the training and placement of special prosecutors, we need to think carefully about what specialisation is aimed at and to respond to the real need, even if it is national. Moreover, this action must not be too limited. In the selection of these special prosecutors, it should also be borne in mind that there will be no excellence in any field without good basic skills and experience in this field. It cannot be that, for example, trafficking in human beings, sexual crimes against children or child abductions can become a public prosecutor directly from school. This is not possible in Finland at the moment. This requires a solid experience in addition to the wisdom of books. It provides a solid basis for specialisation. This is the case with many other professions. Madam President! At the turn of the year, there was also a change in the law, which allows the Witnesses to be heard more widely in court by means of a video link. This was a good legal amendment, but extending the videoconferencing to the accused is a little questionable. It should not be extended to those suspected of serious and gross crimes at least. I welcome the fact that the costs of transport and safety arrangements at least are being reduced. Security risks may also be reduced and the participation of other parties in the proceedings will be facilitated. In addition to these, the reduction of the obligation to be present would also reduce the number of cancelled sessions and the costs incurred by the State. The importance of videoconferencing will increase even further, especially now that the number of district courts will decrease in the coming years. Last year, the state paid the witnesses of the trials, for example, travel expenses, loss of earnings and daily allowances of more than EUR 2.5 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u65	Madam President! It is, in fact, very regrettable that the debate on the future district court network was too dominated in that debate. It is an important debate in itself, but when it is not included in this government proposal, then in itself we passed the subject and would have been tempted here some time to shout in the middle that Hakkila, in the matter. There are a number of extremely important issues in this draft law which should be discussed in greater depth in this referral debate. I hope that the committee and also the committees that deliver opinions will pay attention to these issues. On the whole, it is extremely important for us to have an ongoing debate on legal certainty and processing times, including the training and capacity of judges. Indeed, what is very great about this bill is that we get training posts and yet with such a fine traditional title as the Assassin. After all, these arguments state that this is a traditional title, which has long been used in the judiciary, and I myself have been able to hold this fine title for six years, so I salute this too with satisfaction. All this bill proves how long a process it is when laws are renewed. This, too, started, or was given one important impetus, 13 years ago, from the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u66	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u67	Mr President! The first thing I'm going to say is something unrelated to this government proposal. While we here in Parliament are trying to be paperless, I think it would be proper to have electric plugs on these tables, because the tablets in Parliament do not work on the same charge all day, at least with the use that my tablet is. But from this government proposal. I find it rather worrying that this much drummed dismantling of standards seems to be very intensively focused on environmental regulations and their monitoring. This particular government proposal concerns the verification of the competence of water quality meters, that is to say, an issue which is very important to human health. After all, man does not live without water and especially clean water. We have excellent drinking water in most cities in Finland, which is quite deservedly a national pride. The water quality of most lakes and rivers has also improved dramatically in my youth. Well, the current law, only two years ago, says that the water quality measurement period must be approved by the Finnish Environment Agency (Syke) when it comes to activities subject to an environmental permit, i.e. where there are limits to how many different harmful substances are allowed to enter the environment. So if I want to measure the water quality of the well in my summer cottage, I can choose a laboratory myself to take my water samples to. But if I had a mine or a factory, then the validity of the measurement period of substances contained in the wastewater or the water quality of the river or lake downstream must be officially established according to the current law, approved by the Finnish Environment Agency, or Syke. I think it is very important that the water quality of wastewaters and different water bodies below wastewater discharges is measured in a valid and reliable manner. In addition to human health, it is also important for legal protection. In the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal, the only real arguments are the dismantling of red tape highlighted by the current Government's programme and the Government's desire to reduce the number of staff of the Finnish Environment Agency. It was only in 2014 that a new Environmental Protection Act was adopted requiring this: The approval of the heart rate from those who carry out water quality measurements. This was intended to replace the approval procedure for the old Water Research Regulation. The previous government set up a working group to prepare for the practical implementation of this article of the Act, which was due from the beginning of last year to the end of May last year, but the work was suspended because in the meantime it was stated that this would be contrary to the guidelines of the Sipilä Government Programme. So the work was not interrupted because the matter itself was found to be bad. The arguments put forward by the government’s proposal argue that the quality of water studies would not be undermined even if the approval procedure were abolished because there are different certificates and accredited methods in the sector. Excuse me, but I have the courage to doubt this. The explanatory statement of the Government’s proposal also states that the research subscriber must verify the qualifications of the water researcher. This is where we put Santa as the guardian of the cabbage country, because the research subscriber has an economic interest in allowing, for example, waste water discharges from a factory or a mine within the permitted limits, and this could be very big money. Consider, for example, Winterfell and all other mines whose emissions have been headlined in recent years. Do we citizens really trust that every mining company will choose the most competent and not the most suitable to measure the quality of its waste water and the water below? The strangest reason for this proposal is that official recognition of the validity of the water quality period would even be contrary to the Constitution and EU competition law. For God's sake, even a doctor's profession can't be practiced without having completed an officially accepted degree. Or should it be enough for a bee, a health centre, or Attendo, for example, to be able to certify doctors and nurses themselves? Mr President! The dismantling of standards and the reduction of red tape are good and worthwhile in eliminating duplication of assurances and unnecessary squirms that do not affect the actual issue, such as the multiple reporting of the same information to several authorities. But when it comes to issues affecting human health, we need to be cautious about loosening standards and controls, the Swedish phrase to use'med en nypa salt'. I very much hope that it will not be noticed later that this change in the law is retaliatory in the health of the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u68	Madam President! It is a good thing that bureaucracy is being dismantled. And I would like to comment specifically on Mr Hassi's speech when he said that, for example, a certain degree of training and certain qualifications are required for the duties of a doctor, that is, of course, natural, because it is then a matter of human life and health. It is a world quite different from whether the acidity of water is something or whether there is a certain amount of particulate matter in the air. I will take a concrete example, the gold mine of Pampalo in the municipality of Ilomants. There, this study of wastewater or filter water coming from the area has been outsourced to a research institute and an entrepreneur who takes the tests completely independently at the specified times, without the entrepreneur, the Pampalon miner himself knowing anything about them, then completely neutrally report to the authorities, of course, but there will be information later on, of course, even to the entrepreneur as to how much particulate matter or heavy metals or other nitrogen or phosphorus were present. So it doesn't make any sense when it's done the way it is in this case, which is an example of the Pampalo mine. What is the government's guarantee that it will have to pay for it, that it will hire officials when the same job is done with the fact that this reliable laboratory does it, that it will charge the entrepreneur and that it will be done? I cannot understand the ideology of Mr Hassi that we should now begin to employ a huge number of officials to investigate matters. The best way is when such a reliable laboratory, which is registered and trusted and certified by the operator, does the job. That is what we must strive for. You don't need an official to supervise every matter. I understand that in health care it is different, because many things are about the life and health of a person. Of course, then certain systems must be different from those used in water acidity measurements, for example. It is difficult for me to understand that there is still a belief in this kind of authority. The most important thing is that the job is played and we are able to meet these specific legal requirements when cleaning and getting them back to nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u69	Mr President! I do not think Mr Hoskonen listened very well to my speech and apparently has not read the government's proposal either. The current law does not say that officials must measure water quality, but the current law says that the Finnish Environment Agency must ensure the competence of water quality meters. They are in themselves private operators, private companies that carry out the measurement of water quality. I am pleased that Mrs Hoskonen understands that the qualifications of a doctor must be officially established, because it is a question of human health, but also of water quality is a question of human health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u70	Madam President! Indeed, when, for example, the regulation lays down some limit values, it does not require officials to monitor it. It is self-evident that the law must be observed, and when a limit value has been set, it is sufficient for the laboratory to note it and report it to the authority. It does not require 28 officials to monitor whether it is 0,3 or 0,4. Once it has been given by decree or even by law of the authority, government or even by law, of course it must be observed and controlled by this means, as Mr Hassi suggests, belongs to the past world. Of course, all regulations and laws must be complied with, it is the responsibility of every official operator — and also of these entrepreneurs who get their bread from doing these measurements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u71	Mr President! Indeed, I would like Mr Hoskonen to at least read the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-23-ps-12.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
