ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u2	Mr President! The Government has submitted to Parliament a proposal for a law amending the Public Administration Joint Service Act. The law is supposed to come into force from the beginning of next year. The main objective of the Co-Services Act is to secure citizens' services throughout the country. The development of e-services has reduced and will continue to reduce significantly the number of visits. Moreover, individual authorities do not have the financial capacity or the need to maintain their own network of service points as extensive as in the previous years. However, careful consideration should be given to the implications of the reduction of public services for the vitality of the regions and the availability of human services. This is why the Regional Coordination Task Force is currently carrying out an overall study on the development of state jobs in different regions. This assessment will be completed in November. Joint service is a way of providing services to public administrations centrally in one place. Finland currently has... Mr President! Local government customer services are available at almost all joint service points. The service point can also offer services such as Kela, the licensing administration of the police, the Tax Administration, the Local Register Office and the TE Office. In addition to the host's or hostess's own services, services from one or two other authorities are most commonly offered at the joint service point. The joint services are usually contracted by a municipality, but the responsibility can also be exercised by another authority, although it is less common. Mr President! The aim of the draft law is to reform co-service legislation in such a way as to maintain contractual co-operation between public authorities as the basic principle of the scheme. The aim of the Government proposal is to provide the citizen with service at the service point according to their needs through four service channels. The service channels of the service point are, firstly, dealing with the service advisor, secondly, electronic services with the customer terminal, thirdly, remote services with visual contact with the authorities and fourthly, on-site contact with the incoming authority. The Joint Service Point can help in particular those who are unable or unable to handle their own services electronically. The new law also provides that it is possible to provide a common customer service other than at a fixed point of contact. New means of providing joint services could include, for example, service cars on a particular route and home visits on an appointment schedule, which could also provide support for e-services. The reform of the Joint Service Act is not the only way to support e-services. The Ministry of Finance is launching a project to develop a new approach to customer service supporting digitality through the so-called Help project. The purpose of the amendment of the Co-Services Act is to ensure cost... [President MariaLohela : I'm sorry, Minister Vehviläinen. Why don't we wait for this room to shut up for a second? There's a huge amount of different kinds of talk going on here and there. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u5	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. The aims of this bill are very good. The aim of the proposal is to promote equal access to customer service for public administrations throughout the country and to improve the efficiency of their operations. The proposal states that the proposed changes can contribute to securing the needs of those who do not know how or do not have the technical capacity to do their business solely through e-services. The operation or inaction of the social service points is one of the things that I often encounter when I talk to people living in sparsely populated areas, especially the elderly. We have a lot of people, as the Minister said, who are unable to exploit or exploit digitalisation. In other words, there is a real need for service advisers and service advice if the services are to be secured for all citizens. On the other hand, a lot of feedback also comes from the fact that this network of joint services is not appropriate, and also from the fact that the range of services provided by the joint service points is not sufficient. In fact, there is a great deal of variation between the different regions. Many service points have also dried up or dried up, partly because the costs have been too much borne by the municipalities and the municipalities have not had the opportunity or will to invest in this activity. The bill proposes a cost-sharing approach, and it would be very important to make the cost-sharing between the authorities and municipalities fairer. Municipalities should be encouraged and thus motivated to organise joint services. I very much hope that there will be an improvement in the current situation. Mr President! Unfortunately, I have not been able to read this bill line by line, I have mainly been browsing it here and I hope that this bill has been subject to sufficiently good impact assessments. I am raising this issue in this context because the evaluation council set up by the government published a very critical report on the current level of drafting and quality of legislation at the beginning of the week. I find it very worrying if, in the opinion of the evaluation council, we come to Parliament with issues or legislative proposals that are not based on 'anything' or that do not assess whether the bill benefits anyone. Mr President! Minister! So I am not talking about this very bill when I took a stand on this level and quality of the bill. But I hope that the government, and certainly the Minister of Reform in particular, will take this matter and receive feedback when drafting future reform legislative proposals seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u6	Mr President! Now that our public administration is in the midst of major turmoil — this major regional reform, the reform of social services, which, as we see in this bill, has its own reflective effects on these points of service and on the service that the state will provide in the future, and on the one hand on what the local government is doing — so the fundamental issue was raised here by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. When the Legislative Evaluation Council also took a position on the impact assessment of this social welfare reform, it was stated that 'there are no estimates of the impact of measures on the health and well-being of patients and customers', even though it is on these grounds that you are advocating this reform. When you are the Minister of Reform, the Minister of Reform, the Minister of Experiment, I would like to hear your assessment of the reasons for the government's legislation and of the kind of legislation the government has implemented. What is your view of this report?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u7	Mr President! A very important general principle emerged here, namely the preparation of legislation and the level of legislation as well as its content and the impact assessment and various assessments. Over the past year and a half, we have quite often drawn attention to the fact that not all assessments have necessarily been carried out comprehensively. But then there are also assessments: Mr Lindtman spoke of social reform, and I personally look at it, for example, from the tax point of view, where the Legislative Council took the view that, for example, the employment effects of a so-called entrepreneurial reduction are in practice highly questionable, the effects on growth are questionable. Nevertheless, legislation is being brought to Parliament, perhaps justified by the effects of employment. Have you, Minister, paid attention to such a matter in the Council of State? Especially in these times, when, for example, employment developments or social solutions or others are very big in substance, there must of course be enough of these assessments, and when they are carried out, they must also be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u8	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. This is a very important activity for the simple reason that, for example, the services of the Tax Administration — but not so much the services of Kela — have been significantly reduced and that this could bring those services closer to the people who need it and who are not those who are dealing with it services. But I am now concerned about how to determine this compensation because until now it has fallen to the point that the municipalities simply did not have the money to set these up and maintain them. It is now hoped that an agreement will then be reached that it will also be possible in practice to implement it from a cost point of view. Then the second question: what are the charges charged for the service? It is stated here that they are specifically provided for, but does the Minister have to tell us what the rate is, how it is determined?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u9	Mr President! All I am thinking about is that this is a good thing in itself, but is there now a chance for the government to complete this in such a way that it does not only look good on paper but also looks good there in practice? For example, when an elderly person needs different services, he could at the same time get these services from that same point and not have to come to different authorities on different days to take care of things. The second thing I wonder about is really this impact assessment. That's what's missing. Similarly, I would like to hear from the Minister: what do you think about this on-call regulation and its impact on the region of Ostrobothnia, for example, where this on-call service is being taken away? What will it do for business there, and what will it do for other services and the preservation of other services in the region?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u10	Madam President! It is a good thing that such service interconnection projects are being carried out and, as stated in this proposal, many public administration services have gone online, but there are still many that are not. I welcome the fact that this is a matter of particular concern to a number of people who may not know how or who do not have the technical means to do their business solely through e-services. But I would ask Minister Vehviläinen: in what way is this idea of network accessibility generally taken into account in government and public administration that these services are as simple as possible? We are becoming increasingly new users who do not necessarily have the computer skills that are so good, but, for example, a visual impairment or any other restriction that prevents or complicates the use of the Internet can often do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u11	Mr President! The Sipilä Government will certainly remain in history in that a true digital leap will be carried out in Finland during this reign. I should have done this more than ten years ago. So the question is: Are we trying to stick to the past or are we promoting the new one, and how can we make it the new one to serve people best? There have been many good speeches here which have mentioned various issues that need to be taken into account, including accessibility to information. But all in all, if you consider, for example, every electronic mailbox of a citizen, it also has its own influence on such things as the delivery of mail, the operation of the Post Office, the delivery of letters, all of this. In other words, we need to understand that there are different solutions that also cause other solutions. That is why the whole issue of digital development is a big social issue, and it must also be able to be assessed from the citizens' point of view, and I have understood that Minister Vehviläinen
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u12	Mr President! This bill, at least at the level of objectives, aims to ensure equal services for all citizens, and this is very fair for citizens. A good implementation of impact assessments is also essential for legal security. Many things have already been raised here in these debates about effectiveness, and I too would like to stress this accessibility. However, with regard to this bill, I would like to ask the Minister: how has the effectiveness of this bill been assessed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u13	Mr President! It is truly excellent that Minister Vehviläinen has vigorously been taking this issue forward. Joint service points are the only guarantee that services are made available to people all over Finland on an equal basis, including for those Internetless people. However, I would ask the Minister mainly about linking this project to a broadband project. Digital leaps cannot take place without sufficiently comprehensive broadband. Of course, this is not exactly your area of government, but it is essential that the idea of joint services can be put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u14	Mr President! This is an important project which, as the Minister is well aware, has already been launched during the last term of government as part of a larger reform. It was then that the challenge was whether the players who come to this joint service point were all genuinely committed to the economy as well. Of course, this matter is of great interest, when we talked about tax administration and so on. The second, of course, relates to the fact that there are now major reforms in relation to the TE Office Network, the TYP system, and the role of municipalities in managing long-term unemployment will be emphasised. How has the role of community service points in relation to this major transformation and the reforms taking place there been thought of so that it will become a sensible whole in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u15	Mr President! This is where I remember the old days. Between 2006 and 2007, I was at the Local Register Office in Nurmijärvi as a representative of the Local Register Office at a joint service point in Hyvinkää, and it did not work very well. At the time, electronic systems did not work, it was very difficult, and customers did not really get much service there when electronic services and connections did not work together. So there was the Tax Administration and the Local Register Office and the police. I would have asked if there were any problems with these. Have you now received a message from these 188 service points, are there any problems? And then when you're here, Section 6 of the Law. whether the service advisers are able to providein-depthsubstance advice on the subject,as this may be the case,if the application isinitiated by an error,the problem is tested that theexpertrenceto the place ofreturn or
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u16	Madam President! As we know, there are already nearly 200 joint service points in municipalities and good experience has been gained from them, and it is of course important that these joint service points are developed in such a way that services can be given to citizens and customers on an equal footing. Accessibility is particularly important and it is also important that people who do not have access to e-services can then meet people in concrete terms. But, of course, what is essential is that the administrators of the joint service point know the whole range of services offered by the repertoire. I would like to ask the Minister: what kind of training is given to these joint service providers in general, that they are able to carry out that task as well as possible, so that people are provided with services?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u17	All the responses requested have now been used. — Minister, there were enough questions to give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u18	Mr President! A lot of questions. First of all, on these aspects of impact assessment — without going into impact assessments, at least in relation to its socialities — it is quite clear that, in this further preparation, we must take careful account of what this Legislative Evaluation Council has said. That's how it's gonna be. We have bad experience at the end of the last parliamentary term that not everything can always be evaluated in advance, and that is why we also have the social media again at this stage, then, and hopefully we can move it forward. Here, in the explanatory memorandum to the government's proposal, we have these impact assessments in relation to this legislation when Mr Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen asked about this. Then, in Mr Ihalainen’s speech — including your speech — this is how this relates to these other reforms. It's very important. I want to say it in general that all these reforms, both the regional reform and the war in it and the future of the municipality and also such separate government proposals, are essentially related to each other. These include this key project: to digitise public services. If it doesn't work and it doesn't go cross-administratively, we're not gonna be able to handle this with these reforms. So reforms don't help if they're just structural reforms. They always need that policy reform, and I think it is actually more difficult to do it than just organisational reforms, that we can genuinely deliver what we promise: a service promise about how the customer will get those digital services. Then, as far as this law is concerned, it is particularly important how we can help those who are unable to use those electronic services. So, yes, all of these are particularly closely connected. What happens in practice, yes, I say so when there are a lot of municipal decision-makers here, is that the municipalities, which are more than half of these responsible owners or managers, must also make sure that they are involved in the forwarding and enforcement of this law, because there is no obligation here, but this is a contractual task. That is why I say to you, too, that you should also see that this is going to happen in your own regions. Then there is also this issue of education and competence, to which Mr Merikin pointed out that these service advisers must be able to obtain training from all of these clients, and then their host must also be in charge of ensuring that this is certainly the case. Mr Anttila asked about this funding. There is now an improvement in the current situation that this funding will take place on the basis of the cost-benefit principle. So far, since the municipalities have not taken these joint service points a bit poorly that the compensation from these state actors has been insufficient, this means that each one of them personally manages the property the services of which are provided there. But, of course, in practice, it means that we must get to that good agreement procedure and then have the negotiations together. Well, then this issue of accessibility came up in at least two speeches. After all, we already have a direct policy from the government that there is a user-oriented approach to these digital services as well. I think that user-orientedness must also include accessibility, that it is quite clear that we are looking for the different models in which we are also able to manage their own affairs in a different way. In his own speech, Mr Rossi also raised the issue of how to move forward and what impact it may have on other state actors, and I understand that this is where Posti is particularly close to your heart. I will say that this will require quite a lot of thought from us. For example, Kela and Vero together put EUR 24 million in paper mail on an annual basis. That's a lot of money. I think that for those of us who are full-scale people, it would be enough for these things to come in electronic form, which will touch us. As far as broadband is concerned, it is certainly not part of this, but it is quite clear that, if there are no broadband connections, then there must be other means of managing and the services must always be able to be secured at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u19	Mr President! Now the opposition has found a rather strange point in setting off false accusations. In other words, this proposal is one of the government's proposals that take things in the right direction. It should always be worthwhile if efforts are made to improve or improve the efficiency of the operation. It must be wondered why such a proposal to improve the efficiency of joint services has not come before. Private service providers have been able to concentrate services under the same roof. Small municipalities have many services under the same roof. Why would the state be worse or less effective? It could have come sooner, but it's a good thing that it's coming now. After all, there has been a great deal of structural change in these matters. In the past, in the past decades, personal counseling played a key role. I can give you an example of my own municipality of residence, which is now a part of Lappeenranta, which was a municipality of 10,000 inhabitants. At the time, there was an official, post office, police department, Kela, employment office, dozens of people working in customer service. This structural change is enormous and dramatic and has taken place in the same way throughout the country and must be responded to. Not all people are able to participate in digitalisation, as has been said. There is a need for personal service for older people, and in many cases younger people may also need it, complex business taxation issues as an example. The Minister has made good mention of the fact that it would be good to concentrate services at municipal level, and I can say that at least we in Lappeenranta have done this so that the services can be obtained from a one-stop shop. The customer service is centralized. Such solutions are certainly needed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u20	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä probably did not listen properly to what I or the opposition have just said here. We did not criticise this bill, but we were actually concerned about the level of assessment of the bill in general, and I think that the Minister understood this feedback quite correctly and accepted the feedback in exactly the way we wanted to give this feedback here. But here I came to the minister's answers listening to this kind of question, i.e. when we go to think about how to develop things further, so I thought, could this service point also be on wheels. Could it be that in the future there would be a service bus that would go around villages in sparsely populated areas, and that would certainly be a nearby service? Has such an option been considered in connection with this bill?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u21	Mr President! I, too, would like to ask where those ears are when the minister is speaking here and when the opposition is speaking. I understand everyone has said that the bill is very good, but we are concerned that it will not only be good on paper but will also work well in practice. There will be excellent performances here, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen just said, that it would be absolutely brilliant if this kind of service worked on wheels and the wheels would travel on different sides. Then there may also be experts or officials from various sectors on the bus, so that all matters can be handled at the same time and also to provide the kind of service that is needed in the settlements and periphery. For example, young unemployed people would receive the right kind of guidance, older people would receive the right kind of service, the kind of service they need. I think this is a bill I have to confess to. Now the government has been on the right track, and we really hope that this bill will go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u22	Madam President! It is good that this government proposal has come to the House for discussion and that we will be able to maintain these service points and develop them and also services for such people who might otherwise be excluded for long distances or for some other reason. But there is no way I can accept or understand that we are now going to discuss that health services for social welfare reform should be provided in rural municipalities in some buses or even taxis, that we should go to such light services. That is simply not acceptable. After all, when the social work started, the goal was to provide services throughout Finland cost-effectively as local services. It cannot be that we have such a procedure that people in rural areas have to run on buses. Yes, I warmly support this government proposal presented by the Minister. This is a good thing, but now we must not confuse things with the fact that social services go to buses. That is simply not possible. Yes, municipalities must have services as before.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u26	Madam President! I had my ears open and I really understood Mäkisalo-Ropponen's idea of just these service buses. After all, the minister in his presentation said the service cars and he brought home calls out, and these house calls are a pretty big, significant novelty, because these things have never been like this before that we go home. And that is what I would like to ask — of course, these come through contracts, and employers themselves, for example, have a duty to the tax office, the local register office, the local authorities, to take care of the safety at work, which we do not decide on in this way — whether there has been a debate, for example, that there should always be two people at home, for example. It is, of course, a question of safety at work. But this is a very fine reform, it has never been like this to give home services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u27	Madam President! I have to say that when thanks are not good enough, the representatives of the government parties will at least try to mishear that they will find fault with the opposition, which praises the government and the minister for their presentation. Let us hope that when we talk about buses, we will talk like the Minister used the word 'car', because since the bus driver's requirements are higher with regard to driving licences, this will keep us at a more cost-effective level. However, although Mr Hoskonen strongly rejected the extension of this to social services, I would not at all like to reject the idea that services in that sector could not be delivered better and more efficiently to those people who are no longer able to exercise their own mobility, perhaps a travelling service car will be more efficient in providing services than a taxi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u28	Then let's get back to that list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u29	Mr President! The draft government proposal based on the legal model of the consultation sought a new model for the organisation of joint customer service, which would lead to a significant expansion and harmonisation of the range of services in common customer services. The aim was for the customer to receive a wide range of public administration services from a joint customer service point. The aim was also to increase the number of shared customer service and the importance and efficiency of shared customer service as a service channel, creating the only central customer service interface for public administration services in the long term. In the preparation of the proposal, the way in which the joint service is implemented has been quite comprehensively assessed both the current collective service model based on the agreement and the customer service model based on statutory participation. A few years ago, in a draft of the consultation, the then government proposed a law on public administration's joint customer service to provide a statutory customer service system where the obligation to maintain this point of contact would have been laid down for designated municipalities. This draft government proposal has received a number of feedback in relation to the statutory model and the provision of an obligation to organise, and there was a bit of a dual approach on the part of the municipality. The proposal that the authorities that always participate in the joint customer service and the services that are always provided in the joint customer service should be defined by law, supported almost 150 contributors, and also had reservations in favour of a quite large number, 60 contributors. But then there were also opponents: 63 of them were against commentators, of which 29 were from municipalities, 12 from regional government agencies and 16 from local government. These opinions considered that the statutory model would ensure equal access to services, which the contractual system might not have been able to do the same, but that the law was found to ensure the commitment of the State authorities to joint customer service in any case. One of the general reasons for those who opposed this legality was that it would create a permanent service structure, which would then not be so good when e-services are constantly growing. Furthermore, it was considered that regions which already have their own customer service points should not be obliged by law to set up joint contact points. And, of course, there is always concern about what happens to the costs of municipalities and the state. The proposal to regulate municipalities received majority support, but the views of the municipalities were also divided. Of course, if that obligation is there in the municipalities, then the municipality is like a familiar and approachable and citizenly representative of the power, but at the same time hand-held goes through what is done with the municipal tasks and with their reduction. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities also believes that the model should provide municipalities with some possibility of starting and ending their service and, of course, reimbursement of costs. Mr President! This is a very important question: how do we ensure that all people in the country have access to customer services, and the piloting project that has been going on between 12 and 15 has produced very good results, and that is the basis for this preparation. Digitalisation, modernisation is inevitable and will bring us good services. These service cars and home services were raised in this general debate and are indeed included in this bill. They also require resources, and you must be sure that when you go to such digital services, which will certainly create new services for many areas, there will be sufficient resources for them, but then also at a time when you know that not all people are able to use digital services, you will see to it that they also have the opportunity to physically get it near. Therefore, this kind of comprehensive physical service network must be maintained always in any case, although all the time there will also be more digital and electronic service facilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u30	Madam President! A comprehensive network of joint service points can be considered as a prerequisite for the realisation of digitalisation and citizens' legal security. Electronic services in various services of central government are constantly increasing, and the structure of central government regional government is constantly changing. The number of offices and customer visits will decrease, as well as opening hours will become shorter. This change must be answered. With the transition of central government services to the network, citizens are required to act independently and to be able to handle their affairs electronically. Joint service centres offering extensive expertise to citizens are currently the responsibility of municipalities and service providers, but in the future it will also be necessary to consider in the provinces what kind of network of joint services will be built in the province. This should also be borne in mind when preparing regional legislation. At present, the network of social networking points is not fully comprehensive and so citizens are not in an equal position. In addition, the IT skills of all citizens are not at the same level, and many need at least technical support to handle their affairs. Joint service points should be built into functional entities that support citizens' ability to manage their own affairs independently. No one should be deprived of services due to the development of digitalisation. Municipal services can also be concentrated in joint service points, and it is important to consider how the range of services best serves citizens in the regions. Good groundwork in the joint service point network is an investment in the future. Expert service advisors can save visits to the Agency and guide the use of e-services, thus reducing the need for assistance in the future. Digitalisation requires citizens to be self-sufficient, and this can be supported by the correct dimensioning of services and lighter support services. The agencies themselves have a significant knowledge of what services are asked for and what kind of expertise is needed. The joint service points support citizens' independence and self-determination. That is why I would like to thank the government warmly for this proposal. Madam President! Citizens' own resources should be supported during the transition phase, and where there is a comprehensive network of agencies, there may be less need for joint services. In the future, the increase in e-services may further reduce agencies' offices, as customer visits are no longer necessary. On the other hand, there is an increasing need for support in some places. The whole and the services provided by the central government authorities must always be scaled as necessary. Municipal and urban centres play a major role in promoting digitalisation, and this development must also be supported by the state. Digitalization is the future. Madam President! At the very end of the day, I would like to express my special thanks to my ninth-grader, Mr Seena, who helped to prepare this speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u31	Madam President! First: Again I got confused when the question came that why was it only now created such legislation, and I was forced to look for this bill again, because yes it is written here that in 2007 there was a law on the organisation of joint services and in 2012 there were first separate experiments on improving the joint services. So I hope that the facts in this Chamber will be respected when we speak. The improvement of services is therefore a shared state of will for all of us, where these joint service points, which have already been tried out in 188 places, have made good progress. In other words, 188 places have already tried this — that is, the law has been in force if anyone was still unclear. It is understandable that it serves people in sparsely populated areas in particular, because in many cases the services of the state, both Kela and the police and so on, are quite far away, but I hope and believe that this law does not exclude the need for joint services in large cities, because often because of the scale of the cities, access to services is at least as challenging as in sparsely populated areas. This is why, for example, in these areas, Vantaa, Espoo, Jyväskylä, where the joint service points have been found to be good, they will hopefully continue to receive their value in the future. On the other hand, we have areas where there is no such joint service point, so I hope that this network can be revised in the future, so that citizens in Finland will be more and more securely and evenly able to access this service. Then the question of this funding: A city called Kotka has been involved in these joint service points right from the beginning, but the challenge during these years was the fact that the state withdrew and the state did not, however, get the half of the staff there, as originally agreed in the agreement, so that the cost fell more and more on the part of the municipality. I suspect that this was not the only example, but that the 188 other places have done the same, and that is why I hope that, with this improvement in this financial system, it will be evened out so that the proportion of municipalities and the state in maintaining the joint service point will remain at the level of the volume to be used, and that those who go along with it will not change their opinion and slip away in a moment, and then others will have to finance more. This regional reform was referred to when we do not yet know where, for example, some of the services will be in the future, whether they are on the part of the municipalities or regions, and I am sure that there will also be changes to it with regard to these joint service points. But hardly significantly necessarily, if they are, in any case, the services that are being provided there. It also became clear in the submission of opinions why the third sector could not be involved in the same team or team of these joint service points, and perhaps in the future it may be possible to think about it if there are service providers from third sectors that are in close contact with these other services, both municipalities and the state. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen referred to this criticism by the Council of Evaluations about how the drafting of legislation has progressed in some respects. I also checked that in the preparation of this law, an opinion has been requested from 75 different parties, but, not the last week but the week before, when we had a debate here on a very important piece of legislation, four had been asked for opinions, and they were other ministries plus Kela. Four sides, no one else. And when we have had a general preparatory instruction on the part of the state administration that the time limit for statements should be from 6 to 8 weeks, this has been the case, but in this same example there was a week for the statement. In other words, we have very uneven drafting of laws at the moment. That is not just the problem this year. This has been repeated here, but at least the situation does not seem to have improved in the light of these examples and when you look at this report from the Evaluation Council, it is quite harsh. That is why I hope that these resources can be allocated to this area of legislative drafting, and that is why I would like to say that the Minister for Reform is responsible for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u32	Mr President! Digitalisation is a good thing, and especially after everyone really knows how to use these things and when broadband has been taken care of in every corner of this country. Digitalisation, however, will never eliminate human need. It cannot be lulled to digitally treat people, people’s illnesses, or all human affairs. There is a need for that other person, a warm hand, and a need for man’s existence. The bill that is now being presented is indeed a good one, but of course not the only one of its kind, as Mr Paatero has rightly pointed out that we have, of course, had a similar law in place in the past. But the joint service points are what we need, and the point that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised is a great idea, because then we guarantee that every grandmother and every grandpa there will get that service and the service will come close. This issue of community service is something that you might want to check also in terms of what else we could do with community service and make life easier for people. Even in this situation, if we think about money, when we work together, it always saves money in a long run. It was said quite forcefully here that you cannot and health cars cannot travel across the province. I can tell you that they are already running, and they are quite satisfied with them. At the beginning of this period, I was on a committee trip to Denmark, we went there to look at such a social reform as we are doing, and they had already done so. In Denmark, there are only a few, I think, whether there were now five large hospitals. They are so huge that there are cars the size of a small car, four-rings, running along the corridors, but there is centralized knowledge and skill, and people come there when needed. But I don't know. Denmark is a small country and they have numerous health buses, and these health buses include a laboratory, a doctor and a nurse. They go around there, and there can be taken among other things heart film, there is a general practitioner’s reception, and such basic medical visits, what health centers can do when there is a cold, can do here. That's a great thing, because you don't always need that big hospital, sometimes you need a little smaller, sometimes that penicillin course is all right, but for that we need a doctor, as we know. This is a good thing that home service is being raised. That is not new in the sense that Posti, among others, has already started it with this famous mowing of grass, which is said to have gone very well. On top of that, Posti is planning, if it is not already — and I am not sure whether it has already been tried — a service that, when you export mail a long way away, it is extremely expensive to export one letter, and now, for example, you export food to the elderly on land while Post is delivering that letter. These are the things that must be worth thinking about here at long distances. We have, for example, Ostrobothnia, Kainuu, Lapland, archipelagos. They are places where people have unreasonably long journeys to services, and that is where we can help, where we can far-sightedly make decisions and see it only in two or three years' time will the savings that will come from it, but it will save in a long run. Thank you, Minister, for once again making a powerful move forward on this issue, and I believe that it will go through quite nicely in this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u33	Madam President! The bill now under discussion is part of one of Juha Sipilä's Government's major objectives, namely to digitise Finland and to bring Finnish society into the digital age. It is particularly important that this digitalisation and the breakthrough in the electronic world take place in public services, and it is certainly a good thing that in the future we healthy people of working age will have to use – or we will already have to use – officially, mainly computers, mobile devices, other electronic tools for dealing with the authorities. In my opinion, the government has managed to move forward in its own digitalization project over the past year and a half. In the spring, we discussed this so-called national service architecture, the so-called KaPaa, here in the Chamber, and at least what discussions I have had with the companies and with the field, so to speak, has become quite positive feedback. This is certainly a great thing that in the future you will find one page behind those public services, they can be used regardless of your hours. It is true, Mr President, that we must think that the administration is for man and that man is not for administration. The progress of digitalisation is very important. There must always be an opportunity to meet a person and to meet an authority, and even in this new co-service legislation there is the possibility that, if necessary, a top expert from the Tax Administration or from somewhere else might be able to come, if necessary, to find out very carefully about the matter. But the future is also for the elderly in digital services, and I would hope that perhaps a little larger cities could become locomotives here. Should every government authority have its own agency in that big city, or could it be possible to connect them and get a little momentum into this digitalisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u34	Madam President! If I have really understood this legislation correctly, it is intended to create a framework law, a contract law and certain marginal conditions and then define the assisting tasks of these authorities. There was a debate here about the fact that these offices provide very wide-ranging and in-depth expertise. Yes, but you can get it from there to contact that expert at the back of the organization. I am sure that each of us will understand if we have had dealings with these matters — and we are certainly all — that the affairs of the tax office or Kela alone, the matters of the Local Register Office or the police, administrative permits and so on are so extensive, complex and complex that surely no official can ever fully control them. I myself have been at the Local Register Office as a public notary and guardianship in matters of lobbying, and at least it took me several years to say that I am a deep expert. The question is indeed, if I have understood this correctly, that there is general advice and service advice, the receipt of applications and this type of support function, but then, when a difficult situation arises, contact the background organisation by video, telephone, electronic means, whether it is for that negotiation or for a time to be ordered for the customer. Indeed, my memories are from there — well, may have been in 2007, when I looked at this, this first law has come, and those were the years 2006-2007 I remembered before, but 2007 it probably is — when I was working for the Hyvinkää Local Register Office then. I don't even know what it's called now, when it's merged so many times, and that's where I'm now on leave. In fact, I was at a service point in Nurmijärvi, where there was a police officer, a tax agent and a Kela, and it was quite unworkable. The electronic connections didn't work, we didn't have any connections, we all had our own room, and there was always an expert to go. I guess I had a few customers over the day, and they were the kind of people who asked me how I could join the church. Well, I said the only thing you can do at the Local Register Office is leave the church. And then someone came by and said, "What's going on here?" "What's going on?" "What's going on?" "What's going on here?" Then the things that should have been taken care of I couldn't finish because I didn't have those electronic connections so I couldn't see what was going on there and I couldn't get into the customer records. That was a bad thing. But I think these things have evolved. They've got to be all right for this kind of thing to work. Similarly, there are now so many advanced video connections. For example, when I was at the Local Register Office for a long time, we connected several Local Register Offices. I was there as a supervisor, we held videoconferencing between several Local Register Offices. Everyone went — one in Porvoo, Vantaa, Espoo — to their own room, and we didn’t have to move. It speeded up everyone’s work, and it was very much a live negotiation. The only group that cannot negotiate through the video — I have allowed myself to educate, I have been involved in the work of the Memory Federation, and from there these Finnish memory experts have reminded me of that: some memory disorders include anxiety that you cannot use the video to deal with it because of the quality of your illness. It's impossible for this person. There was then talk of these service cars and house calls and whether people would listen. After all, the Minister told us in the first place that it is possible to have service cars and house calls within this joint service. Now somehow there was a feeling here that the SDP came up with the idea that we could make these service buses. Well, the service car, the service buses, then, but the Left Myllykoski now disagreed that it should not be a bus, so that this may be a little sidetracked. The government had already thought of this, and it is absolutely brilliant. In particular, these house calls are a novelty, because I certainly don’t remember that such authorities’ application services would have never been taken home. It has always been required in some way that there is a matter pending in order to make a home visit from a local register office, for example, or now there are municipal home services, but they have always required some kind of customer relationship. That I think this is completely new, that the tax office can go home and give advice, for example, to a person suffering from travel problems, or if there is someone who does not have electronic services. That's great in that sense. Of course, there are issues such as the services of a public notary, for example, in which the signature is authenticated, and the ceremony, which now requires the services of the Local Register Office, even then, that the expert be ordered there, this service adviser cannot take care of it. But it is very good that we are constantly developing this situation, that we receive services equally across Finland and in different places. I think it's fantastic. The only thing that we at least had criticisms about then and what was feared in the joint service was exactly what I told you about in that 2007 experience, that when those electronic connections didn't work, it was so frustrating to go there for a few customers. I did not ask the Minister before, when you had so many answers, whether there were now nearly 200 of them in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u35	Mr President! That's amazing. That's amazing. If we propose as an improvement that services can be brought close to a person, it would even be good enough for the Finns of Peru, if we take into account, for example, where there is a large number of adherents. In addition, I can tell Mrs Mere that the tax authorities are not allowed to provide advisory services even from a permanent office. It's off limits. If guidance is needed from the tax authority, the tax office will ask to contact consultants who will then advise. The tax authority must not come to tell you how to keep the tax return and how to do it. They're going to get that information somewhere else. And here no one has said that the tax office is going to fill out a tax return with Grandma somewhere 50 km or 250 km. This is a strange, strange misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u36	Mr President! I will now answer Mr Tolppase. In fact, he came to the hall in the middle of my speech that maybe that's why he didn't even hear what I was saying. I said that the Minister said in his presentation that it was intended that service cars and personal home visits could be used to export forms, to import forms, to provide this type of service, and then to this the SDP announced that they had come up with the idea that we could give these on the service bus. I just wanted to point out that this already includes that... — I am tired of continuing with Mr Tolppanen. You have to be there to listen to the whole speech, and then we can have a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u37	Mr President! It is quite clear that, now that we in the Committee on Administrative Affairs are dealing with this after this referral debate, we will have to go through this carefully and see if there is anything to be specified, above all something to improve. After all, the purpose of this legislation — and above all it will be in the future when we jump into the digital world — is to achieve equal territorial access to public services for all people. And it is certainly not relevant when this regional equality is implemented and we continue to pursue a fair policy of regional policy, whether it is now a bus or a car — this debate is a bit special at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u39	Madam President! The Government's proposal under discussion and the referral debate on the amendment of the law on joint public administration services has admittedly been a bit roughed up, but it is good to remember that this government's proposal is strictly in line with the Government Programme and supports digitalisation, which is one of the important tasks of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government. Digitalisation is a fact, and we can't do anything about it anymore, we just have to learn to live with it, and the better we learn to live with it, the better we'll probably do. It is important that government services are also provided in rural municipalities. After all, this debate went beyond comprehension in the sense that when it comes to government services, it is the police, the Social Insurance Institution, the Labour Administration and so on. These are joint services from central government offices, which is already available in my municipality of Ilomants, for example. This has happened when Kela has virtually withdrawn there, the employment services are very limited, from time to time. Fortunately, the police still exist, the licensing authority on the police side is working. But the joint service point works, and they must be developed and developed in such a way that at the joint service point people are advised by a person who is a specialist in his field and who knows both the employment administration, the Social Insurance Institution systems and many more that the advice is genuine and does not just share one form and the person who becomes serviceable is still equally unhappy with the one empty form. This is what it's all about, isn't it? But please, ladies and gentlemen, do not confuse these with the local services that the municipality offers. It can't provide medical services on a bus in these remote villages. It is just that health centres in those municipalities must be preserved, and now that the social welfare reform is moving forward, this should be borne in mind. At least I do not accept that, for example, the health centre of my municipality should be shut down and that the services should be provided on a bus or in a car that happens to be around somewhere from time to time. That's not just how it works. It is just that the services provided by municipalities and health centres must remain there, and I do not approve of it at all, that we should go down the road of moving services on wheels. The municipalities have moved the services over the wheels. In my municipality of residence, the home service works excellently, there are nurses visiting their customers, the food service works, the supervision works. So there is no problem, there is no need for the state to go to this side to operate, but I know that the country has almost completely withdrawn from rural areas. How would it get back there? Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how that country will suddenly come back there after it has left it with its tail between its legs. Only the police and the Border Guard are left. This is not the kind of cloud castle anyone's representative should imagine. Of course, the fact that these joint service points work and get more than this online service will require, in the future, that the fibre network be further developed throughout the country. It cannot be that we are suddenly saying that digital services operate across the country, but the broadband network is far from complete. And if anyone thinks that it is just a wireless connection that provides good services, it is that the wireless network works well when the whole country has a fibre network, because if there is no fibre network between the link stations, then digital services as wireless are not able to achieve very high speed either. So we need a broadband network based on optical fibres throughout the country, and we need to go towards it, and the government must act as a primus motor with all its strength. In my municipality of Ilomants, the fibre network was completed in August of this year, which is a good thing, and it has been said that it is possible to export these services to people, for example, through video communications. There is also a project going on in the municipality and it is being developed all the time, but there is nothing to be saved either. Yes, there must be a functional health centre in the municipality, there must be a doctor there and many other services there. They must not be replaced by any artificial system that is likely to work for a few years and then ceases. This government proposal is excellent and I support it with all my strength and I hope that these joint services will continue to be produced in this country, because all joint service points are needed in this country and the state must ensure that public administration services are available throughout the country, and precisely so that an expert can be easily reached in the municipal office or wherever he is sitting. However, if you are not represented by the authority itself, a representative of a government employment office will be present in the municipality, and if you do not know all the things in that area, then you will be able to advise you where to go. That's how this country plays. But it should not be the case that we are going to confuse the services of the state and the services of the municipalities. This herring salad, if it is caused by our own actions in this house, leads to a situation where services are taken away from rural areas, and then it is the road to rural depopulation, and that is something I do not accept.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u40	President! I am much in line with Mr Hoskonen, but I do see it a little differently. For example, in the case of municipal mergers, especially when several municipalities join together, it is good that in these old municipalities there are also such service points — that is, of course, municipal service, how the municipality organises this — but naturally it would be natural for them to be physically in the same places as these state service points, because when people deal with the authorities, then they go to familiar places where they are used to doing business. That, of course, it is clear in this respect that no social services can be organised in this way, but in the case of municipal mergers, such a service point system for municipal services is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u41	Mr President! This concept of shared service is absolutely brilliant, and at least I myself think that it doesn't matter where the customer is and where this provider is, when today we have all the video connections and audio-visualism playing and electronic signatures and so on. We should think a little more broadly that even in Pudasjärvi we could serve Helsinki very well, there is no problem with this modern technology. Perhaps I myself think a little differently than Mr Hoskonen. It's probably because I did 30 years of veterinary work myself. There was a fixed office, and I drove by car to the customer, and I was always taking care of recipes and others while driving. It's just a little bit of attitude, too. It doesn’t have to be either—or, but here it’s worth using a little of this new thinking model, that a little mixed up with these jobs. The main thing is that the services are played and people throughout Finland receive its service without excessive miles and travel. In my opinion, that is the essence of this whole idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u42	Madam President! It is clear, of course, that this concern for these services and their preservation is genuine. I agree with what the Minister said in his own presentation that, with digitalisation, no one should be excluded from the services, and this is precisely what the government proposal before us is responding to. I would also like to emphasise the importance of joint services in remote areas. I myself was the mayor of Enontekio, where we developed the joint service and the range of services in such a way that there were municipal services and there were government services, and yes, the local authorities were quite satisfied that they were able to come to one point and then get help for many problems and to deal with more things at once. I would also like to point out that, when the legislation is being prepared, it will certainly be the case that the regions will also have to consider what kind of services are being provided to the joint service there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u43	Mr President! I think that Mr Kivelä has taken a very good view of this debate and, of course, these fundamentals of Mr Hoskosen cannot be denied. It is clear that the social welfare reform, which then comes before us separately, must also safeguard social and health services for people in rural areas and in less populated areas. However, it is possible to provide central government services also in the old municipalities through a joint service point in case of mergers of municipalities. We have a lot of municipal mergers in southern Ostrobothnia, even though we are such jirres, there are quite a lot of municipal mergers. For example, in my own municipality Kauhava and, for example, in the old municipalities of Alahärma and Yliärma, there are certain government services available at a joint service point. In the city of Kurikka, which has been joined by municipalities, there is a service available at the joint service point. There is also Kela, the Tax Administration, in the new Seinäjoki region. In other words, I see in this legislation the possibility of making it easier for those mergers, just like the representative. That's what the rock said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u45	Mr President! The joint service issue is important, and the condition that the joint services across Finland work properly is, of course, that we can get the broadband and fibres required for this electronic communications to go to the ground. I think it is important that this issue should continue to move forward in a positive way even during this term of government. All public services need to be considered in the forthcoming regional government reform as well as what can be produced as a joint service, and there is already good experience of them in many municipalities. They need to be developed. The debate has highlighted this accessibility and services for people with disabilities. They are particularly important because when accessibility and disabled people are taken into account, we all have the opportunity to use and rely on them. What, then, can be moved to the wheels, and is the car a tool? At least I have come to understand that there are good experiences when different health services have been transferred onto wheels. A vote can be taken on cars, and whether it is a car or a bus, it is a matter of taste or a matter for the municipality or region to decide how extensive the services they want to transfer to rubber wheels. There was a speech just now that the tax office could not provide services directly to the customer. Either I have received the wrong service or the tax office has done wrong, but I have at least done business with the tax office, and yes they have served me there when I have asked about tax matters, and I have received a very good service from the tax authority, so I thought it was a little strange that these questions should be looked for elsewhere. I hope that other people will receive good services from the tax authorities when asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u46	Mr President! This government proposal for a law amending the law on joint public administration services is very much to be welcomed. It will allow us to continue to improve the efficiency of public authorities and, above all, the availability of customer service for public administrations. My fellow Member here, Mrs Torniainen, said earlier that when she did not get the floor at the debat, she had a good example of her own constituency of the so-called Mallu bus, which provides social services in their territory. They say you can even get a camera connection to a doctor, for example, in such smaller cases. On the other hand, we have had joint service points for a long time, which provide assistance on a number of police licensing issues. They receive applications and provide ready-made documents. Mr President! I would also like to give you a good example of my own constituency and hometown of Espoo, where there is a service market in the Big Apple shopping centre. It is such a new concept of public services, which aims to facilitate the everyday activities of residents, and where you can find a library, youth services, maternity and child health clinic, health centre, mental health and substance abuse services, Kela, the city's joint service point, HUS laboratory and imaging functions, and there is also a meeting place for culture and art.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u47	President! Now we are dealing with an extremely important issue, and it certainly surprises me that such a proposal is only being submitted now, but it is good that even now. This combines humanity and equality of citizens, because this is where people who, because of their old age or for some other reason, cannot do business electronically, and then if they live in a remote area, it is good that the services come close. In order for everything to succeed, there is also a need for innovation and the use of sound everyday reasoning and the courage to use the common sense not to retreat behind some points. Bad things have happened in many ways, how people are being pushed around. For example, employment services: There in our neighbourhood, an unemployed person with an iron risk has to go to Siilinjärvi to do business. Why could it not be that the authority would come to Rautavaara and perhaps take care of other services at the same time? Now that these rubber wheels and cars and some wonders have been brought up, it is inevitable that Pekka and Shorty will come to mind as millionaires. This is where Tarmo Manni, who represents the inventor, presents a revolutionary invention on how to improve road safety on the railways: stations are moving, but trains are still in place. Of course, none of this is about this reform, but about bringing services closer to those who need them humanely.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u48	Mr President! At the moment, there are over 180 of these joint service points, and I considered that Kela has been involved in 138, the police in 51 and the Tax Administration in 64, or not in every municipality, and I believe that this does not at all include these joint service points in the wilderness of Kihniö, so that we still have to go within 20 kilometres of its neighbourhood or so. The aim is to promote equal access to these services and to support these digital services and e-services. And, as has been said here in the opinions — these are no longer new issues, after all, these have been discussed for a few years now — everyone has welcomed this, and I have also, but it has been said that joint service is important in areas of long distances, low population density and that, alongside electronic service channels, an adequate and regionally comprehensive network of government services is needed for many years to come. At the moment, I too sometimes find it difficult to call, for example, Kela or the police or the Tax Administration, not to mention older people. This reform may take years before all the systems are intertwined, but I think it is a good thing. As you have said on the Minister's property here, the aim is to provide the customer with services according to the needs of the customer through four service channels: electronic services on the customer terminal, remote access to the authorities, contacting the service advisor, contacting the authority on the spot. I'm sure there's a lot of different ways here, no matter what these service cars are and whatever they are. This is a step in a positive direction, but, as I said, it will take time for all of these to fit together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u49	Then Minister Vehviläinen, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u50	Mr President! Thank you for this good referral. I have three more comments to make. Indeed, I say this when we are talking here about these services on wheels and also about possible home visits, that it is inside this bill and that it is new compared to the current situation. It hasn't been there now. I recall that this was put in after the consultation that it was then refined in that way. Then there is the second comment — there are no longer these representatives here, but I would like to say one more thing: My corner in my own speech is a good analysis of the consequences if legislation were to impose this on every municipality. He raised the various problems in a good way, and that is why it has been decided during the preparatory work that this will continue to be done on a contractual basis. One thing that he did not raise but which I am forced to point out is that, when we set out a number of things in the Government Programme to safeguard the finances of the municipalities, it was, among other things — when you know that the municipalities have more than 600 tasks and more than 1000 obligations — that if we put forward government proposals with a new task or obligation to the municipalities, then the state will make a 100% commitment to provide funding for it, i.e. it will be possible to implement this funding principle. This would have been a very expensive cost, too. This is not only to what the representative has said, but also to what it has done. My corner said. Then Mr Paatero had a good speech in many ways, and I would also like to say that we have had this joint service law in place for almost ten years. The preparation of this government's proposal – and I say this openly – took place towards the end of the last parliamentary term. Sometimes when we are accused of having a government doing legislative work too quickly and sometimes of being too slow, it has taken time to improve this. Elements have been brought here, for example, on how to secure these services, for example by means of wheels or by means of home visits. Then, perhaps the last of all, and I would like to inform the Administrative Committee of this work, that it is true that what the Committee on Administrative Affairs is still doing with care now, I will always listen with a good ear to the kind of feedback that comes from there, but I hope that once this has really been a long time and careful preparatory work has been carried out, this will be welcomed by Parliament and can still be achieved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u51	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u52	Madam President! With this rather short government proposal and bill, the Bank of Finland’s officials are implementing this major pension reform that has been carried out in Finland for other employees and employees. I very much welcome the fact that, where retirement age is required and raised, when people live longer and are healthier, it is important that those who work in well-paid occupations and are, so to speak, well-off in society set an example. This bill also states that withdrawals will be gradually increased to 70 years for these officials of the Bank of Finland, and it has given me such an idea, and that this idea has awakened in the past, which is why I would like to raise the issue of whether we need a society that talks about lifelong learning, a society that still seeks to keep the physical and mental capacity of people as good as possible, still imposes such upper retirement age, retirement age, that at 68 years of age or 70 years of age we need to leave a job. Could the pension system gradually change in such a way that there is a minimum retirement age, which means that you can retire if you no longer have the condition to allow it to work, but when you have those bright, brisk 70s, they could work if you feel that way, especially when it comes to expert work and mental work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u53	Madam President! I did not mean to take the floor, but I was inspired by this speech by Mr Kurvise: This is a good thing because, for example, this came up in my official work. We had a retired gentleman at the Local Register Office who wanted to do expert work specifically in the audit of guardianship interests, and after his pension he was still working quite voluntarily, but when he turned 68, we could no longer hire him. He would have liked to continue, we would have liked to keep him, but when that job is done with official responsibility, the situation was that he was forced to stop working. So I welcome this idea, Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u54	Madam President! I think that a very good debate has started here, and I quite agree that it is now necessary to think very carefully about whether we really need to set these upper ages and why, in society, we do not support a development in which a capable and willing person can continue to work in that capacity. Of course, this government proposal at hand also has a lot of good in terms of embryon humanity and justice, so that we do not have two rules in society, but people who are well-paid and in office play by the same rules as others, and that is very important to me personally at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u55	Madam Speaker! Representative Leena Meri set a very good example of these problems. This is a poverty of reason in this situation when we know that the birth rate is quite low and Finland's age structure changes, which is not always a bad thing, but it changes, it is a reality. Yes, all human resources must also be made available in working life. If we have a 71-year-old or 72-year-old who can do expert work, mental work, then it must also be possible in the public sector. In addition, much has now been said in this Chamber in the autumn on the taxation of pensioners and now that next year pensioners will also receive a fair tax reduction. On this point, I would like to mention the fact that many people who are retired work side-time and are somehow involved in working life. Their taxes are quite strict at the moment, and I think that taxation should also support the fact that if a person has retired even at 65 or 66 years of age, then if he has the energy to do a little part-time work, job work, then taxation would encourage it when, unfortunately, we also have two- and thirty-year-olds who, for example, are unable to work and raise tax revenue and raise those pension funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u56	President! Now this debate is going to run very far from the Bank of Finland, but when Finland seems to be approaching the United States in many areas of life, is this also such an area? We all remember that there the President of the Central Bank worked for a considerable age. Indeed, when a person crosses a certain age level, he does not become incapacitated, and then, on a more liberal basis, as a private entrepreneur and so on, many will continue, but there is indeed a need for common rules of play. It cannot be that some expert positions are delayed, but then some other types of tasks are tried to exert pressure on the employer’s side to not have a day more than the day when it is possible to retire for the first time. All in our society, even though pension law decisions have been taken, this debate on extending and extending careers will continue, and this is necessary in many respects. At times I have said that when people are trying to get people to work at 68 and who knows where, sometimes it feels like watching that afternoon rush and already leaving work at 14 p.m., that if people could even work at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u57	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u58	Mr President! The proposal proposes the amendments required by the Competitiveness Pact to the Guarantee Act, the Seamen's Guarantee Act and the Grey Economic Clearing House Act. The aim of the Competitiveness Pact is to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and business, increase economic growth, create new jobs, support the adjustment of public finances and promote local reconciliation through collective agreements. According to the proposal, changes would be made to the wage security laws which would be necessary to ensure sufficient legal certainty for workers so that the guarantee system would not become an obstacle to survival agreements within the meaning of the competitiveness agreement concluded by the social partners. In addition, the proposal proposes changes which would enable the guarantee authority to make use of the reports on the management of obligations produced by the Grey Financial Clearing House. The survival clause in the collective agreement allows local agreement on what is known as survival agreements, which are intended to allow employees to reduce the conditions of employment on a fixed-term basis, such as, for example, to reduce the holiday allowance or salary on a fixed-term basis or to postpone the due date of the claim. It is in everyone's interest that employees and entrepreneurs can agree on temporary changes locally. This can in many cases ensure the continuity of both the employer's activities and jobs. A survival pact becomes a means when an employer is in financial difficulties. In spite of the agreement, the company may find itself in even worse difficulties or even bankruptcy, which means that the claims on wages may not be paid. Employees may apply for their claims in the form of a guarantee, the level of which is determined by the level of pay to be applied for. Thus, for the duration of the survival agreement, a reduced salary and a normal salary would be paid for the period after the survival agreement — as a condition that the level of remuneration has been restored in a legally valid manner since the termination of the survival agreement. The central organisations of employees considered that joining a survival agreement could be a risk for the employees' possible security of their wages. The aim is to improve the employee’s willingness to survive through proposals for amendments to the Guarantee Act. Under the current law, the guarantee authority may have refused, as an abuse, the guarantee applied for by the employee if the employee has continued to work knowing that his employer is insolvent. It is obvious that the worker is aware of the difficulties in payment when agreeing a survival agreement. The changes in the proposal do not make it possible to assess the survival agreement to the detriment of the employee. The second amendment concerns the uncertainty resulting from the transfer of the due date of the employee’s claim in the search for the guarantee. The claim must be applied for as a guarantee of payment within 3 months. It is now proposed that the contract to transfer the due date of the claim also binds the guarantee if the transfer has been made in a legally valid manner and the contract has been concluded in writing or otherwise verifiable. The proposal also proposes changes which would allow the guarantee authority to obtain reports on the management of obligations drawn up by the Grey Economic Clearing House, which will reduce administrative work and improve the possibility of clarifying the ambiguities of the guarantee and of combating the informal economy. Mr President! The proposal states that it has no budgetary implications. However, it should be borne in mind that claims in the form of a guarantee have been last extended to cover working time bank claims and reasonable travel costs, but the maximum amount of the guarantee has not been increased from EUR 15200 within 15 years. This has, of course, also been criticised by the workers' organisations and they hoped that this increase would sometimes be a positive response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u59	President! A great deal has been said, and for a very long time now, right from the turn of the 80s to the 90s, from local agreement, from its development and so on. After all, there are many things that are agreed locally without a great deal of noise, and the various collective agreements make it possible to agree differently locally, and many practices have been in force for a long time, and there is no greater number of them. But on the one hand, for local reconciliation to develop, it is also a maturity test. It requires genuine agreement from the parties — agreement is agreement, not dictation. In order for the parties involved to be mature, education and a fair attitude are also needed for this, and so on. The survival pact mechanism aims to safeguard the operating conditions of the companies in crisis, i.e. the conditions for action in the event of a crisis and crisis, and this is indeed a question that requires the skills and development of reconciliation. Never can one-sided dictate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u60	Madam President! I think I know the life of an entrepreneur pretty well. I have a long personal experience with it. I have familiarised myself with work and employees from the other side of the border. In the past, old sawmills were sold to Central America, including Honduras, and I volunteered there at least a dozen times to train local sawmills and use them. I think it is essential that employers and workers are working together. The Competitiveness Pact agreed that the social partners would negotiate and take into their collective agreements the conditions under which survival agreements could be agreed locally. I would like to highlight the word "locally". I have spoken on several occasions in favour of local reconciliation. Many workplaces are already capable of local reconciliation, and I hope it will increase. The preservation of jobs and the well-being of companies is in the interests of the employee, the employer and all of us. The government is making a determined effort to fill our cash deficit. But because of the reckless behaviour of previous governments, there is still a long way to go before debt breaks. It is therefore essential to secure jobs. Mr President! We need to be able to work it out together. If the parties are unable or unwilling to agree, there is often little choice for an entrepreneur who is in difficulty. These may include layoffs, layoffs or putting a note on the hatch. This is not painting threats, but real reality in the everyday lives of many entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs do not go into such activities or even consider them for fun, but are forced to do so. Between 2010 and 2015, the State took on new debt of EUR 25 billion. Municipalities were in debt, repair debt grew, property was sold for billions of dollars. In just five years, the public sector ate like that famous crazy man from Huittinen, that is, more than you made, and the amount was not quite small, it was over EUR 40 billion. On the left, too, there is finally reason to acknowledge that the same thing cannot continue. Local reconciliation is one of the ways in which the government works if the local reconciliation keeps jobs. I don't think the opposition has the nerve to blame it either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u61	Madam President! This draft law is linked to this competitiveness agreement, which fortunately was obtained between the social partners, assisted by the government and led by the government, and this is a measure which seems to have bit and translated the Finnish course, at least as far as the positive business news of the last few weeks is concerned. Local agreement, on which a number of very good speeches have been made here, is an important issue and must indeed be a genuine agreement. I would therefore also like to raise at this forum the very good statement made by the Federation of Finnish Entrepreneurs last week. Even the Finnish Entrepreneurs, who represent Finland's small and medium-sized entrepreneurial field, the people who have created jobs in recent years and continue to create them, took the view that if local agreement expands and it is given more power and more powers, the Finnish Entrepreneurs will be prepared to give employees more power to decide business matters and they will be involved in corporate governance there. It was a very good handout from Finnish Entrepreneurs, and we need more of these concrete openings for genuine local reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u62	Madam President! Many good speeches have been made here on this subject, but one point that is quite essential has not been addressed very much. Only the negotiating parties have been mentioned here in terms of local agreement, and of course there are employees and then the company as negotiating parties, but these are our labour markets that are very rigid. On the other hand, I understand the demand of the trade union movement that employees should be represented by a shop steward, but in these micro-enterprises we have a lot of unorganized employers and also unorganized workers, and this method of negotiation in the context of local settlement, which has now been taken forward, requires the trustee, and that means that workers must also organise themselves and join the trade union. This, in my opinion, is contributing to the rigidisation of this good local culture of reconciliation. Obviously this has been politically resolved, however, so that this is now required, but perhaps in the future it should be maintained in such a way that, if possible, such a requirement could at some point be waived, and I believe that local agreement would be much easier in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u63	Mr President! That's the kind of thing you didn't say just now, that in a local contract like this, it's usually so that an entrepreneur invests in an employee. It's been estimated that it's gonna take two years for an employee to come in there and become a member of the company, and that it'll start to make a loss. Well, it's not like an entrepreneur who's going to invest... He assumes that it will sometimes become cake, even for the entrepreneur at some point. In other words, when we reach a local agreement in this way that when it comes to results, then it will also make it better for the employees, then we will also be able to raise the wage level with this. I think that the fact that we are now settling at some South Bank and Hakaniemi market in Central Finland is a long way off. There's no understanding, it ends there on Ring Three. Of course, work can be discussed well, but then doing so is a different matter. They are as far apart as the east is from the west, making and speaking. That we have learned a lot of talking here in the south, but that is very little to do then, if it is to be applied to the countryside. That is why I defend this local agreement that it must also take account of the geographical position in it, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u64	Madam President! Mr Turunen raised an important issue about that freedom of association, because according to our Constitution everyone has freedom of association and that includes, of course, being able to form an association, which now, of course, requires it to be a legal association and also to belong or not to belong to an association. The Constitutional Acts state that these same matters concern the freedom of professional association. In that sense, this is a bit of a difficult question, which means that it would then require that we should be involved in associations and organise ourselves. The government has tried to do a great deal for us in terms of employment, and I cannot bear to bear in mind, moreover, that the VAT base that has been needed for years now comes into force. I used to have a law firm, and I always had that billing based on the fact that the job was done and sometimes it was billed. It came perhaps months later — especially in situations where the customer had come to me through the customer service and these payments came from state resources — and it took a very long time. However, when I left my bills in court, I had to pay VAT to the State, even though I still had that commission from the State. This is a very positive thing which has been much praised by entrepreneurs. Similarly, this compensation for the costs of family leave is the same. There has also been criticism of the fact that it has been put out incorrectly, but I do not quite understand it either, because in any case there has been a desire for more cost compensation and yet this is the first step in the right direction, so that we can improve our employment and lower the threshold for employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u65	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u66	Madam President! This government proposal proposes amendments to the Law on Working Time on Domestic Ships required for the implementation of the IWT Directive. In general, it can be said that the legislation on working time in shipping consists of the law on working time and working time in domestic ships. The former law applies to an employee who works on a Finnish ship used for foreign transport. The Maritime Working Time Act applies even when a ship used for foreign transport travels between Finnish ports. One line in the government's proposal would concern the question of whether the provisions on maritime transport or inland waterway transport apply to work in domestic transport. To this end, it is proposed to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 1 of the Law, according to which provisions of the Law relating to inland waterway and maritime transport are to be applied on the basis of the area in which the worker is mainly employed. One problem of interpretation can be caused by the fact that an employee can work more than one ship. In this case, the main area of work for the worker will have to be considered. The main criterion also needs to be assessed when the vessel operates via the Saimaa Canal in both sea areas and Saimaa. For example, the ship can operate regularly between the coastal city and the inland port. This main criterion means that the application of the provisions on maritime transport or inland waterway transport will be determined on the basis of the area in which the vessel is used for the greater part of the time. The assessment only takes into account the time the ship is running. After all, the ship is running when it is not anchored, fastened to land or on rocks. For example, in Saimaa, the driver of a timber-towing vessel is generally subject to legislation on domestic vessels. According to this law, he has regular working hours up to 8 hours a day and up to 40 hours a week. If there are several drivers on board and the crew are on board, working time may be arranged on a regular basis for variable shifts of not more than 4 hours or 6 hours. Under certain conditions, the work can also be arranged twice a day for a variable shift. I think this has been a good way to do so, knowing that tugboats often carry wood for many days in a row, depending on the weather conditions. According to the Finnish statistics on water transport, the volume of goods transported by inland waterway was 5.39 million tonnes, of which 9.3 per cent by inland waterway in 2015. The continuation of the Saimaa Canal lease keeps the percentages quite high. Measured in person-years, the volume of domestic water traffic in Finland is about one-tenth of the volume of international water traffic, and it would be easy to increase it if there was a common desire to do so. I believe that more water transport should be encouraged, particularly in the case of wood transport. The Inland Waterway Working Time Directive applies only to inland waterway transport. Consequently, the amendments required by the Directive would not, in principle, be extended to domestic maritime transport in this government proposal. The most important change of practical importance relates to clause 3 of the annex to the Working Time Directive, according to which the maximum working time, for example, is on average 48 hours per week for the tow driver. This average is estimated over the reference period of one year. For shorter contracts of employment, the maximum working time allowed shall be calculated in proportion to the time. I'm sure it sounds a little complicated. Madam President! As we know, inland waterway transport in Finland is seasonal. In this case, the maximum working time required by the Directive in employment contracts concluded for at least the summer months poses challenges for the employer and the worker, and the enforcement of working time legislation is also challenging. It is proposed that during a period of 7 days the worker should be given a rest period of at least 84 hours instead of the current 77 hours. I believe that this is one of the most necessary changes. The changes in the Government proposal are not expected to have a major impact on cargo vessels operating through Saimaa and Saimaa Canal either. These vessels already have work to do under the rotation system. This will ensure that workers have access to adequate rest, even if the operation of the ship is uninterrupted. Under the above conditions, I welcome and support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u67	Madam President! Just for a short time for that wood transport in the watercourses. It's history. At present, factories and sawmills already have times when wood is brought there, and it is very hectic, it does not have to be in those lakes for weeks, so you can forget about that performance. Today is a different thing: when in the '70s this was still worthwhile, it simply cannot be done today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u68	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Kulmala drew attention to an important issue. Inland waterway transport, in particular for passenger transport, is of a very seasonal nature. The company should receive a profit throughout the year during the short season and, of course, it would like to make a long day both on board the ship and then on staff as much as possible of the possibilities that working time legislation allows. Now, however, the purpose of this directive is to restrict the exploitation of staff and thus also to bring road safety to water transport: by extending these rest periods by means of legislation, it will be possible to guarantee better safety in inland waterway transport. There is a need to reconcile the difficult issues: a short season in which the entrepreneur must push on and the ships must be on the move, on the one hand, with an interest in safe inland waterway transport and sufficient rest time for the staff. An important bill that I support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u69	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u70	Mr President! The government proposal proposes to amend the law on support for the abandonment of farming and the law on aid for the abandonment of farmers. As a result of the amendments to the waiver legislation proposed in the proposal, the terms of the waiver aid would remain unchanged despite the changes in the employment pension legislation that will come into force from the beginning of 2017, despite the end of the waiver scheme. It is clear from the arguments put forward by the Government that the EU Commission has approved the Finnish system of waiver aid as state aid paid entirely from national funds. According to the existing provisions of the Act on support for the abandonment of agricultural activities, no abandonment aid will be granted in the future as a result of the abandonment of agricultural activities after 2018. The basic amount of the waiver would continue to be converted into an old-age pension under the Act on the Pensions of the Farmer at the time the beneficiary reaches the age of 63. This increase in the age limit from 60 to 63 corresponds to the general objective of extending working careers and supports the savings targets of central government finances. For the above reasons, these changes are quite justified. I welcome the fact that this waiver law is being proposed for extension until the end of 2018. In particular, it is important for the vitality of rural areas and for domestic food security that rural development measures made possible by EU legislation and the Union's deadlines are fully exploited. On the other hand, this age limit is, at least in principle, a challenge in cases and situations where the host or host himself would have health and desire to continue his activity and would only want to transfer his eligible status to an external successor when he was older. Now that this surrender aid scheme, which was approved by the European Commission at the time, is phased out, this can be of considerable importance for the continuity of farms in our country. Mr President! The number of farms in Finland will fall drastically over the next few years. For example, according to the forecast of the 2022 report, more than half of the current dairy farms will be closed by 2022. The reasons for the abandonment were low profitability, high workload and bindingness, low producer price and EU requirements. I hope that this government proposal will contribute to the fact that this report is not true. Otherwise, we will drink Swedish or Estonian milk and eat Danish meat. This is a very serious matter because now we eat and drink the world’s cleanest food.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u71	Mr President! With regard to this age line, there is nothing we can do about being on the EU's leash on this issue, as in so many others. If we, the Finns of Peru, were to do so, that would certainly not be the case. But once this foolishness has gone on in time, this is just a struggle. Much of the things we are discussing in this Chamber come from faceless and anonymous officials in Brussels who know absolutely nothing about Finland and the Finns. They don't know, and I'm sure they don't care about the Finns. This is their syphilis area, where only money can be made available to the gentlemen of Brussels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u72	Mr President! Mr Kulmala, in his own speech, did well to highlight the Finnish food production and the fact that at the moment we are actually eating and producing the world's cleanest, most ethical and ecological food. All legislation relating to agriculture must be seen as a whole that can safeguard sustainable agriculture in Finland now and in the future. Here again, although much of this legislation is given at EU level, the importance of national security of supply can never be forgotten. It is extremely important that we are able to feed the people of this country, both during peace and during possible crises.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u73	Mr. Speaker! It is important that when Finnish food production is going through difficult times, Parliament and the Parliamentary plenary also support and sympathise with all those Finnish farmers and producers who are able to believe that agriculture and agribise are worthwhile in Finland in these circumstances. With regard to pensions for farmers, I think it is very important that, in agricultural policy, we should think more about the young producers, the young farmers, who, with the ears of 20 to 30, decide to continue their farm and believe in that business and business. We should be able to take into account these expanding farms in all ways, in terms of support policy, environmental legislation and town planning. Surely, in the future, the ways in which young producers who take control of those farms can cope are either to expand production or specialise in, for example, organic farming or to include tourism or nature and rural care, green care. I think it is very important that when we consider these agricultural issues here in Parliament, we have a look at these young farmers. Agriculture and Finnish rural areas must also be renewed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u74	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u75	Mr President! The Government's proposal for the Rural Development Act introduces changes to the pilot projects under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 of Mainland Finland, which would make it possible to grant development project support for investments relating to pilot projects which are not of general interest. This change is in line with the rural programme and is very important for the practical implementation of pilot projects. The aim is to support the development of new products, practices, methods and others in agriculture, forestry and small businesses in rural areas and to enable operators to test new activities or products in a real environment. I consider these pilot projects to be very good, because the rural development budget thus strengthens the vitality of rural areas and creates the conditions for diverse rural entrepreneurship and business continuity and competitive growth. I have lived almost all my life in rural areas and I want to continue to see the countryside as vibrant and diverse, including in the future. Many studies have also found that we Finns can appreciate the countryside and the cleanest food in the world produced there. This is something that we must continue to invest in, as we know it, and that we must invest especially in organic farming. In addition, I want to continue to defend Finnish, hard-working rural enterprise and to invest in its continuity. In rural matters, I trust and believe in private entrepreneurship and local actors. Housing and entrepreneurship in rural areas are not a matter of course; they require an evolving and predictable environment. They'll know them in the countryside as long as we give them a chance. There is more to the countryside than just field and forest work. In addition to primary production, various associated industries are constantly increasing their importance in the formation and employment of farms. In the winter, snowsmelling and mowings along roads in the summer bring additional income. Business activities outside the actual agriculture and forestry sector should therefore be fully taken into account when assessing the viability of the holding in the case of start-up grants and investment subsidies. Unfortunately, this is not the case at the moment. Mr President! Risk money must also be found for innovation in rural products and services. At present, it is difficult for farmers to obtain additional loans from the bank when they are expanding their activities even if the company’s balance sheet and credit data are in order. We no longer have a bank in support of business, as has been the case in the past. I would also like to see funds saved from the support cutter being channelled into the development of new services to replace imports. According to the proposal, this government proposal has no significant financial implications. Furthermore, the proposal does not alter the funding under the rural programme for the various measures. According to the proposal, the planned financing of the cooperation measure over the entire programming period would be EUR 160 million and it would be possible to implement the decisions under the proposal within the spending limits of the State. In view of the above, I fully support this government proposal in the referral debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u76	Mr President! The Act on Support for Rural Development provides for amendments to the Rural Development Programme for Mainland Finland 2014-2020. These changes would make it possible to provide development project support for investments in pilot projects which are not of a general interest nature. In particular, the changes will make it more flexible to set up pilot projects and to finance them. In accordance with the Government Programme, the aim is to create more jobs through innovation in rural activities. In many cases, even a good invention is left in a drawer in the absence of funding and many of the "Pelle Fearless" are frustrated. At the same time, some incorrect references to the agricultural law on direct EU aid will be corrected. All the commentators have supported the proposal and even received minor improvements to the draft law — good. The consultation has not been just paper recycling. Mr President! It is therefore easy to support the proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u77	Mr President! In line with the objectives of the rural programme, this proposal aims to improve the conditions for beneficiaries of development project support to carry out innovative and innovative rural enterprise projects. To this end, the law would be amended in accordance with the rural programme to enable piloting to be carried out better in accordance with the purpose of the rural programme. And, as has already been mentioned in several speeches, the projects to be supported need not be of general interest. I see this bill as very important, it is easy to support. And when we have this debate on rural development, it is good to also remember that much talked about digitalisation. Rural activities can also be digitised. In this context, I would like to highlight the recently launched Finnish Food Service of MTK, which bypasses the retail chains so that the consumer can order his food directly from the producer. In time, when various applications for the platform economy are developed to make better use of this opportunity, then we will genuinely get to the very heart of the local food, so that the consumer can order his food directly from the producer, so that the price that the producer receives will also be created in such a way that it actually manages.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u78	Mr President! The changes described in this proposal support the Government Programme’s objectives of obtaining new solutions in the bioeconomy, improving services and strengthening cooperation, among other things through experiments. The aim is also to increase the efficiency and profitability of agriculture and other primary production and to improve their sustainability through new solutions. Rural development appropriations will strengthen the vitality of rural areas. At the same time, conditions will be created for diverse entrepreneurship and competitive business growth. This objective is well supported by the Government's proposal. We Finns want to see our country’s countryside as vibrant and diverse in the future. The Finnish citizen appreciates the countryside and clean domestic food. For this reason too, we want to safeguard Finnish agricultural production and defend hard-working rural enterprise. We also trust and believe in private entrepreneurship and local actors in rural matters. Housing and entrepreneurship in rural areas require an evolving and proactive environment. Mr President! There have always been many different kinds of work done on farms. In addition to primary production, various associated industries, i.e. cross-sector industries, are constantly increasing their importance in the formation and employment of farms. Business activities outside the actual agriculture and forestry sector should be fully taken into account when assessing the viability of the holding and its pick-up of start-up grants and investment subsidies. Risk money must be found for innovation in rural products and services. The funds saved from the support cutter must be directed towards the development of new, substitute businesses. We are currently paying subsidies for forest chips coming from outside the EU, Russia. The government's task is to eliminate this unfair and many Finnish entrepreneurs, including sawmills, aid for distress. When Russia comes into the combustion plants, it gets the support. Why is this aid not provided, for example, for saws that produce bark and bites? That is how we employ, we get that money focused on our country of origin and it does not go outside the borders. The gum and bark that are now being driven from those sawmills to combustion plants at cost is half the water. It is driven 100 kilometers from A to B, and then when it lies there for a few weeks, it wets, loses its calorific value and others. This is completely insane. At the same time, Finnish subsidies are used to drive wood chips from Russia to heat centres. The government must correct this matter as soon as possible, that this support is directed at Finnish companies. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u79	Mr President! "The countryside cannot be imported." Such a slogan on the roadside has been emphasizing the importance of rural areas and stirring up sympathy for rural areas. Rural areas cannot be imported, but rural areas can be developed, and there is certainly also this government bill. We are funding pilot projects aimed at creating new innovations, inventions, in rural areas. The explanatory memorandum states that "pilot projects are projects designed to test and support the development of new products, practices, methods and technologies in agriculture, food, forestry, small rural enterprises and to enable operators to test new activities and products in a real environment" . Then I am a little puzzled when it is said here: 'The purpose of supporting pilot projects is to reform rural sectors and to increase and improve the environmental, productivity and profitability of agriculture and forestry'. This is clear and good, but then it says: 'The purpose of supporting pilot projects is not to support commercial activities, but to carry out pilot projects'. Mr President, I wonder whether it would not be important, however, that the longer-term objective should be for these new inventions, pilot projects, experiments which are generated there and which produce results to be reflected in business and entrepreneurship in rural areas. That's what this is all about, isn't it? Mr President! What is important is that, when these pilot projects and experiments are carried out, their results and their effectiveness are then assessed and gathered together so that one can learn from the experiments that they do not just remain isolated projects, pilots that do nothing good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u80	President! In securing the conditions for rural life, a and o are, on the one hand, the preservation, maintenance and strengthening of the spirit of enterprise and, on the other hand, the continuing belief in the future. Unfortunately, during the EU period, these things have been very much put to the test and, unfortunately, the guilt of the rural population has continued, as if by degrading the rural population and making the living conditions of those in the settlements worse. In rural areas as a whole, apart from associated activities and other economic activities, it is necessary to have a strong agricultural activity. However, a strong food chain cluster is quite a big thing, not only because it is a safety issue but also because it is a great thing for us to eat clean, toxic-free foods. In rural areas today, there is a real need. Rural entrepreneurs are not a homogeneous group, there are people in very different life situations. This is one good piece of legislation in itself, but we would need a more comprehensive rural policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u81	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 10/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The debate will begin, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u82	Mr. Speaker! In this Government's proposal to amend Article 19 of the Copyright Act, it is therefore a question of making lending in higher education libraries subject to a lending fee. It is a very good thing that progress is being made. After all, this is a very long-term objective for Parliament and the Committee on Culture. In spring 2015, a parliamentary working group composed of members of all parliamentary parties made a joint statement on raising the level of lending compensation. The opinion also called for quotes from educational and research libraries to be covered by the quote fee. In addition, last year, Parliament adopted a statement in connection with the budget for 2016 in which it called on the government to take measures to ensure that lending in educational and research libraries is covered by the loan compensation as soon as possible, and now this will of the Parliament is being carried out. This is a very good time to introduce an extension of the loan compensation. In fact, the State budget for 2017 proposes to increase the amount of loan compensation to EUR 15.6 million, which is EUR 6.3 million more than the level of appropriations for 2016. This brings the quotes to the Nordic level, which is therefore also the long-term objective of Parliament and the Committee on Culture. On the basis of the expert consultations held by the committee, the increase will also ensure that the increase in the number of recipients of compensation and the expansion will not reduce the compensation for the incumbents, rather on the contrary. President! In its report, the Committee on Education notes that the proposed legislative amendment puts authors of books and textbooks on an equal footing with authors of other types of literature. A lot of books are quoted from higher education libraries that are very little quoted from public libraries. In the Committee's view, the extension of the quotation fee will benefit hundreds of meagre writers. The reform will also contribute to ensuring the development of high-quality Finnish information and learning literature. Ensuring the livelihood of creative workers benefits the entire value chain: not only the authors, but also publishers, translators, printers, distributors, bookstores and libraries. The expert hearings raised concerns as to whether the library lending systems could be updated in order to implement the reform. Attention was also drawn to the fact that there are no effective methods for reporting the use of digital materials. The Committee therefore considers it important for the Ministry of Education and Culture to monitor the possible additional costs of reforming the systems for higher education libraries and the National Library, as well as the use of digital material and the possible need for reform of the legal compensation system. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Culture considers it very necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u83	Mr President! The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is happy to propose that the Government's proposal be adopted as it stands. After all, the proposal fulfils the long-term desire of the committee and Parliament as a whole to make loans from higher education libraries subject to legal compensation. In the current copyright law, that compensation is only possible for lending from public libraries in municipalities. This arrangement has been discriminatory against scientific publications and their authors. The lack of a quote fee for lending from higher education libraries has given the wrong signal to researchers and scientific communities when there is a lack of financial incentive to write scientific publications and textbooks. In Finnish society, a wide library network is central, from which lending works is free of charge for citizens. Without quotes, the remuneration of the author for his work, which benefits a wide readership, will be small. Due to the repeated demands of the Committee on Education and Culture, Parliament has in the past gradually increased lending compensations closer to the Nordic level. There is still work to be done here. This step is relevant to the libraries of the universities of science and to the authors of scientific publications and textbooks. Coherent copyright policy promotes the publishing of domestic research and combats the excessive dependence of higher education libraries on foreign literature. The bill before us is not only fair but also wise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u84	Mr President! As Mr Puumala said at the beginning of the debate, this amendment to the Copyright Act will make lending from higher education libraries subject to lending fees. This change of law is very significant from a cultural and educational point of view. The change will bring authors of books and textbooks into an equal position with other authors. Mr President! Regrettably few Finnish writers today, and on the other hand, there are also worryingly few translations of foreign-language information works. This applies particularly to science and technology, but also to other areas. And even though our Finnish language skills are internationally well compared, studying in our own mother tongue is often more effective than studying in foreign languages. In its report, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media notes that the improvement in the income of authors will benefit the whole value chain and will contribute to a high-quality domestic production of information and textbooks. Mr President! The government budget for next year will also increase lending compensation very significantly in general terms. For example, the Committee on Finance took a position on this issue in its report on this year's budget, in which it called for legal compensation to be increased to the level of the other Nordic countries during the centenary year of our country's independence and now for lending from educational and research libraries to the compensation system. As has been said here, the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy has also made similar contributions, and the government has now responded to these demands, both with this bill and with the appropriations included in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u85	President! I would like to clichely say by applying that a small step for mankind but a great step for the writers. I assume, however, that this will improve the position of authors of information is important to mankind, because only through science and through science-based decision-making will we build a more sustainable and just society. This is indeed a fine line when we are preparing for the centenary of independence. In fact, writers whose livelihoods are scarce are working with enthusiasm for doing their job, out of love for what they are dedicated to. As has been said, the efforts of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs have not been in vain. For more than a decade, this matter has been under way, and once again it must be shown that this is a very effective work: when parliamentaryly, over government — opposition breasts work for a common goal, it has effectiveness and is reacted to as quickly as possible. This was also the case with the guidelines for arms procurement. Therefore, the preparation of good decision-making involves:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u86	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 11/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate begins, Mr Puumala, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-19-ps-103.u87	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on state grants for artists, so that the suspension of the grant period would be governed by the law. Some clarifications are also proposed. The proposal is of a very technical nature in general terms, but the committee nevertheless drew attention to a number of important points. A key reform is the clarification of the provisions on the transfer of the start of the grant period and the suspension of the grant period. The reform encourages the grant recipient to accept a short-term employment even during the grant period. The committee stresses that the proposed change will make it easier to plan long-term tasks and improve the financial situation of artists in a free field, when there is no need to refuse an unexpected full-time employment in fear of losing a scholarship. However, the committee also stresses that the flexibility of the proposed arrangement is still limited by the four-month limit that seems rather rigid. President! In addition, we drew particular attention to two factors, for which we are proposing changes at the level of the section. The first is to support studies. In the Government proposal, it is proposed to delete the reference to the grant to support studies. This means, in particular, supporting education leading to a qualification. According to the committee's opinion, the amendment proposed in the proposal calls into question the granting of support for additional training not leading to a qualification, which artists need, for example, as part of the work on a new project or as part of the development and renewal of their own knowledge potential. The expert opinions received by the committee have highlighted the need for such support. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs therefore proposes to amend paragraph 1 of this section so that it reveals a ban on supporting studies or thesis related to an initial vocational qualification or a lower or higher university degree. The prohibition applies to both polytechnic and university degrees. This means that, in other respects, the grantor will have the opportunity, in accordance with the current situation, to consider supporting the study or training course proposed by the applicant. Re-allocation of grants is another issue on which we propose a change. The Government's proposal removes the mandate to re-allocate the grant by decree. The intention is to repeal the sentence in the Government Decree on Artist Grants, which states that "if the recipient of the grant dies or for any other reason is prevented from using the grant, or if the grant is cancelled, the relevant Arts Commission may redistribute the unused part of the grant as far as it considers it". According to the expert report received by the committee, this provision on the reallocation of the grant does not relate to the suspension of the grant period at the heart of the Government’s proposal and the extension of the grant period after the suspension of the decision-making powers for cases to be granted to the Arts Promotion Centre. It has been considered important in expert opinions that the regulation should continue to provide for the redistribution of the grant in such situations. The Committee on Education therefore proposes to supplement paragraph 2 so that the powers to adopt the regulation continue to cover the redistribution of the grant. In conclusion, the Committee on Education proposes that Parliament approve the government proposal with the amendments tabled by the committee.
