ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 March 2016. In the general debate, Hanna Halmemenpää Satu Hassi has suggested that the draft law contained in objection 3 be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u2	The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u3	Mr President! I shall table an amendment to Section 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u4	Mr President! I support the amendment tabled by Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u5	With the support of Mr Wallin, Mr Myllykoski has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u6	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a change in line with protest 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u7	Mr President! I support Mr Östman's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u8	With the support of Mats Nylund, Peter Östman has proposed that Article 5(1) be adopted in accordance with objection 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u9	Mr President! I shall make a motion in accordance with Rule 5, objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u10	Mr President! I support Mr Halmemenpää's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u11	Ms Halmemenpää, supported by Ms Tytti Tuppurainen, has proposed that Article 5(2) be adopted in accordance with objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u12	Mr President! I shall table an amendment along the lines set out in the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u13	Mr President! I support Mrs Myllykoski's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u14	With the support of Mr Wallin, Mr Myllykoski has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u15	Mr President! I shall table an amendment to this paragraph.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u16	Mr President! I support Mrs Myllykoski's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u17	With the support of Mr Wallin, Mr Myllykoski has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u18	Mr President! I shall make a motion in accordance with Rule 9 in the event of objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u19	Mr President! I support Mr Halmemenpää's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u20	Hanna Halmemenpää, supported by Tytti Tuppurainen, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u21	Mr President! I shall make a motion in accordance with Rule 10, object 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u22	Mr President! I support Mr Halmemenpää's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u23	Hanna Halmemenpää, supported by Tytti Tuppurainen, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u24	Mr President! I shall make a motion in accordance with Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u25	Mr President! I support this excellent amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u26	Hanna Halmemenpää, supported by Jari Myllykoski, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u27	Mr President! I shall table an amendment to section 12.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u28	Mr President! I support Mrs Myllykoski's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u29	With the support of Mr Wallin, Mr Myllykoski has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u30	Mr President! I shall make a motion in accordance with Rule 25.3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u31	Mr President! I support the amendment tabled by Mrs Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u32	Hanna Halmemenpää, supported by Jari Myllykoski, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u33	Mr President! I shall make a motion in accordance with Rule 26, objecting to Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u34	Mr President! As in the previous paragraph, I support the amendment tabled by Mrs Halmenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u35	Hanna Halmemenpää, supported by Jari Myllykoski, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u36	Mr President! I shall make a motion in accordance with Rule 39, objecting to the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u37	Mr President! I support Mrs Halmemenpää's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u38	Hanna Halmemenpää, supported by Mats Nylund, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u39	Mr President! I meant to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u40	Enter on the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u41	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u42	Mr President! The Council of Europe's Annual Report for 2015 is under discussion. The Member States of the Council of Europe must play by commonly agreed rules in respect of democratic principles and human rights. However, understanding, respecting and defending the principles of democracy, media independence, freedom of expression and human rights does not seem to be an unambiguously understood duty in European politics at the moment. It says a great deal about this current European era that the Council of Europe's agency has had a number of issues particularly highlighted: the refugee crisis, the freedom of the media or, more specifically, the flagrant attempt to restrict it, terrorism, the defence of human rights mechanisms where their activities have deteriorated, and the challenges of implementing the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. The Member States of the Council of Europe, when joining the organisation, have committed themselves to agreed rules of play in respect of both democratic principles and human rights. Understanding, respecting and defending the principles of democracy, freedom of expression, freedom of movement and human rights is certainly not an unambiguous and understood duty at the moment. The General Assembly of the Council of Europe has dealt with 83 reports during the reporting year, and this is a very large number of reports. One important indicator of democracy is the elections. The election observation of the General Assembly in its current form has been going on for more than 20 years, and this international election observation has revealed very interesting trends at the moment. On the other hand, all countries, including less democratic countries, have understood the importance of the elections that have been carried out in a technically correct manner, but on the other hand, the monitoring and observation of the Council of Europe and the various reports continue to raise concerns that behind the back of democracy there is a lot of questionable activities that are not in fact part of democracy and the rule of law. There are ten countries on the monitoring committee's watch list. For most countries, monitoring has been going on for over a decade. Mr President! A few more detailed country names. Last year the General Assembly took a position on the situation in Hungary. The General Assembly expressed its concern at the development of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Hungary and the fact that new laws, including constitutional changes, have undermined the credibility of the judicial system, undermined the functioning of the rule of law and democratic control and reduced media freedom. The General Assembly proposed amendments to the Constitutional Court and the Media Act, among other things. Despite the widespread recognition of these problems, the General Assembly decided, after the vote, not to monitor Hungary, and there were some views that this decision was not in line with the principles of the Council of Europe but rather political. The January session of this year was in a similar situation for Poland. There was no debate at plenary level due to opposition from Poles and some like-minded countries, but a hearing was held last week in the Council of Europe's political committee, to which experts had been invited on a broad scale. The Poles also wanted to stop that debate. I was there to witness and vote in favour of the debate, and this was indeed a necessary and informative debate. However, no conclusions were drawn. The Conservative Law and Justice Party, which has only been in power for six months, under the leadership of its chairman, has been pushing through the very severe weakening of the status of Polish state television, radio and information bureau journalists. In practice, these measures have meant that the dismissals and removals of critical journalists to the Law and Justice Party have taken place in state-owned media and that they have been replaced by loyal journalists to the government. According to a report by the Polish Journalist Association, by the beginning of March no fewer than 77 journalists from state-owned media had been expelled, forced to resign or transferred to other positions. The Polish Journalist Association considers these interventions in journalists' employment to be even a political clean-up. On the basis of the consultation of the Political Committee, it may be suspected that the independence of Polish commercial media is also in the danger zone. The decisions on non-state media funding are aimed at concentrating government, in practice, on the hands of the Law and Justice Party, which is where Poland has followed the example of Turkey and Hungary. Since there appear to be representatives in this Chamber who wish to take part in the debate on the report, and we have a limited time, I shall conclude my own presentation here and I hope for a lively debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u43	Mr President! Mr Guzenina drew very important attention to this issue, which is respect for democracy and, overall, independent media and the exercise of its rights. I very much welcome the fact that Finland, and Mr Guzenina, has been active in promoting and discussing this issue there at Council of Europe level. But, President-in-Office, I was forced to respond to this also because I see these worrying aspects of our domestic debate in relation to the role of the Broadcasting Company. From time to time, we have seen public speeches which, in my opinion, clearly want to drive down Yle's activities, down the funding, limit its scope of action, and I find it a little overwhelming because we are currently engaged in parliamentary work on the role of Yle, and therefore I do not think it is good that the government parties have become such speakers. This is a serious matter, all of it. I would like this parliamentary work to be given peace of work here in the home country and to be able to act in such a way as to safeguard the status of Yle.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u44	Mr President! I think that Mr Guzenina gave a very important speech when he spoke about the work of the Council of Europe and I would like to thank the Finnish delegation and those who took part in it. It does not matter, even though there are conflicts in the world and a lot of anxiety and wars outside Europe, that we also pay attention to what is happening in Poland, what is happening in Hungary. Apart, of course, from the realisation of human rights in Europe, it is important by the fact that we often market democracy, human rights and freedom of speech to the rest of the world, we want to put these things right on the Arab street, we want the Horn of Africa in order, we are concerned about the situation in Syria, and often the question comes back to us: are these things also in order in Europe? Are they being monitored if they are being followed? That is why it is very important that these Council of Europe mechanisms work and that these debates, which Mrs Guzenina also referred to in her speech, are actually held, including those critical and sometimes difficult debates.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u45	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Guzenina for her presentation and also for keeping her speech brief in order to allow time for the debate. However, I would have expected Ukraine to have been mentioned in such a brief speech. What today in Europe is the greatest threat to the human rights of Europeans and the most important right to life? It is threatened by Russia's continuing military action against Ukraine, its continuing military action, indirectly or immediately in Eastern Ukraine, to consider Crimea occupied, to create such a dangerous confrontation across Europe. Yes, I would have expected that this too would have been mentioned in this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u46	Mr President! I too agree with the thanks given to the leader of the delegation of the Council of Europe of Finland. It is very important that we take care of these common European values, and then there must also be the courage to deal with the violations that are taking place in this area. In a way, the Council of Europe is the body which unites the whole of Europe in its charter and treaties, which must be able to defend civil rights. And truly worrying developments have started in the part of Europe where we somehow thought that it has already overcome these old temptations to use undemocratic means of power. I am talking about this treatment of broadcasters and mass media, which we have seen in Hungary and Poland and also then outside the European Union in Turkey. It is very important that these issues are discussed and that we do not give up here, and here I agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u47	Mr President! The role of the Council of Europe is all the more important because a major power policy has come close to Europe, that is to say, the great Europe, close to the territory of the Council of Europe and its borders, and also because, as a result of climate change, large regions are drying up and their own food production is leaving some areas. This means more crises, more flows of refugees, and it is very important that these problems are solved together in the Council of Europe and in Europe. It can't be that every country has its own rules of play,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u48	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the General Assembly of the Council of Europe has unequivocally condemned Russia's violations in relation to the integrity of the territory of Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea to Russia and to military action in Eastern Ukraine. This report describes, among other things, human rights violations against Crimean Tatars, discrimination in the Crimean Peninsula and many other issues — including how a million people live in Ukraine as internally displaced persons and more than 500000 have fled to Russia. With some concern, I have followed the debate that Russia's sanctions are now being abandoned in the midst of all this oppression, and I would now like to ask the chairman of the delegation, Mr Guzenina, what kind of debate has been taking place in the Council of Europe on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u49	Mr President! I would also like to thank the chairman of the delegation for this, I think, a good, comprehensive overview. This freedom of the media everywhere is extremely important and it is important that the principles of justice are respected. This case of Ukraine: it is obvious that it is now important to return to the path of the Minsk Treaty, and all parties must work towards it, and it would be good to find a lasting solution to this. But, Mr President, a question arose, particularly after Mr Zyskowicz's speech: what is this position on the situation in Ukraine? The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubbhan, travelled to the United States and said there in Foreign Policy that Crimea is a lost case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u52	I will now give Mr Zyskowicz a reply. There are still a few replies that have not yet been able to say anything in this debate. I'll make an appointment for them. However, Mr Zyskowicz has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u53	Mr President! I personally believe that in the future ahead, the Crimea is a lost case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u57	Mr President! It is extremely important that the meeting of the Parliamentary Delegation of the Council of Europe and the nations of Europe remain united in defending the free world so that people have the right to express their opinions and in such a way that the nations have immunity and violence in this continent and in the rest of the world do not achieve the result to which some are actively seeking to change borders and prevent this free debate and the existence of a free society on this continent. It is good that these problems are being discussed, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is precisely the forum in which these issues must be brought up, and it must be remembered that when Europe stands up for its own right or defends its freedoms unitedly, it is also a message out of Europe from all nations. I am sure that no European country can cope with the different conflicts of these powers on its own, but when Europe is united in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u58	Mr President! Mr Viitanen raised a very important issue, the issue of parliamentary broadcasting. Broadcasting is currently the only objective means of electronic communications in this country. It is the only one who does not get its operating resources from big business. It is the only one who does not need to hear, so to speak, about the moon at the foot of which the dwelling is located. And if the broadcasting activities were to be transferred to commercial activities — I have heard that some people here have a desire to do so — we should remember that, for example, the following services would leave: services for the hearing-impaired, subtitle services and signposted services, the Swedish-speaking services, the Sámi-speaking services, the Russian-speaking, the Latin-speaking ones, and what else? There would be an awful lot of things that are not commercial, but are extremely important for freedom of expression and objective information. What politics there is, it's always different. It will be addressed by other means, not this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u59	I would also like to give the floor to the representatives of Heinäluoma, Räsänen, Lindtman, Heinonen and finally to Mr Guzenina, who opened this debate. Then we have to suspend the matter. — Representative Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u60	Mr President! I have to say that I am bound to agree with what Mr Lindtman said here, in relation to our Minister of Finance's comments on this issue in Crimea. I do not know, I do not know that any EU minister has said that Crimea is a lost case, and there really was not a word in this statement that this would be a temporary loss and that there would be a return to something else. It was therefore a deviation from the way the EU countries have dealt with this issue, and also from what has been said on behalf of Finland and from the way in which Parliament's opinions have approached it. It does leave the question of whether everything in this government is right now if the Minister of Finance takes up his own foreign policy on such a sensitive issue as this Crimea is. I wish the assembly could at least maintain some posture in this regard,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u61	Mr President! I myself waited in this good presentation for this particular discussion of the situation in Russia, because from a Finnish perspective, I think it is the most important thing and the most burning thing and we know that the situation is very tense with regard to Russia. The General Assembly has decided to maintain restrictions on Russian credentials and has denied the right to appoint rapporteurs and represent the Council of Europe in other organisations. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the resolution clearly states that this Crimea situation requires and urges Russia to withdraw the illegal annexation of Crimea, just as there are a number of other things that Russia is being called upon to do. And I myself regard that statement by the Minister for Finance as a mistake. The Finnish line must continue to be the one,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u62	Mr President! This opinion certainly did not, when I read it there again, take a position on any deadline, whether it has been lost for a week, for a year, for ten years or for how long. Mr Stubb has clearly said: the Crimea is a lost case. And indeed, he is the only minister from all the EU governments who has said so. I'm sure this will raise some questions. And now I am getting even more confused when, according to the information that has just come to light, Mr Soini, Minister for Foreign Affairs, together with other colleagues in the Nordic countries, has said that Russia must be held accountable. This raises questions as to what is the Finnish foreign policy line. If you, Mr Zyskowicz, do not have the floor, Mr Heinonen, will you be supporting the Stubb line or the Soin line?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u63	Mr President! I am not the President to Mr Zyskowicz or anyone but myself. I believe that Russia's actions must not be accepted, and, as I said in my own speech, I personally do not support those speeches which, for example – we in this House too – talk about EU sanctions and about the need to abandon them. However, I fear that, at the time of genuine peace in Eastern Ukraine, the voices in Europe would also be strengthened in the direction of lifting sanctions. I'm not in favour of it. I personally believe that this should not be the case, but that we, as the EU and all the other countries, should be united in our condemnation. The occupation of Crimea and it will not accept it in this situation and not in the future or ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u64	Finally, Mr. Guzenina. I will then give the floor to Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u65	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz criticised the fact that I did not address the question of Russia and Ukraine in that opening speech. These are big questions and deserve to be dealt with and addressed in this Chamber too, and it seems that we will be able to come back on this subject many more times. The Minsk Accord is the essence of everything. The Minsk Treaty is at the heart of everything and must be respected, but at the moment the situation is still critical and we have not reached the point where we can all breathe out of relief and say that a solution is finally being found to the situation in Ukraine. We are still a long way from this solution. Ukraine is also expected to take steps to promote its own internal reform process. A huge amount of resources have been invested in Ukraine, including the largest programme of action of the Council of Europe, and anti-corruption measures, for example, are moving far too slowly. It is feared that Ukraine will repeat those past mistakes. Ukraine has been the most corrupt country in the Council of Europe. And now it is hoped that this investment will no longer be true in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we are already going over the rules of the game that have been agreed on Friday for the duration of the sittings. In view of the great intensity of this debate, I would like to respond to the representatives of Heinäluoma and Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u67	Mr President! To this situation and to the conclusions of Ukraine, and to that end also to these sanctions: the European Union has made sanctions in two stages. In the first phase, these sanctions have been imposed in relation to the Crimea situation, and then in the second phase, a few months later, these sanctions were extended to safeguard the stability of the development of Ukraine as a whole and, in particular, to ensure that legal expenditure can be restored to Eastern Ukraine. Well, now that Minister Stubb has said that this is a lost case, then, in a sense, it comes to the extent that these things about the Crimea situation, The sanctions resulting from the annexation of the Crimea to Russia would be lifted, and that is a bit of a misconception. There is a clear growth in Europe in the idea that we should press hard to ensure that both Russia and Ukraine play their part in the Minsk Agreement and, if there are positive developments, sanctions can be lifted. But I keep it sober.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u68	And last comment, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-18-ps-27.u69	Mr President! In my opinion, not only in the government, but in the whole of Parliament, there is a very far-reaching agreement that Russia has violated all major international agreements, starting with the UN Charter and the OSCE Final Act, when it attacks Ukraine, when it takes over the Crimean Peninsula and, at least indirectly, when it continues to wage war against Ukraine in Eastern Ukraine. So I understand that we are very much in agreement on this. Similarly, this statement by Minister Soin, together with the Nordic and Baltic Foreign Ministers, on Finland's view that sanctions against Russia should not be lifted, is a completely common line in the government and, I believe, is very widely supported here in Parliament. Everyone can then make their own assessment of how realistic it would be for Russia to abandon the Crimean peninsula by peaceful means in the future in view.
