ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u2	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u3	Mr President! Every one of us is bound to grow old. Home is dear to us all, but at some point in life home is no longer a safe place for everyone to live. Then other solutions are needed. Now, however, the government has decided to weaken the care of the elderly most in need by reducing the number of nursing staff. I got a letter from North Karelia today. There a nurse with a long working experience describes her feelings in this way: "If the personnel size drops as planned by the government, let's go back to the old task-oriented work. Treated like chickens in a henhouse, for example, a certain row is given gastric soups on a given day and then taken to the shower. You can no longer talk about individuality or self-awareness." So I ask Minister Ruhula: Is this the way we guarantee valuable old age for Finnish builders? Does this sound to you like an old age in which human dignity is respected?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u4	Mr President! Creating the conditions for decent old age, supporting decent old age, is the responsibility and responsibility of our decision-makers. It is the responsibility and the hands of the Parliament, it is the responsibility and the hands of the decision-makers. Nursing is a key issue when it comes to the need for personnel, when it comes to the number of professionals who make sure that a decent life takes place in all situations. Hopefully, as many people as possible will be able to live with support for as long as possible, with services at home. We are on our way to a time when digitalisation, using different technologies, will allow us to live at home longer. No technique will ever replace a person, not even at home, and then we will always have a group of people who need that 7/24 service and support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u6	Mr President! We already have a situation where people cannot even turn off their pajamas during the day. It certainly does not solve all the problems, but it will provide security for those who most need it. The 0.4 size planned by the Board of Directors means that there is only one nurse in the 14-year-old care community on the morning or evening shift. In 2012, everyone in Parliament was concerned about the adequacy of the number of carers. The 0.5-measurement agreed at the time allows 14 people to take care of two nurses on both morning and evening shifts. And there is not much, for example, in the treatment and care of people with memory disorders. So I ask Minister Rehula in the spirit of this week of memory: has the government really lost its memory in demanding that the number of carers be reduced even further?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u7	Mr President! While the government remembers and the government knows what is at stake and what the needs of care and care in everyday life are, we must look ahead. Secondly, where did Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen begin your question: This feedback is far too much that a person does not have, a professional does not have enough time for an elderly person. But fortunately, we have a large number of care and care for the elderly, where man is for man and there is time. This is one part of the work that is being done in the field, under the leadership of the Ministry, at the moment, that the good practices, habits and practices that have good experiences, when people have time for people, the professional is able to focus on the work he has training, we are now trying to replicate that human old age is as good and as possible for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u8	Mr President! The other week I went to visit the service housing in the river, and I was able to see for myself how little time the nurses had for the elderly to take care of. We know that elderly people are becoming increasingly unfit for service housing and that is why they need more help and support. Government plans to further reduce the number of carers mean that care providers have less time for the elderly and that less can be done to stimulate or rehabilitate the elderly. So I ask the government: are you really aware of the way nurses are working today, how much time they have for the elderly, how much more time would be needed, and how does this reduction in the number of carers help?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u9	Mr President! The preparation of knowledge and the lack of knowledge has not been up to now, nor will it be in the future. It will be returned from people’s loved ones as well as from those people, women and men who have the fear of falling into the hands of others, and that consciousness is available. The best expertise available will also be utilised. Secondly, with regard to this quality recommendation, we must remember that we have an old-age service law, we have a family care law, we have a social welfare law that regulates the work that is being done there in the everyday life of elderly services. The Government has agreed that during this autumn the quality recommendation will be fully reviewed and gutted and this quality recommendation will be mirrored against the service needs that are in everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u10	Mr President! It is certainly not easy under this government to be a low-income pensioner or an old man. Yesterday I took part in the reception of members of the Pensioners' Unions' Lobby, Etu, whose message to Parliament was quite clear: the draft budget is unfair. In addition to reducing nurses, the government weakens the position of pensioners by cutting pensions, cutting medical and travel expenses and increasing the customer fees of health centres. According to Valvira, reducing the number of nurses may lead to an increase in urgency, even severe treatment of the elderly. A stressed nurse is not a good nurse. I would ask you, Minister: is it the government's intention that elderly people should be kept in an institution in the future where the nurses do not even have the time to take the necessary measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u11	Mr President! Well, at least I can correct one claim. I have no information that the government is planning to change customer fees for next year. If anyone has this information, please tell me. I don't have that kind of information. Secondly, the human everyday life of a self-determination woman and man is the goal pursued here. Of course, it is about money, it is about the euro, but equally it is about ensuring that, for example, 7/24 nursing places are properly managed, that professionals are allowed to focus on work corresponding to their own training, that things are done to enable that human age. We even have glaring examples of omissions. Every neglect is too much, but now that their background has been clarified now that I myself have been in this task,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u12	Mr President! On July 17, 2013, it was a day of grief. The then government introduced a quality recommendation during the summer holidays, completely renewed from the darkness. This government is more transparent and, as the Minister said, the quality recommendation is being renewed. It's 0.5, and you were counting it in all the dark from 0.8 to 0.5. It was said here that the nurseship does not compensate for all the problems in the care sector. It's just like this. I would like to ask the Minister when you mentioned this abuse, the treatment suffering: when are we going to start talking about the treatment suffering, and what can we do about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u13	Mr President! To this point: care is the one that needs to determine the needs of the staff. Nursing should define the need: what is the number of people trained in the profession, they help the hands that are there in everyday life to support, help, enable a decent life. Secondly, to Mr Juvosen's question: We need to be able to talk about things with the right names. One thing is also about moving forward with self-determination legislation. During the last parliamentary term, it has failed with constitutional problems, but the work has been continued during this parliamentary term and, next autumn, it will be put on a proper pace so that this Parliament will still have the legislation in which human self-determination in those situations — for example, in the case of memory sufferers — is very important — and legislation will be brought to the level it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u14	Mr President! After all, the government now has these minimum measurements in its policy, these treatment recommendations being cut, and in practice that means that the fifth is now cutting the minimum requirement for 24-hour care, where the most vulnerable people are. We have also heard from various parties in the committee, and Valvira has also raised this in the public eye, that now in these 24-hour care institutions, there are very heavy-careed patients who need a lot of care. In these places it has been found that 0.4 is quite inadequate, one nurse per 14 customers. This is what you are now lowering in these treatment recommendations. The previous government agreed that 0.5, i.e. a larger number of nurses, should be present in these, and the municipalities raised
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u15	Mr President! The answer is an assessment of care, which determines the needs of professionals. We are currently in an average situation of about 0.6, and whatever the second decimal place was. That's the day-to-day situation. We have the Old People's Services Act, we have the Social Welfare Act, we have the Family Care Act. We have legislation which, at the level of the legislation, defines the kind of care and care to be provided. Secondly, how to cope, it is also up to us that we all in this Chamber send out a message for ourselves that there are problems. I fully admit, the government admits that there are problems, but in terms of quality recommendations, care, care is the one that needs to determine the number of professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u16	Värderade Talman! Varje äldre Människa brode ha rätt till en trygg ålderdom, och det är är oerhört viktigt att regeringen skulle signalera att våra äldre är värdefulla, att vi har ett system som ser till man kan vara trygg i sin vardag. Den kommer, att man ska skära i vårdpersonalen när det gäller dygnet runt-vård från 0,5 till 0,4, är en signal som många säkert uppfattar som en mycket negativ signal, som om man inte skulle bry sig tillräckligt om de äldre. Frågan är: Har regeringen fått mycket sådan feedback att våra vårdare skulle ha för mycket tid för den äldre befolkningen?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u17	Mr President! There hasn't been any feedback that there's too much time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u18	Mr President! Safe and humane care and care for the elderly is a matter of honour for the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party. That is why the Act on Elderly Services, currently in force under the leadership of Minister Risiko, was prepared and it states that there must be a sufficient number of skilled staff in the care of the elderly. This law is in force. The problem with that quality recommendation is that it has decimals and numbers. People are different, people are not numbers or decimals. When the minister here says that care is the starting point, could it be that a national care meter would be introduced? It has been suggested, among other things, by Tehy, that there should be a national care meter that would then guide the nursing staff, both in terms of skills and quantity. This would then be the solution for us to have new quality recommendations. And now that it's Memory Week, let me remind you that the Memory Federation released yesterday the quality criteria for the treatment of memory-diseased people. I hope that the whole government and the minister will also remember those quality recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u19	Mr President! When it comes to man and each one of us is an individual, different numbers are difficult to reconcile with that everyday life. Secondly, the government has agreed that the whole quality recommendation for care for the elderly will now be passed through this autumn, and both the government and the opposition will be happy to accept the suggestions and ideas that should be written in the future in the quality recommendation so that decent and better old age is possible for as many people as it is possible, for each individual.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u20	Mr President! Good care for the elderly is a matter of human dignity for us. Many times now the minister has appealed not to go behind these numbers, but to care. Are you aware, however, that the elderly who are being treated in care facilities today are increasingly in poor condition and there are not those who are lightly treated who are balancing these ratios? The fact that the government calculates this minimum of 0.5 to 0.4 is of enormous importance. You are well aware that municipalities are short of money, many municipalities are unable to hold this nurseship above its minimum. I would have asked the Minister now about this report: Is there now going to be a comprehensive study of how all the municipalities in Finland are currently settling in? Last season, the government did its best to achieve it, and at the time, however, the carer’s size was higher, and now it seems that this dimension does not matter as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u21	Mr President! I guess I've never said it didn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u24	Mr President! With this debate, of course, we are also at the heart of the debate on the value of the welfare society: how do we take care of those who are no longer able to do so? Surely it is worth considering not only the decimal places but also the views of each of us and also the various parties on what is good care and safe old age. It is quite clear that there are very different levels of care in different types of care facilities, and it would be unfortunate if this debate gave the impression that staff were not doing the best or that things were bad everywhere. That is not the case. Already, in many places, this dimension is exceeded, and I think it is very good that the Minister's line is new and that he should go through the whole quality recommendation. Could there be more to the economy for municipalities than by reducing staff? But at the same time, I want to ask the minister: I understand that, over the parliamentary term, all parties have committed themselves to this goal after all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u25	Mr President! In my first or second reply, I said that we are in the field of using new practices, the good practices that exist, the measures where there is time to be human and the time of the trained person is available and usable for the needs of the service. This work is now at the stage and in the position that, by region, field work is starting to start and trying to get ahead with these good practices, practices, management opportunities. Secondly, these new policies have been decided by the government — and already this year, money has been added to the budget, in full next year — to invest in family care, which will not be entirely new, but it is still new to us, and it is a great opportunity. There are cookies and, for example, all of us representatives who are municipal decision-makers,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u26	Mr President! Before I came to Parliament, I collected more than 15,000 names for the right to walk in a nursing home. This had to be done, for half of them have not even been able to get out of their own residence for the last month. It is therefore extremely worrying that the government is sending a message that will further weaken the services of the elderly. First of all, reducing the number of care staff: 1 person per 14 inhabitants. In addition to this, you are undermining staff expertise, skills, removing people's right to a responsible worker. Since we are all aware of these problems, we are here to seek solutions as to how these problems can be addressed. And this, in my opinion, is only a matter of savings law. That is why I would ask the Minister: do you think you are giving the right signal about the development of elderly care through these savings laws?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u27	Mr President! One of the duties of a politician is to make a sound for those whose own voice does not otherwise belong. That is also what this debate is all about. It would be easier to have a conversation if we were even trying to stay in the reality and in the everyday life that prevails. I admit that there are problems, there are hospitals with problems, there are also blatant omissions. But the fact that you, Mr Nurminen, have had to collect 15,000 names tells us that the problems have been identified and then you have had to start collecting names when there has been no change. I think it is a big deal that these problems are being spoken out, but then the other way around, the situation is not nearly as gloomy for the staff, at least in a significant part of the care institutions as is implied.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u28	Next question, Mr Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u29	Mr President! The Finns are shocked. A person has died in Finland as a result of political violence after 67 years. In the middle of a neo-Nazi attack that led to Jimi Karttunen's death Helsinki in the middle of a bright day is a reminder to all of us that democracy and social peace must be defended. Mr Government, neo-Nazis are not just a threat to some Finns, such as immigrants, but to our entire social order. There is no room in Finland for left-wing, sexual minorities, right-wing, centre-thinking or otherwise. There is only room for neo-Nazis in Finland. Prime Minister, the whole of Finland is looking for your leadership. Finns together want to defend democracy and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u30	Mr President! Such violent extremism is reprehensible. I believe that all of us in this Chamber condemn what has happened and express our joint condolences to the families who have lost their lives here. Human dignity is indivisible. Life is a gift, and the gift of life we all have to respect in all situations. Well, what the government is doing now in this situation: Under the leadership of the Minister for the Interior, we have set out the conditions for a change in the law, where extremist movements that encourage violence could be banned or the symbols of these violent extremists could be banned. Under the leadership of the Minister for the Interior, a report and the necessary decisions will be made as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u31	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to ask for an answer to this question to register with the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u32	Mr President, ärade talman! Oron för rasism, för våldsbrott, för extremorganisationernas verksamhet, det är en oro som vi alla delar. Det är en oro som inte vidkänner några som helst partigränser. Var och en har rätt att få gå gator och torg utan att utsättas för våld, sparkar, slag, få sin fysiska integralet kränkt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u33	Mr President! I'm sure we can do a lot more together. We can also work together to reduce the confrontation between all the different issues, the bigger and the smaller ones, and that we in Finland 100 are increasingly starting to work and do things together. We can also do more together in the development of inequality. Perhaps the most important thing there is that more and more Finns should be building society in working life. We certainly also have shortcomings in legislation, and, as a result of this serious incident, legislation must also be humbly assessed as to whether there are any solutions to the shortcomings that could be better addressed. After all, as early as the spring, the government approved a programme of this kind, which we are trying to prevent radicalisation of extremism. This program has already been implemented throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u34	Mr President! The prevention of hate crime and extremist violence requires not only these necessary legislative changes and the implementation of the programme, but also adequate administrative resources. And yes, there is great concern at the moment that this budget proposal we have before us means that next year, compared to this year, the police will have more than EUR 40 million less money available to them. In practice, that means a reduction of about 250 policemen, which goes below that 7,000 - line. Now that Parliament has both that internal security report and this budget in its hands, I ask you, Prime Minister: are you ready for Parliament to correct that government budget proposal so,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u35	This question is answered by Minister of Interior Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u36	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. You raised a very important issue as a question. There must be zero tolerance for violence, racism and hate speech. The original question was about a violent extremist organization. They must be strictly banned. Then, when we talk about these resources: Here the representative also asked what we could all do. Have you noticed that when there is hate speech and this kind of speech, when there is much, we become numb to it and we are no longer waved? It is the destruction of this society. That is why we must take this together, and that requires resources, just as Mr Räsänen says. We are now reviewing these resources from a number of points of view. We will have a debate on this next Monday under the leadership of the Prime Minister, and we will look again at this situation. It's a serious place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u37	Mr President! The extremist organisations that support national socialism accept only those who meet their definition as real people. For them, human dignity is not indivisible. These groups seek to bring about a 'clean' nation by means of violence and intimidation under the guise of freedom of expression and freedom of association. All parties must now jointly reject this extremism. The parties must ensure that they do not protect in their ranks persons who sympathise with extremist movements or even participate in their activities. Prime Minister Sipilä, Minister of Interior Risikko, you are responsible for the concrete legislative measures aimed at bringing these movements together. When are we going to have concrete proposals here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u38	Mr President! During this week, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, we have now looked at these legislation together, and this week Minister Lindström came up on the list of what legislation is at present. However, I believe that we need to see whether there is any need to update them, whether there is any need for further laws and clarifications, but whether there is something to be taken up in the application and implementation procedures. All of this will be done this week. We are due to discuss this with the Prime Minister next Monday. Then we will inform you more about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u39	Mr President! I am very concerned, like my group and the whole Parliament, about this increasing activity of extremism in Finland. It is obvious to us all that everyone in this country must commit to a democratic process and common rules of play. We have a society as long as we respect each other's civil rights and the rules of our community. They will be changed by a legal process and monitored equally in accordance with the rule of law. There have been various extremisms towards our order: the extreme right, the anarchists and others. I would now particularly like to ask one who has also significantly raised its profile and visibility in Finland in recent years. It is claimed that there are about 300 people in Finland who, in one way or another, are in contact with Islamic extremists. I would like to ask the minister concerned: what is the provision for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u40	Mr President! It is good that other aspects of this debate should also be taken into account. We have a protection officer who follows a lot of things, and a lot of information is also going on about these people. However, we need to strengthen their resources, but we also need to strengthen our ability to monitor such situations, and we also need to have international exchanges of information. This Parliament will decide on intelligence legislation during this Parliament, and I would like to appeal to you in this connection already that there is a tool here for this very activity, which is what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u41	Mr President! This death has shocked all Finns, and people are now waiting for clear statements and answers from the government on how to tackle extreme right-wing violence and racism. And ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I hope that things will be spoken of in their proper names. In this case, we are talking about political violence by a violent neo-Nazi organisation, not confrontation in general, and certainly not an immigration debate. The assessment of the state of this current legislation is certainly justified, but it is possible to intervene in the activities of violent neo-Nazi organisations within the framework of current legislation. Yet nothing has been done, nothing has happened. Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Risikko: how do you intend to ensure that the authorities use the means already available to them?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u42	Mr President! It is also a very important point of view. It is intended that this legislation will now also be adopted by means of a law on whether there is a problem with implementation, whether there may be a problem with the application of these legal clauses, which already exist, and whether there is something missing. I have already negotiated this with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, and they are now producing these views on this, and we will then look at these issues together with the top officials of both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. This will certainly be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u43	Mr President! All violence, whatever the motive, is reprehensible. Any violence, whoever did it, is reprehensible. That's the way it's supposed to be. Hate speech is reprehensible. It is reprehensible, it happens face-to-face or in social media, and it is remembered that the perpetrator always has responsibility. It is our job, of course, to get the legislation in order and to condemn these acts, as everyone here has now apparently condemned, as should be done. I am glad that the Minister Risikko has been quick to address this review of legislation and policy and Minister Grahn-Laasonen has also addressed this softer approach, prevention. That's the way it's supposed to be. Here in Finland, we have had serious acts of violence in the last few years, where there has been a serious threat to people, damage to property. It must be borne in mind that this is more than just one reprehensible, regrettable act at the Station Square. I would like to ask you a few more questions about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u44	Mr President! The answer to the honourable Member's good speech and question is yes, and we are taking it very seriously. Commissioner Kolehmainen has already taken a stand on police administration, and that is certainly what is being done. I fully agree with him: such symbols must be banned. All in all, as far as this is concerned, we also need resources for this, but above all we need the information to pass and cooperate with the various authorities, but it is also important to have that early intervention. The problem at the moment is that the police can only intervene when something has already been done, and now we should get to the hate speech that is so short of violence. And the hate speech — which we have already become numb with and which we, unfortunately, quietly accept at the same time — is time to not accept.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u45	Mr President! The Finns have been shocked, and now it is very important that we all put ice in the hat and let the police and other crime prevention authorities do their job and find out what really happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u48	Mr President! Yes, just as Mr Kurvin mentioned here, we are going to sort this out and clean it up. How much will be achieved during this week and during the debate on Monday, there may be a lot of work to be done, but it is precisely the intention that we should look at this overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u49	To this question, Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u50	Mr President! This neo-Nazi organisation and the action of the extreme right, its political violence, are directed against the entire democratic society. Then, as the decision-makers of all of us and the people of Finland together, we must stand up and show that we are not silent in the face of political violence. I therefore hope that the ministers will also take part when there is a demonstration at the Citizens' Square on Saturday, in which I myself intend to take part, in favour of our united defence of peace, equality and democracy. It is important to show that we are, together with the citizens and the citizens' movements, defending an equal society. Mr President! I would also like to point out, as Minister Risikko well pointed out, that the action of the extreme right and political violence is the most serious form of what has happened in society, but it has been made possible by increased hate speech and space for it. I have heard increasing reports that people who speak Swedish have been bullied. Those adopted in Finland who look like other countries have been bullied even though they have lived in Finland all their lives. [Second Vice-President Arthur Satonen: Question, thank you.]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u53	Mr President! Representative Niinistö brought up the upcoming Saturday event: yes, we meet there. But then to this question itself: I don't think I've ever put acts of violence into any different categories at any time. For me, violence is violence, and it must be banned, and it must not be accepted in any form whatsoever.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u54	Mr President! A very serious subject, and yes, there seems to be serious signs in our society that we lack the ability to put ourselves in the position of other people and accept diversity. At the Ministry of Education and Culture as early as May, we reacted by launching an action programme called Meaningful in Finland, and it can be found on our website. It is a programme to prevent hate speech and racism and promote social participation and inclusion, and contains ten concrete measures that can be taken forward in the sector. It includes teacher training and important preventive work in schools. Libraries, youth work, culture, sport and interreligious dialogue are all involved in this programme. I hope and encourage everyone to be involved in the implementation of this programme and I am pleased that this programme has also been taken over by NGOs and civil society in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u55	Next question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u56	Mr President! "Strengthening and the good people must shoulder greater That is what Prime Minister Sipilä said when the government programme was announced. Through this statement, I also looked at the government's new budget proposal. However, there was no income-sharing impact assessment — either it was of no interest to the government or it was simply not dared to do so. We ourselves had to make calculations on the income distribution effects in the Parliamentary Information Service. These effects are hard to read. The government gives the most to those who earn more than 7,000 euros a month and, on the other hand, to the most high-income entrepreneurs. 20% of the low incomes will fall next year. The unemployed, the majority of pensioners, are paid by the students at the same time as the government gives to the most high incomes. Mr Sipilä, is this fair and fair? Do you think this is a greater responsibility for the strong and the well-off?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u57	Mr President! What are we doing now? We are saving the welfare society and in the long run making sure that we are able to care for those who cannot take care of themselves. In the meantime, we have had to perform difficult and painful operations, as we have acknowledged. At the same time, we are making cuts, and at the same time we are constantly working to get that employment rate going, 100,000 more unemployed people to work, and then we are doing a great deal of major reforms to respond to that sustainability gap. If we cannot do all of this, then we have a huge task ahead of us, which is not a nice job — then we are only talking about cuts. We need to increase the amount of work, more people to bear that common responsibility and backpack.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u58	I would now ask those representatives to press the V button and stand up who want to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u59	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you said you were saving the welfare society. My question is: how does saving a welfare society fit in with the fact that for those with the greatest income, you give the most, and for those with the lowest income, you take away? Would that not mean that we, who are doing well, bear greater responsibility and take care of the most vulnerable in difficult times? You, Mr Sipilä, are doing exactly the opposite with this budget proposal: you are giving to those who have, and you are taking away from those who do not really have anything to give.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u60	Mr President! Apparently, he's a representative. Arhinmäki refers to entrepreneurship reduction, of which
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u61	Mr President! Apparently, that figure of yours is still missing the 30 million that the government has decided to allocate to the most low incomes. We have to apply for a model because the most low incomes do not pay much tax, and we are looking for a model that is best targeted at the most vulnerable. With regard to this whole issue of poverty prevention, helping the disadvantaged, the most important way is to help as many unemployed people as possible to work. This is a central issue of the government's line, and when we look at where the greatest potential lies, it is on the domestic market, in domestic demand — that is why we supported the competitiveness pact with a reduction in labour taxation for all income categories. Here it turned out that, if it had been included in a purely competitive agreement, these tax reductions would only have been directed at the high-income ones. The government allocated its own to the low and middle incomes, and this percentage figure was created for all. We've removed this lightening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u62	Mr President! Much has been said about the income distribution effects of government decisions. Could you think that, before Parliament has completed its budget, you yourself would assess the revenue-sharing effect of the budget, where we would see how savings and tax cuts affect people? I fully agree that employment is the key objective of saving Finland, but we are also in the process of creating a category of working poor who are increasingly dependent on income support and other income transfers because of the lack of support for that work. This problem too should be looked through, because then work does not save people from poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u63	Mr President! Yes, VM also assesses these income distribution effects. This budget was completed only a few years ago, and it is a big job to go through it. We want to develop these impact assessments. We must also find resources and develop this, and I think it is absolutely essential in the future. However, I would like to continue with the emphasis on employment and domestic demand, the fact that there is still another element of taxation, which we have already used, and that is that we have already allocated 450 million to the reduction in earnings on small and medium-sized earnings, which also helps those on low incomes and encourages them to take up work — more of a small income — and thus help their position. Yes, the government does a lot, and the most important thing is employment. We have a lot of ways we're going to drive in right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u64	Mr President! The left hand of the government does not know what the right hand is doing, and that is because you do not judge the effects of your decisions until you give them to Parliament. In other words, when you fail to carry out impact assessments in advance, you will, for example, act against your own employment objective. We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have heard a number of experts on these decisions, which the government is now proposing in its budget, and many experts have pointed out that when you cut the lowest benefits in various ways, you are pushing people towards unemployment security, basic security and so on. When you do this, you push these people into this kind of trap, from which it is very difficult to get out. That trap is like a splatter, as many poverty researchers have said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u65	Mr President! It is precisely the opposite of what the government is doing: trying to remove these traps, for example, because these tax cuts of EUR 1 billion, which have been made, are aimed at people with low and medium incomes and pensioners. 170 million is the total for those measures that encourage entrepreneurship. But that is the original question of Mr Arhinmäki. I must admit that on one point I am disappointed: the way those who are doing the best have volunteered to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u66	Mr President! Of course, the fact is that the biggest income-sharing effect and the gap is between the unemployed and the employed. If we get jobs in this country, in a certain way things will go much better for all, including those without jobs. Fortunately, much has been said about employment and entrepreneurship in recent days. It is very good that we have received paid VAT, which will then make life easier for the entrepreneur and perhaps employment. It is very good that we have received an entrepreneurial reduction. But I'm going to ask you, Prime Minister, one more question. One major challenge now is to increase entrepreneurship, and the social security of the entrepreneur and its development could be, for example, an example of the situation of a family member of the entrepreneur. When an entrepreneur is forced to reduce his or her workforce, it may be that there are family members in paid employment, but they are interpreted as entrepreneurs and then completely excluded from unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u67	Mr President! It's a very important observation. First of all, almost 80 per cent of these self-employed persons to whom this entrepreneurial deduction comes will have a profit of less than EUR 30000 per year. So they're low incomes, under middle income. In addition, we have here such troublesome loopholes that are specific to family members. For example, their unemployment security and basic security have often been questioned by whether they are in practice entrepreneurs or are classified as entrepreneurs. Now that we are doing studies on these employment measures by mid-term debate, these issues are also on our agendas to be clarified by the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u68	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, it is the case that your government differentiates Finnish society, increases income disparities and increases poverty. So here's the thing. You have just said that you cannot do anything about these people with good income. Prime Minister, there is one good way. That's taxation. Use it. You can, through taxation, balance the income differentials of Finnish society, you can justify the development of inequality, you can reduce poverty in the right way by correcting taxation. Why don't you, Prime Minister, do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u69	Mr President! We have continued the solidarity tax on high incomes, reduced its threshold, and we have also increased the tax on capital. We have taken action there, but the measures to increase the tax rate will be as it was last season: 100,000 more unemployed people. Raising the tax rate will feed on the competitiveness of Finnish companies and employees, and that is a spiral that we simply need to get out of now. By raising the tax rate we will not be able to get Finland in order; we need more work, more workers, more taxpayers. This is a government strategy, not an increase in tax rates.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u70	One more reply, which will be received by the original author, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u71	Mr President! You, Prime Minister Sipilä, are mixing things up. You were talking about entrepreneurship reduction, we were talking about the impact of the entire budget. When we were in the government, the income distribution effects of all decisions were examined in advance — and it is not very difficult because the Parliamentary Information Service has already been able to find out, the Ministry of Finance is always able to find out. We had a Gini coefficient in the table for each decision. So the question is that you do not even want to deal with this problem because you have not resolved it. The countries with the lowest income disparities have the highest level of employment. Differences in income will increase unemployment. Now the question is: why are you giving more than 7,000 euros a month to those making the most money and taking away the low-income ones? From the point of view of employment, the low-income ones use:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u72	Mr President! So, of course, we see how tax reductions, for example, affect the various income categories, and they have been very carefully examined. What I referred to is, as I said, that we need to develop these income-sharing impact assessment processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u75	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 21 September 2016. The debate will continue at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the agenda from 7 to 25. on the subject. The debate will continue. Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u76	Mr President! 14.6 billion — 1.5 billion more than this year — are due to a number of structural changes in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The effects of the competitiveness agreement are reflected in that amount. After all, next year the basic part of the income support will be transferred to the Social Insurance Institution, the student housing allowance will be transferred to the general housing allowance, the partial transfer of the wage subsidy and start-up grant funding from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will take place. Minister Mattila will go through his share of these tomorrow. In the very list of items which are larger or smaller but are large for the group or persons concerned: Firstly, we are committed to ratifying the Istanbul Treaty. Compared to this year, EUR 2 million will be added for more asylums next year. This has been cumulatively committed throughout the spending limits period, i.e. 2+2+2. The second point is that EUR 20 million for the rehabilitation of veterans for the next year is entirely new money, and what is essential is that the limit on open rehabilitation and institutional rehabilitation should be eliminated so that each veteran entitled to the targeted services of veterans can obtain the service that is best in his life. A few people, a male, have been disabled by the so-called 15% disadvantage rate, and now that the percentage changes from 15 to 10, many people receive home services, unlike this year. This is a little big thing. The total budget for health promotion is 28 million for the vaccination programme. EUR 4.2 million will be added for the varicella vaccine to be included in the vaccination programme. There is a total of 11 million for agricultural leave, in particular for farmers to be able to cope better. Mr President! The Government’s key projects play a major role in how the budget will be sufficient in the future. The programme for the change of child and family services, the development of home care for the elderly and the strengthening of family care for all ages, and the promotion of well-being and health will be on the way in the next year to the footing and field phase. Having been in this house for too long, I say that many times in this Chamber there has been talk of good practice and their use and now we are looking for new ways, new operating models, new leadership, cooperation between different experts. The field phase of this work, both for children and families and for the elderly, will be on the list next year. New actions, new service concepts, increasing customer orientation, will be launched. Then, Mr President, the subject that has spoken and will be addressed is the change in social welfare and health care. As far as the timetable is concerned, the aim is to have a new legislation on the organisation of social and health care in Parliament, which is the best time in the consultation round, with the freedom of choice and the form of the new financing model still in the course of this year's consultation and next year's spring in Parliament, so that the whole of the whole package of social services is in Parliament's deliberations at the same time. Within five minutes, I will answer question 3 billion: It has been interesting to follow up the public debate and the allegations of secrecy on the subject where you would think that all parties and parliamentarians have a common view that by continuing with the current process it will not succeed. We are folding EUR 3 billion in cost development. The preparations that the government has had have been exceptionally open to what has sometimes been in the past — whether it should have been hand-directed or home-schooled. But I will come back to this subject in greater depth at the time of the debate. Essential
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u77	All right, now it's a chance to go to the debatt, and I'm gonna ask the debatables to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u78	Mr President! This debate on elderly services has already taken place during Question Time, but I will come back to it because this budget has now clearly stated that it will be cut back on the measurement of care providers for the elderly. A reduction of EUR 25 million in municipal expenditure has been included, and this will be done in such a way that these recommendations are weakened — the recommendations that were made together a couple of years ago, and they have now confirmed the size of the carers. My concern relates to the fact that, when the quality of older workers and services for the elderly should be improved and the attractiveness of future occupations and jobs also increased, this does not necessarily strengthen it at the moment. When the Minister himself raised this 3 billion savings here, it would of course be good to hear how this 3 billion will now be made. The public has detailed lists of where they will be taken and saved, and when this social and health care sector is, however, staff-intensive,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u80	Mr President! Indeed, during the oral Question Time this debate on the savings in care for the elderly has already begun, and this equation does cause anxiety when you look at the amount of savings that have been baked into this review of quality recommendations. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we were informed on the part of the STM officials that it is estimated that municipal expenditure will decrease by a total of EUR 52.4 million when this Act on services for the elderly is reviewed. I would now have asked the Minister when, during that oral Question Time, you stressed very strongly that there are trained staff in care for the elderly and that quality is ensured: Is it true now, and do you intend to reduce quality in such a way as to remove from the law aspects of staff competence, i.e. to reduce the law in that way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u81	Mr President! The administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is undergoing a reform of the century, perhaps even greater. Two questions arise, and the first is this: now that clearly private service production and public service production are being brought into competition in the same market, how do you now ensure that the competitiveness of the public sector is safeguarded in a situation where the contributions of a municipal pension institution are 6 percentage points higher than the private sector's employers' contributions to pension insurance? The second question relates to the concentration of certain surgeries in hospitals that are 24/7 on standby duty. It will then have spillover effects on the functioning of other hospitals. I hope that you will find this out, because I do not think that the purpose of this reform is to do something about cutting out medical services from those areas that do not have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u82	Mr President! I am also a little surprised, like Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, by this review of the quality recommendations for good ageing services. Now, with this revision, there will be a real reduction in the number of carers and the training of carers will no longer matter in the future. Is this really the check-up? Personally, I think that if quality recommendations are checked, something better will come, but this does not seem to be the case. You spoke, Minister, also during Question Time about that care, but unfortunately I am afraid that it will be a secondary issue: when the finances of the municipalities are tight, then we will start by reducing the number of staff in care despite care. At the end of the day, Minister, I will ask you: How, then, is this home care now being developed? When institutional care is systematically reduced, the nursing dimension is weakened, so what are the home care development targets, priorities
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u83	Mr President! I must say here to the previous representative who spoke that it is not true that the government has said that education does not matter. This is not the case in any government policy, including the review of the treatment recommendation. But here I say 'no' when the SDP asked where will be that long-term cost reduction: This is not the intention to cut spending on social welfare and health care. The Minister has said this many times, we have said it many times. I wonder why you always twist the truth and say so. Yes, it is good to say that it is intended to do things more cost-effectively. One thing is that, through freedom of choice, pensioners who are now in line, unemployed, families with children, will be able to receive care in good time. And as the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Tuula Haatainen, will know when treatment is received in time, it will be more effective and cheaper. This is one concrete example, which will lower the cost of social welfare and health care by giving people equal access to treatment. But in your model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u84	Mr President! Firstly, we all know that this is a question of cutting costs of EUR 3 billion, but it is inevitable that this budget will show that services will then be cut and not necessarily developed. Mr President! We already have experience in the care of the elderly a few years ago when Valvira and the Ombudsman made a report on the mistreatment of the elderly, and the Minister will remember that those explanations were really harsh. But there was one thing in common: it was inadequate personnel, lack of skills, staff fatigue and poor management. And Minister Ruhula, we also know at the moment that our Finland's manning capacity is clearly worse than in other Nordic countries, and Finland is now going worse than in other Nordic countries. Should we not rather go the other way? Minister, what do you say to these people, who are currently very distressed by this situation about what the government is doing? What is their future care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u85	I ask you to follow this one-minute rule.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u86	Mr President! A few years ago, we went to Denmark to visit the care of the elderly, and it was said that this is exactly how more people have been recruited, including the unemployed and immigrants, and that is what people have been given to do. But certainly no trained staff has been added there. The quality recommendation was thus drawn up in 2008, and last season it was weakened from 0.8 to 0.5. Now it is desirable that in future, according to care, that nurse should then be defined in the care place. In December, 30 years come to me from my graduation as an assistant nurse, I have been working for more than 20 years, and there were also the studies of genomics. I have seen that sometimes it seems that when a nurse goes to bathe a patient, then whether it is a matter of competence and mission description, or whether it should return these old - time bathers, fitness nurses, to assist the activity in the nursing field. What do you think, Minister, about this idea? We also have a lot of resources to give,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u87	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! The reform of social services, Finland's largest restructuring in decades, is so important that it is self-evident that it should be properly committed to all those involved in the change. The opposition parties have therefore proposed the creation of a parliamentary working party to enable all parliamentary groups to be involved in the reform and to ensure that the outcome lasts beyond the parliamentary term. There are still very many question marks in the reform. How will preventive health care be organised, important local services such as maternity and child health clinics, and will freedom of choice also come under school health care? The working group could find answers to these questions. Furthermore, the linguistic impact assessments required under the Constitution are still outstanding. I ask you, Minister: can all the parliamentary groups be involved in this important preparation, and when will the assessments of the linguistic implications be made?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u88	Mr Östman, then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u89	Mr President! There has been a lively public debate about the fate of central hospitals, and one of the emotional factors is the status of my constituency, Vaasa Central Hospital. Yesterday, Prime Minister Sipilä said that at Vaasa Central Hospital, emergency services and ten special fields remain. As far as I know, there are eleven areas of expertise at the moment. So one question is: What area of expertise might possibly be disappearing, and perhaps the future of the maternity ward is threatened, as some have speculated in public? The second question: what can best guarantee that residents of Ostrobothnia in Swedish will continue to receive special care on an equal basis?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u90	Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u91	Mr President! For Swedish-speaking people in Ostrobothnia, the safety of particularly demanding care is in the erva region of Turku. Secondly, Swedish-speaking security services include the fact that the current Hospital District of Vaasa, the Hospital District of Ostrobothnia, is able to cooperate within the Erva region and with other Hospital Districts. What are the specific areas that will be covered in the future? In Vaasa, on duty, it will be resolved on time. In the case of births: Vaasa will continue to give birth, which will require, for example, the maintenance of certain surgical emergency units. Even completely false claims are being spread about the future of Vaasa Hospital. I understand the status issues. I understand very well that it is what it looks like. But the task in which I am and where the government is concerned is that 5.5 million Finns, regardless of their mother tongue, have access to services when they are needed. In that situation, these statuses don't matter much when there's an emergency. Vaasa will continue to give birth, resulting in, for example, the existence of an emergency surgeon. That is quite obvious. As far as these savings of EUR 3 billion are concerned, it is so difficult to do this task — this has been my problem, the problem of those who have been in this task, and the problem of those who will be — the core of the EUR 3 billion savings — starting with it — is that cost development will be brought to a halt. Secondly, the government has taken a very open line. Mr Haatainen, you happen to be a member of the parliamentary monitoring group which has been told several times about what will make that 3 billion. It consists of the integration of organisation, it consists of the integration of knowledge, it consists of freedom of choice, the reduction of waiting lists through freedom of choice, the improvement of basic services. It consists of the fact that the information is in the right place at the right time. It consists of exploiting the work of professionals, harnessing knowledge in a situation where information systems work better, efficiency, economy and timeliness. This is going to be the 3 billion. Papers which have also been completely public — it is then different if they have not been in the eyes of each of them — since June, the so-called NHG survey, the economic reports on production: A little familiar with this study, you can see that there are measures that have already been taken. Secondly, it is a principle of good preparation that different preparations are being made, but porridges and vellets are also very mixed up in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u92	There'll be a chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u93	Mr President! According to the current Act on Elderly Services, care for elderly people must provide a wide range of expertise in promoting well-being and health, gerontological care and social work, geriatrics, safe medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. Now you are going to remove these definitions of the elderly and make savings in that way. At the same time as you are calculating the number of care staff, you are also reducing the diversity of staff skills, although it is precisely through this that we could improve the ability of older people to function, so that the basic care may not be needed so much. The weakening of the law seems absurd. Are you really going to remove these definitions from the law? Even Mr Valvira says that the right to good care will no longer be achieved if the current minimum level is to be reduced as planned by the government. Mr Rehula, are you going to listen to Valvira and leave the nurseship alone?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u94	Mr President! Finland as a nation is ageing, and the needs and functional capacity of older people are also changing and emphasised differently in the future. These factors make it necessary to find new sustainable solutions for elderly services. Yesterday I was about to receive the Pensioners' Association's lobby. The message we received and they gave us this kind of survey that has asked the elderly about what they see as the biggest problems of elderly people in today's Finland. The top three are: small pensions, loneliness and poor access to social and health services. In the very short term, we will not be able to address the small size of pensions. In a way, it will be corrected by the fact that pensions will be higher in the future. But loneliness is a trend that rises. Low access to social and health services is the third one that concerns them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u95	Värderade Talman! Minister! This section describes well in terms of the operating environment how the financing of our welfare society requires economic growth. It is also recognised that the objective of the social welfare reform is to strengthen the sustainability of public finances. I think it should be self-evident that the economic and dynamic effects of all major reforms should be carefully and comprehensively assessed. It is, of course, particularly important for a small country such as Finland to take care of the operating conditions of the sectors and export clusters which, fortunately, we still have. I would like to ask the Minister whether, and in what way, the overall impact of the various reforms in the government has been analysed in relation to the conditions under which the high-processing export industry is operating in relation to its most important funding, i.e. the growing market?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u96	Mr President! One of the most humane ways of creating savings is to promote health. In this respect, we are delighted to see 34.5 million and 9 million additional resources being made available to promote health and functional capacity. A good example of this is that chickenpox vaccine comes into our vaccination program. That's a big thank you. This is a good example,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u99	Mr President! Minister Ruhula, you talked a lot about care in that Question Time, and I would like to ask about the relationship between care, need for care and staffing. This is the objective that we all agree that, if the elderly are able to function, their ability to live at home should be secured as far as possible, which, of course, requires the best and most comprehensive services to be taken home. But when those older people who are better able to function are transferred to good home services in accordance with our goals, the remaining number, in my opinion, is even weaker and the need for care and care for them is more demanding. How is it possible that, at the same time, the size of personnel in institutions 7/24 will be weakened when, with this logic, it is clear that the elderly who remain in institutions will be even weaker? And finally, a simple question: will the capital region come?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u100	Mr President! The government’s efforts to support informal care and family care are at last significant — a great thank you for that. However, like in previous years, I am very concerned about how this promised EUR 90 million will be used to improve the status of family and family carers. Unfortunately, as we know, during the tough local government finances, the money earmarked for the welfare and health checks of family carers who have concluded these informal care agreements may have been lost in the management of other municipal obligations, and since these promised funds are not earmarked, I would have asked the Minister: how closely are the municipalities instructed, and will there be any control over the use of these funds?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u101	Mr President! It has been very clear all along that the restructuring alone will not achieve the government's EUR 3 billion cost development savings in social welfare reform. What cannot be saved by restructuring is cut from basic human services. This cost cutter has been prepared by the government, and it is through it that savings can be made, even if they are forced to. There is a blur in the blanket, which basic human services and how much is ready to be cut, and this government-ordered social welfare list has emerged through publicity. The question is now purely to what extent the government is taking this savings list in its name and because the government is bringing this savings list to Parliament's attention. There is no need for hand - to - hand guidance or home instruction. Bring this to Parliament, to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to the Parliamentary Monitoring Group, instead of quietly downloading it on the Internet during the long nights of the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u102	Mr. Speaker! Very many homes are being treated today and have been treated forever for the elderly and the sick without necessarily having any kind of care training, and even to this day in many institutions and service housing these many elderly people do not need full-time medical treatment, but they need such basic care for ordinary life. When Mr Uotila has just raised this dimensional issue, I believe that dimensioning is a minimum measure and a smart and sensible employer will set up those nursing allowances according to it if this care is less appropriate. But I would like to ask you, Minister, what I have been thinking about: has it perhaps been thought that, when this official dimensioning and trained care staff is there, the less educated care workers could be used to supplement them?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u103	Mr President! The smallness of pensions, loneliness and access to social and health services — if not just ill — were indeed the main concerns of yesterday’s pensioner delegation. In 2008, THL recommended 0.8 as a nurse, and then nursing in institutions was quite different from now, so if we think about it, then 0.5 is a long way from it. Have you, Minister, thought how much and thought about the nurses' coping under this pressure? The second question I would like to ask is this: the old-age service law has been mentioned here, and it is a fine piece of legislation that has been put into effect in the past, and yet we are now thinking about removing the special expertise in the care of older people and the obligation of those responsible — the idea is that this will generate savings. There are indications from the rest of the world that this will cost more. Is this considered to the end, and this line is being withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u104	Mr President! This saving of EUR 3 billion is quite wild and, if you have listened to what the chairman of the study group, Mats Brommels, has said about this savings target, then he has said that it will be achieved by'restricting service capacity, so that the customer may have to wait for access to the service' — this is probably not the intention of anyone in this room — and he says, in other words, a direct quote from the Helsingin Sanomat from last spring: 'Those who do not want to wait in line will have the opportunity to go into private care with their own money'. In this same interview, he states that yours, the government, is exactly the same as he had prepared, so there is no doubt about the way in which this is going to proceed. But it is a real shame that the government has not brought this funding model and this freedom of choice for everyone to assess, because it is a very fundamental part of this whole reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u105	Mr Virolainen and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u106	Mr President! As medicine develops soaringly, a deeper understanding of disease mechanisms also develops in the same way, giving us more accurate diagnosis and more individual and effective treatment. It is therefore worth thanking the Minister for improving the efficiency of biobanks through this budget. We have a very research-friendly people in Finland, and our research is also very ethical. At the moment, when samples are collected, it requires broad informed consent, and we have, at some point here, accepted that it is such an opt-out procedure, i.e. if the deceased has not deliberately denied it, then it can be used. How, Minister, will you continue to think about sampling, could this be applied to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u107	Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u108	Mr President! First of all, health promotion: The financing solution, which is now the subject of a consultation on public money, includes the fact that the central government system of municipalities will become one new element and is an element of health promotion. Of course, EUR 60 million of state aids will be allocated in terms of universal coverage but also in terms of health promotion. 1% of regional funding will be in preventive work on health promotion, not earmarked, but there is a basis in the financing model. This has been the wish of many, and this is after a long twist in this position. Second of all, this old-age service law, quality recommendations. First of all, these changes to the Act on services for the elderly, in terms of expertise and the responsible person, do not fall on top of nothing. The Social Welfare Act includes a matter for older people from 2015 about taking responsibility for the development of service plans. Secondly, we are talking about feedback and feedback from the field, for example, for different professional groups. The hope has also come and is very broad that the field, the municipalities, should be given freedom in the care and care of people with the education, both those with higher education and those with the level of education at the university level and those with the level of education. This has been one wish. Thirdly, the whole quality recommendation will be reviewed. What will then be the outcome of this autumn's preparation is the truth. This is a matter written in the budget book, and it covers both professional questions and these dimensional issues. What do you think if you listen to this debate today, one young person who is thinking about his career choices in the area of elderly services, geriatrics and so on? Yes, the responsibility for all of us, whether in the government or in the opposition, is also that aspect. Let's go to the war. That 3 billion doesn't depend on faith. It has been calculated using the specs, the paragraphs contained in the package in the consultation. Here you wish to bring some savings list to the House. There won't be any. A production-economic assessment has been carried out, an assessment has been made which is required if nothing is done. This package of social welfare legislation will bring savings of EUR 3 billion
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u109	Mr President! The government still has reasons for this weakening of the old-age service law. During the last period, a historical Act on Elderly Services was adopted, and I explained what these measurements currently are: 2200 units had a mean of 0.62 and only 160 units were below this 0.5, i.e. between 0.4 and 0.5. In other words, mainly the reasons why we want to send out a signal that the whole should be reduced, should we not rather address these shortcomings and raise the threshold? The second relates to these quality recommendations. We have the most qualified medical staff in the Nordic countries. If we compare this, I think this too is a bad signal. The question to which I would like a simple and clear answer: is this just a savings law and whether the effects of this law have been examined?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u110	Mr President! Finland will be 100 years old next year, and we must remember why we will be able to celebrate the 100th anniversary next year. The key to this is the veterans of our wars, and I think it is extremely important that the government now directs more resources to veteran rehabilitation. A reduction in the percentage of disability from 15% to 10% is a good thing, but when you look at the average age of our entire veteran population, which is beginning to be 93 years old, it is no longer very important for the percentage of disability. I would like to ask the Minister: how great a chance could we have in the coming years to completely eliminate that percentage of disability and give veterans the rehabilitation they deserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u111	Mr President! Mr Lauslahti raised the question of the abolition of the sugar tax and that we should create a sugar tax in its place, and I fully agree with that. Perhaps one of the most amazing points in the budget book was that this sweet tax is to be abolished, just because it is a tax deduction of more than EUR 100 million, and because we know that it is of public health importance and that the obesity of children is a time bomb that will be in our hands. It is true that the EU has criticised this, but it could be implemented by means of health criteria, including in other EU countries such as Denmark, France and Hungary, and now that the EU Packaging Directive is that sugar quantities will be in packaging, it is absolutely necessary to move on to the sugar tax, and it is folly now and then to abolish that sweet tax and then to create a new tax. Nor is it a good tax policy because of its slumpiness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u112	Mr President! The amount of social security expenditure is EUR 20 billion per year and its growth during the last parliamentary term, for example, was around 2.4 per cent per year. Now the goal is to print it from 2.4 to 0.9, i.e. 1.5 percentage points, and that means 300 million per year — that is, 3 billion per 10 years. This is quite realistic when this project is well carried out, and I trust it will be done in this way. It comes through integration, thanks to the much greater efficiency of staff, real estate, ict and equipment, which is certainly possible, through the renewal and development of procurement, the larger units, the wise choice model and good implementation — that is to say, possible. What will this result in, in addition to this 3 billion dollars? Access to treatment is accelerated, treatment periods are shortened, sick leave periods are shortened, and so on. So this is an excellent, good and determined goal. All I ask is: how are these criteria for welfare and health support?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u113	Let me remind you once again that we should stick to this minute so that more people can talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u114	Mr President! First of all, I have to say that Question Time went well, thank you for that. I want to...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u115	Mr President! When you read that on-call regulation, you will find that there are, for example, certain accidents that are not treated in Finland except in one hospital. It shows that when you have such a small country, you have to somehow concentrate quality treatments. But now that these twelve large-scale emergency services remain, I ask the Minister: is it really the case that if, because of long distances in a region, we want to have a light emergency service — the people call it an on-call service — it is absolutely forbidden? It would sometimes make sense to take care of certain things there, for example, if you think that the police are going to catch some drunk driver and have a blood test, then you have to go a couple hundred kilometres to carry it, or something like this. I would like an answer to this question as to whether other emergency services, if any, are prohibited.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u116	Mr President! I agree with the thanks that have been expressed here, for example, for the varicella vaccine, and also with the wishes that have been expressed: representatives Lauslahti and Mikkonen, among others, wanted a sugar tax to replace this sweets tax in order to promote health. But the main concern of my own parliamentary group with regard to this section is related to elderly services. We do understand the difficult state of the economy and the need for savings, and also the need for good practice, for a rehabilitative labour force in elderly services, but it is difficult to secure the level of care for the elderly, let alone improvement, if, at the same time, the number of staff in relation to those actually being managed is to be calculated. So I ask you, Minister, how do you feel about this recent Nordic study?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u117	Mr President! The draft budget also draws attention to the issue of relief and substitute aid. This is a very important point because, overall, the situation of farmers is very challenging at the moment and this increase of 11 million is welcome. The survival of young farmers — or farmers in general but young ones in particular — is a cause for concern. I would like to ask the Minister about this: are there any specific requests yet to be made to us citizens? Second thing: Here are the representatives of Savola and Myllykoski raised this matter of veterans. My question is: how can we ensure that the municipalities carry out their duty? Now the government gives the money, but the measure itself remains largely the responsibility of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u118	Mr President! In the summer, we got headlines in the north of the country at a private care home for the elderly, where everything really wasn’t right. Weaknesses occurred in pharmacovigilance, hygiene, number of personnel, customer systems and patient data, and so on. I would like to ask: how are the resources of the avi control units secured? It is true that the majority of care institutions are doing well, but that control is needed for those who do not do so. Then I'd like to ask you again if the births will continue at the West Ostrobothnia Hospital. Can you make the same promise as you recently made to Mr Östman in relation to Vaasa, because Western Ostrobothnia is the second smallest maternity hospital in Mainland Finland, but about half of the children of Lapland are born there?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u119	Mr President! This section covers the entire life cycle of a person, and there are cuts but there are also positive things. For example, students come to general housing allowance, and there has also been talk of investing in family and family care. But then there's one thing. There's been a lot of talk here about nurses' measurements. I think that the world is changing and that we should all have more responsibility for our fellow humans, just if we think about health care. I have therefore wondered how it is, Minister, whether there could be such an opportunity in different municipalities that the relatives would take part in feeding, out transportation and so would friend rings and this kind of thing, so that now all of us who are healthy take responsibility for these people. You really don't have to go to that hospital. When I myself have been, it is terribly important, and I know that it may take half an hour to feed an elderly person, for example. I'm sure there's a willingness like this, but someone should be such a liaison,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u120	Mr President! During last summer I visited many different old people's care places, home service and such, getting to know the activities. There I talked to the nurses and the nurses about what the situation looks like. In this context, this 0.4 measure was highlighted, what it means in practice. It means that the old man gets the bed and the food and it ends, normal basic treatment and outdoor activities and this kind of stimulant functions, is left out. I was wondering whether the minister thought that this was such an appreciative decision-making process for care for the elderly, such that we would start to tighten up with that measure and deprive the nurses of the opportunity to do proper care work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u121	Mr President! The increasing youth unemployment has also increased the number of young people's income support customers, and at the same time we are concerned about the marginalisation of young people. After all, you can apply for income support for up to years at the moment without ever meeting a social worker or mentor face-to-face, and this will then increase the risk of exclusion. Indeed, when the calculation and payment of basic income support is transferred to Kela next year, it must be ensured that seamless cooperation between social work and Kela is going well. I would like to ask the Minister: how do we ensure that no young people are left behind in this reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u122	I would also like to respond to the following representatives: Mr Heikkinen and Mr Haatainen. Then there is the Minister's closing statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u123	Mr President! I would first of all like to thank Mr Mäkipää for his excellent point of view. Volunteers and relatives are a huge resource that can be used in various ways in various parts of the care of the elderly. This is the case now, and this was the case 20 years ago when I started in the care of the elderly myself, and I have been able to do it for about ten years in different parts of Finland. The first question for the Minister would be how we can take this section forward, that the municipalities and the management of nursing work should be seen as a resource for volunteering and family members. My second question relates to this enormous investment in family care. It is often seen that the care of the elderly is only two extremes: either it is home care or institutional care. But there is a great deal of new need for this, because the elderly are different and each has different needs. What are the ideas for developing family care, and how has it moved forward as a key project?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u124	Mr President! Of these savings of EUR 3 billion: There is no such thing as the accuracy of what is now being read out of the public domain, there in the working group, in the parliamentary monitoring group, and I hope that we will now be informed as to whether we are going according to these figures, as described here: 210 million for disability services and so on. These are figures which also mean a great deal in the content of services. But I'm sure we'll be able to get a report on this to that task force. However, I would like to ask you a completely different question, namely the financing of shelters. It will increase by 2 million, that is a good thing, but despite the fact that it is now being increased, its need is actually 4 million. Last year, 2,000 families seeking shelters were left without a place, had to be turned away. I would like to ask: is there any way to bring it forward now that 2 million will be raised so that it can be put in order at once so that we do not have to turn away from the door for a couple of years? It could be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u125	And Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u126	Mr President! Now, just to be sure, did Mr. Haatainen mean the treatment of intoxicant mothers or these first and...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u129	The debate on the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health ends. Let's move on to the section of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u130	Mr President! A total budget of around EUR 1.5 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior next year. This is about EUR 200 million less than in the actual budget for this year. This reduction is largely due to the stabilisation of the number of asylum seekers after the peak of peaks in late 2015. Despite the difficult economic situation, it has been possible to increase internal security resources recently. In accordance with the Government Programme, an annual increase of EUR 28,5 million has been invested in internal security and justice in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior since 2016. On the other hand, the operating expenditure savings and other cuts made in the Government Programme will also reduce all operating expenditure items in a cumulative way that, especially after 2017, these savings will put internal security operators in the face of new challenging solutions. Mr President! I would now like to briefly highlight the budgetary perspectives for next year and other key budgetary issues in the home affairs administration. In accordance with last spring's decision on the spending limits, an additional allocation of EUR 5 million will be allocated to the police for 2017, including increasing automatic traffic control and combating the shadow economy. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 10 million. An amount of EUR 0.4 million is proposed in the budget to increase the starting points for police training next year. In order to secure the resources of the protection police, last spring's spending limits decision will include a level increase of EUR 2 million from next year. In order for the protection police to be able to carry out their duties and to prevent threats within their field of activity, the Agency’s resources must be improved over a long period of time — and with a long-term perspective. Without a changed operating environment, the resources of the protection police are scarce, let alone now that the operating environment is changing all the time. The situation in Russia and the Baltic Sea region is most important for the operations of the Border Guard. The aim is to strengthen internal and external security at the eastern border and to keep cross-border traffic safe. The Border Guard shall establish a new rapid reaction reserve required by the EU Border and Coast Guard System. This is what we agreed together in the EU agreement. To this end, an additional amount of EUR 2 million has been proposed for next year's budget for the Border Guard. It has to be said, however, that the Border Guard is also the subject of very difficult adjustment measures, and at the moment there is a debate on which the money will be taken, because each of us understands that border guarding and border security are a highly labour-intensive sector and that is why we cannot reduce those people very much from there. The rescue action is currently undergoing reform as part of the regional reform and in the same timeframe and regional distribution as the social and health care reform. The reform aims at a more efficient and economic system in which larger regions can also prepare for rare disasters or natural disasters throughout the country. This will ensure the efficient use of the resources of the rescue services so as not to undermine the operational capability of the rescue services. Rescue services must continue to be local services, and that is what we are investing in in the Ministry. A level increase of EUR 2 million was made in the spring spending limits decision for emergency centres from 2017. This is intended to ensure the smooth operation of the installation and the gradual introduction of a new networked information system, Erica. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The exceptional situation of asylum seekers has set the requirements for the functioning and effectiveness of the authorities at a new level. The number of asylum seekers arriving in Finland can be estimated to be permanently higher than before. Currently, some 13,000 people are awaiting the first decision on their asylum application and more than 23,000 are waiting for their case to be dealt with in the reception system at different stages of the process. As we all understand, the quickest possible processing of asylum applications is the most humane and cost-effective way of dealing with this issue. Since the end of last year, the Finnish Immigration Service has made significant additional recruitments. A large number of customers have caused delays at all stages of the process, which is very understandable in exceptional circumstances. It is very difficult, practically impossible, to estimate reception costs in advance. In addition to the number of applicants and the time taken to process applications, the costs of the reception will be affected by a number of other factors, such as the capacity of administrative courts to cope with an increasing number of complaints, the speed and efficiency of the removal of those who have received a negative decision, the effectiveness of voluntary return and the speed of the transfer to the municipality of residence. In total, approximately EUR 274 million has been earmarked for reception expenditure in the 2017 budget. — — — — You're hoping I'll stop here like this. I have some more introductions to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u133	I would now ask those Members who wish to speak in this part of the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u134	Mr President! As a whole, this draft budget for 2017 is about EUR 200 million lower than the budget for the current year, as the Minister said, and the biggest reductions are due to expenditure on the reception of asylum seekers in the immigration administration, the police and the Border Guard, and this reduction is precisely due to the fact that this number of asylum seekers has stabilised — EUR 200 million. In this context, we must thank the government for all the blackmail that has been done on our asylum policy in the course of this year. And that is the view I have that these blackmails must continue so that Finland becomes as unattractive as possible in the eyes of these asylum seekers. This budget proposal, in my opinion, is the clearest proof of where the greatest possible savings can be made in our economy. That's about 200 million dollars now. Let's keep this good work going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u135	Mr President! Although the chairman of the Administrative Committee said that savings come through a solution to asylum issues, the reality seems to be somewhat different from the same budget book. Madam Minister of the Interior, you promised in that SuomiAreena in the summer that the budget of the police should be increased. Now that I'm looking at the police administration, there's a minus 42 million, the figure's negative. How did this happen? It's the wrong direction. We have 7,200 policemen and women in the field, and according to the budget book and according to the information that has been obtained from that Ministry of the Interior, the number of policemen is likely to fall below 7,000 in the coming year. Indeed, under 7,000, which is below the pain line and substantially. Seventy per cent of crimes and crimes are committed intoxicated. Now the alcohol law has been changed in a more liberal way. How the Alcohol Act and the Degressive Frameworks of the Police
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u136	Mr President! Internal security is a very important issue for us. And I understand that, in times of scarcity like this, when there is always too little money, it is painful to invest these funds in the right places. Two questions: The second is the Border Guard. Will the current scarce resources of the Border Guard ensure that, for example, control of the green border works reasonably well in all situations and, let us say, completely, because zero tolerance in border control is required? And the second point is the 24-hour opening hours at international border crossing points. The Border Guard has planned, among other things, to close the Niirala border crossing point for the night. I do not think that such a task should be carried out because it leads to, for example, difficulties in border traffic and border trade, because a lot of freight traffic is taking place at night and it is almost impossible to schedule it in daytime alone or lead to situations that are overwhelming. What is the situation in this round-the-clock opening situation at border crossing points?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u137	Mr President! We must pay tribute to the Government for the work done by the Ministry of the Interior in recent years, and Minister Risikko has done this with merit in his strict and firm line. We have a lot of financial difficulties in Finland at the moment and have had to make cuts to a number of sectors, but the government has invested money specifically in the Ministry of the Interior and then also in justice and has also made many reforms, and it has been protected from major cuts precisely because of the importance of internal security in this society at this time in particular for the government. In general, the government and the Ministry reacted very well last year to this pressure on immigration. Looking at the other countries of Europe, many people were very much left behind on this issue. And now I am confident that next year too, when there will be a huge number of these illegal immigrants,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u138	Mr President! I also attach my own concern to the amount of human resources available to the police. After all, with current developments by 2020, the number of police staff years will be reduced by as much as 800, and this 7,000 police pain limits will be far behind. Of course, this will affect all pre-trial research into the introduction of new technologies or, for example, social media visibility, which is essential for preventing problems. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior, Mr Risiko: how do you feel about the police's ability to take preventive and preventive action, even by means of so-called soft measures, now that the police have to cut down on their activities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u139	Mr President! The Minister has made a very good report on that budget. I myself am concerned about that situation in the shadow economy, even though it was included in the security of operations, specifically in the shadow economy and road safety, EUR 5 million. But then, on the other hand, when EUR 9.6 million is taken out of the separate budget of the informal economy, it becomes such a mathematically negative phenomenon that this activity is 4.6 million loss-making. Can we open this up a little bit?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u140	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the future savings in this police sector, EUR 42 million. This means that some 202 person-years are leaving the police. As far as Ostrobothnia is concerned, this means a reduction of 16 police officers. However, according to the spending limits table of yesterday’s Police Government, this figure will increase so that 13 more man-years of work will be reduced in the whole country, but it is reported that there will be an increase in five man-years for the Police Government. In the past, there was talk of more workers in the field and out of the administration. It seems that next year the number of police staff years will still be over 7,000, but in 2018 it would be falling below 7,000, which has been considered a very critical line. Will you bring more in next spring's spending limits decision?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u141	Värderade Talman! It is mentioned here that there will be a reduction in the demand for labour outside the EU, followed by a large number of needs assessments, i.e. in practice a need-tested needs test, i.e. no practical facilitation of work-related immigration outside the EU. It is against the interests of Finnish companies, it is against the interests of foreign companies when they want to be etabated here. It makes no economic or industrial sense, apart from the fact that I believe it does not contribute to the deregulation that the government has said it is promoting. What is the idea behind this, or is it only relevant to this immigration policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u142	Mr President! There seems to be new threats to the sky of internal security. The last news has been made of a very unfortunate and sad fatal assault at the Helsinki railway station. Before that, there were reports of a fatal robbery in Kajaani. During the summer, the radical animal activist group EVR announced that they had set buses on fire in Vantaa: nine buses were burned, and the damage was estimated at at least EUR 1.5 million. When such new mild phenomena and even threats seem to be commonplace, the police should step up their efforts and increase their preparedness. Such measures will simply no longer succeed with the current number of people. We should increase the number of police posts, but the opposite seems to be the case now, because there are messages from the police services that if we do not get more money, we will have to reduce the staff and even compromise on what is known as 'damages'. In his own speech, the Minister said that he had a desire to receive additional funding for the police, and with these words I would encourage the Minister to act very vigorously in order to provide relief and increase the funding for the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u143	Mr President! The latest estimate of the current number of police officers is 7230. Next year, when police appropriations fall by 42 million compared to the current year, we know that this means a significant reduction in staff: The police government has estimated a reduction of 250 people, which would already go below the 7,000 mark, and it is quite clear that, when the situation is already difficult in the police, the police’s ability to act in all police sectors threatens to deteriorate significantly. We've already talked about anarchy in the police department. When you, Minister, said just now in Question Time that on Monday you would also have this resource debate under the leadership of the Prime Minister, I would now like to encourage you to have that debate and to ensure that we are increasing that level of funding so that we do not have the current level of funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u144	Mr President! I should like to thank the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister for the Interior in particular for their consistent efforts to ban violent extremist organisations and their symbols and to intervene in these violent extremist organisations and to seek different means of doing so. It is also excellent that the police are preparing new ways of addressing hate speech. All in all, it is great that the Minister has taken a firm stand on this too. I hope that in these concrete actions, both in the intervention of violent extremist organisations and in the intervention of hate speech,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u145	Mr President! Border control has been tight, and now it seems that the only way to survive is to always move bordermen from one place to another, when they are moving to the south, when they are moving to the north. However, the need for more pressure on the part of the European Union would be to increase 60 border guards, but there is a risk of a reduction. Mr Hoskonen was concerned about Niirala's border position, but when there are more of them, which are about to be closed down, I will also mention Imatra, which, however, is quite a bit of our exports and, in the case of wood imports, the most important places for the whole forestry industry in this regard. With regard to the grey economy last autumn in this Chamber, the whole of Parliament strongly felt that separate funding should be directed to the Tax Administration and then to the police in this investigation of financial crimes. It was then promised — I remember that the then Minister Orpo promised — an additional 5 million, and now there is no such thing. Why?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u146	Mr President! Just as the Minister said in his presentation, internal security and external security are closer to each other at the moment. At least I personally would see it very important that the Minister of the Interior should also be represented in TP-UTVA in the near future, so the questions of the Ministry of the Interior now remain at the heart of our country's security. As far as this border agreement is concerned, I would like to ask the Minister, now that the information is so that this border agreement with Russia will not be extended: what kind of debate are you currently having with the Russian authorities or with a Russian colleague on the future of our eastern border and the maintenance of control? In this regard, I would like to see some firm action being taken to ensure that border controls are maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u147	Mr President! I'm going to take a more regional perspective. Central Finland is a province of 275,000 inhabitants, and we have a regional government with regard to the Ministry of the Interior in Vaasa, the headquarters of the police district is now in Tampere, and now according to the regional division plans of the Emergency Services Department, there is a plan to have the headquarters of the emergency services in Kuopio. However, they should cooperate, and also cooperate with emergency care, medical transport and medical care. I ask you, Minister Risikko: is it possible, however, that this major division of the rescue services should be abandoned and, for example, Central Finland should be kept as one of its own?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u148	Mr President! Integration training is a key tool for the integration of adult immigrants. However, access to education has to wait for a very long time in several localities. Especially in these very tough economic times, it is very good and important that many volunteers from all over Finland have expressed their desire to help the SPR and reception centres and their own actions to facilitate the adaptation of the arrivals. Unfortunately, many volunteers no longer dare to take part in a tense climate of hate speech and racism. Numerous volunteers report repeated threats, fear of violence, and slanders against both them and their families. I would like to ask the Minister: how can we raise the value of volunteering and ensure that anyone who wants to spend his own valuable time in this important work can do:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u149	Mr President! Even the Internal Security Report showed that the tasks of the authorities are increasing, becoming more complex and the operating environment is changing in many ways. All in all, these challenges are known, but at the same time, as the Minister said, the internal security resources, in line with the previously established frameworks, are continuing to tighten up. Of course, we are linked to this big picture of the economy, but I would say in such a way that, for example, when the Administrative Committee is dealing with next year's budget, we already have to assess the current situation from the point of view that those budget numbers may not be enough for next year. I consider it absolutely necessary that, at the time of assessing the frameworks from 2018 onwards, this changed situation should definitely be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u150	At this stage of the debate, I will give five minutes to the representatives of Eloranta, Löfström, Tolvanen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u151	Mr President! The adaptation plans of the Border Guard include calculating the poor weather capability of the Turku helicopter base by giving up air traffic control services. In bad weather at night, rescue helicopters from the Border Guard would operate from Helsinki Airport instead of Turku. The ability to save the sea would be dramatically reduced and other multiplier effects would also occur. Rescue helicopter operations are essential in the archipelago for working medical transport and maritime rescue work. This change would significantly increase flight time to the Turku Archipelago, 45 minutes, while the maritime and patient safety of the Archipelago Sea in the event of an accident or a sickness is deteriorating. The night-time retention of Turku air traffic control makes it difficult to operate, especially in the area of the outer archipelago. Under certain circumstances, aid could no longer be exported to the west of Åland and to the south-west sea areas of Finland. Minister, what is your response to this concern is whether the safety of those living and travelling in the archipelago is being undermined?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u152	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Gränsbevakningsväsendet står inför stora inbesparingskrav effect att redan ha genomfört stora sparprogram. Man har enligt mig nu spat så pass mycket att man komit ner till en slimmad organisation, att det är svårt att spara merutan att verksamhetens servicenivå änks. För sjöbevakningen föreslås i redogörelsen för den inre säkerheten att fyra sjöbevakningssstationer ska stangas. Sjöbevakningen gör ett enormt viktigt arbete i skärgården. På Åland har vi i dag kvar TVå stationer, Mariehamn och Kökar, effecter att flera stationer tidigare har stängts. Kökars station är oerhört viktig för skärgården.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u153	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for creating such a realistic picture of internal security actors, including the relationship between external and internal security and, of course, the fact that the Minister directly admitted that internal security actors needed additional funding. During the previous period there was a parliamentary working group which I was honoured to lead, and already it called for such continuity. Now let's live from hand to mouth. Are you now the first Minister of the Interior, which I hope will be able to create continuity in this funding for internal security actors, so that the management knows how much we can afford to hire staff? Of course, these, which have now been given more money, are fine armrests, but a little bit more is needed to make this work. Finally, I would like to ask about the number of rescue areas. Because they're going to be decided, and it's going to be five, because it's already top professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u154	Before the Minister has spoken, I will give the floor to Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u155	Mr President! Now I have to see if I have the same budget book as Mr Tolvanen. There has been talk here by government representatives that money has been added. Looking at the total, there are now 42 million missing from this year’s funding, so we are going down for those figures. In order to get a realistic picture of what Mr Tolvanen well referred to in his speech, of this whole internal and external security — an understandable, well-defined and, above all, well-organised entity — we need to talk about the same figures, at least to be honest with each other. Now the level of funding is falling. I therefore hope and look forward to seeing the Minister's view on how we can get to the rising numbers, the higher the number of police officers and, above all, the effectiveness of action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u156	Minister — 5 minutes and only 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u157	Mr President! I would like to thank you for your encouraging words and also for your support for this sector. Let us take a few words from all these sectors, the sectors of this administrative sector. You're worried about the police's resources. So am I. You are quite right that when, first of all, a report has been made in the spring stating that we should keep at least the 7,000 police officers, the spending limits decision that has been taken last spring is not enough. That will be enough next year, but not for the next 7000 years. That is why, in my introductory speech, I have already pointed out that, and I have already said this in the budget debate, yes, next spring, I will raise this issue in the budget debate that the money will not be enough for the 7,000. In addition to calling for preventive work, the additional need for the alcohol law for the police, which is quite true, the grey economy requires people, and then it is precisely that continuity that is hoped for. We are currently working on an internal security strategy and a multi-sectoral action programme, and that is where we will also get this information on what all the resources are for. Then let me say that, next spring, the spending limits decision will have to make a correction to this, but I do think that we already need a debate on whether we can somehow allocate resources in this budget next year. It is now in our debate then, and as I said in that Question Time, I intend to take it to that Monday debate as well. We are already allocating a little more resources to those online cops. Well, then, border guard business. Can you work? You asked. It is true that the adjustment programme that has had to be drawn up because of this reduction in money is now being drawn up, which means that at this stage I will not be able to comment on these when it comes to what adaptation is to be made, by night-time closures at border stations or by deductions from this operation. However, I would like to assure you that we will certainly do all we can to ensure that safety is not undermined. But we have to look at this, and I cannot say at this point because decisions are only made after our Border Guard has done all the analysis and then brings to my desk what they propose. You asked me whether I would be able to go with UTUVA, and that is where I am now. So I am very pleased that the Minister of the Interior can attend the meeting of the UtVA. Then there is also this border agreement, Raja-Josep and Salla. After all, that deadline expires at the beginning of October. At the time when it was done, it was done in that situation, in need but in time and in a one-off manner, and at the moment there is no need for it to continue. With regard to the reform of the rescue services, the official proposal is now on the table, and I hope that everyone will make a hard statement about it, and the actual number of regions will then be looked at. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that this reform is much more than just the number of regions. It is also the development of content and the development of the whole system in that future. You said immigration. Fortunately, we now have fewer of those immigrants, but the problem is that these asylum procedures have been prolonged. So we still have a very large number of people waiting for that first decision, and then, of course, there is this appeal process. On labour immigration, you said, and I agree with you that we must promote this, legal labour immigration, and also because of studying, immigration must be promoted. Then the importance of volunteers is very important, and I am very grateful to all those volunteers, but I also think that both in the reception centres and in all these activities it must be guaranteed security. And that is where, fortunately, we now have good cooperation between the police, other officials and the reception centres. All you have to do is develop it and pass the data. In my opinion, Senate property is quite a tragedy at the moment, when we are spending a great deal of money on these various offices and then do not allow those contracts to be dismantled very easily. I'm sure he's still here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u158	Mr President! In 2015, 1052 rape offences were reported, which is 4.3 per cent more than in the year before. Minister, what do these rape statistics show at the moment? According to reports in Tampere, the police were present in five minutes when such a crime took place. The police must be respected and the need for adequate financial resources must be borne in mind. Of course, there is praise for the small ones that are coming, as well as for those that are coming to education. The insecurity faced by older people is very important to take into account. In the middle of a bright day, my kinsman was robbed by the gypsy beggars by an illusion trick. I have therefore taken the initiative of proposing that this strategy for internal security should also take account of the insecurity faced by older people in the middle of a clear day and also of service houses. How's that initiative coming along?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u159	Mr President! In last year's budget, the budget of the protection police was increased, as in the spring frameworks, that level was increased by EUR 2 million. Now again this week we have been discussing a very regrettable case of violence and organised crime, extremism. These are also Nordic phenomena, and this organisation, which is at the heart of this debate, is a Nordic movement. How well does the protection police legislation respond to the fact that we in the Nordic countries can eradicate such extremist organisations and, on the other hand, how well does that legislation respond to the fact that the protection police are also able to obtain all that information through international intelligence? Unfortunately, we are still behind the Nordic comparison when comparing the resources of the protection police.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u160	Mr President! We spoke today in Question Time about political violence and racism, and I would like to thank the Minister for his frank and clear action in Question Time. It is hard to see now when you look at this administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior and read this picture of the situation, how quickly this book, which has already been printed, has become obsolete in many ways, when we think about what is currently the security situation or what is going on and what needs to be taken into account. On the other hand, the debate that took place today is certainly not new, but it has finally surfaced in a new way through speech. When we talk about racism, then it is important to talk about structures, because ultimately the structures are the ones that create it or sustain it. We were talking about these attractiveness factors, and it has now been quite a determining factor for us when we talk about asylum seekers and immigration. But you should be careful, because it is often unattractive, and by tightening up we usually create the very arrangements where a group will have less chance of taking that life forward, or it will have a marked impact on that thinking culture, thinking about certain people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u161	Mr President! I must say that this budget of the Ministry of the Interior is marked by a lack and misery, but the Minister must be congratulated on the fact that such scarce elements have brought together a balanced and functional whole. As has been said in the presentation text and in this Chamber many times, our security environment is changing. Internal and external security are intertwined, and I feel that there is a great consensus here in the Chamber that the ideal goal of the 7,000 police officers in the long run is perhaps a little naive and too low. It was gratifying to hear that the Minister has decided to raise this issue in the spring debate on the spending limits so that a corrective shortcut can be introduced. I think it is time to turn around and invest more in this security. Yes, these events in the world today, here in Finland, are of the order that safety should be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u162	Mr President! I, too, have concerns about the resources of the Border Guard. As a result of scarce resources, a few international border crossing points are threatened with nighttime closures, as has already been said here. This is, for example, the situation in North Karelia at the Niirala border station. This is a worrying proposal for a number of reasons. Firstly, it would seriously undermine road safety by shifting heavy traffic to daytime traffic on a narrow and indecent road, and closing night time would also reduce the situation of tourism and export activities in the whole province and in Eastern Finland. I therefore hope that when the government takes its decision, it will also take account of these broader aspects, not only of the situation in the Border Guard, because this will also have regional policy implications. Secondly, as far as the rescue service is concerned, North Karelia has had a highly functional and cost-effective rescue service, and we have been concerned about the excellent operating model if we move on to the five-region model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u163	Mr President! I would like to raise the police's resources even though much has been said about them. In many ways it comes very close. The police have a service to be for the people and for the citizens, but what has been the news from the airport? Instead of now having that service assignment at number one, number two, number three, the first thing to do is to think about how to get those tasks off the to-do list for some reason without being taken up. Next, the most important thing on the field is to do the tasks as quickly as possible to make it look like things are going to work out. Thirdly, it has been said that an emergency alarm may come but I have to say to the phone that there are two or three similar urgent alarms in the queue, that you just have to wait. Or that when two or three patrols are needed, there is only one — what is being done? The police’s own security is also very questionable and is at a very high level. And it's come from the airport that a lot of people are wondering.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u164	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made here. I read a report from Kela in the Social Insurance magazine today, where experts say that social inequality is a source of discontent, and the media has now read how it has erupted in society. This magazine has also mapped out these causes of discontent, and it has also been mentioned that discontent is not a bad thing, but how it is channelled is a bad thing — if it is channelled as an event like this, as we have now seen. Now I am actually challenging this debate a little bit, in that when we talk about this fairness and confrontation, for example, there was a paperless person at the turn of the week who announced that he would start committing crimes if he did not get the apartment on top of his head and he was given a negative asylum. So how can we increase the feeling of a Finnish person as a taxpayer so that he is law-abiding?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u165	Thank you. — Representative Pakkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u166	Mr President! I myself am concerned about the reform of the rescue services and I would remind you that the Finnish Free Fire Service is an organisation based on voluntary work that takes care of approximately 60-70% of the first response and safety of Finnish citizens. Free fire brigades account for about 80 per cent of Finland’s surface area, where they are the first safety authority when an accident or damage occurs. I hope that this rescue service reform will safeguard the operating conditions of the free fire brigades and give them the dignity and opportunity they deserve. As we have heard here, the Minister appreciates volunteering, and this vpk activity is one such activity, and it is also a very good place for young people for education and growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u167	Mr President! Personally, I am in favour of automatic traffic control, but it seems to me that the lowering of this tolerance, where it has now been put, will significantly increase administrative work but will probably not improve road safety in the event of an increase in low speeds and so on. I wish the Minister would reflect on this. The penalty point system is also something that has often been proposed in Finland, and it could be quite welcome to introduce and moderate to these shortcomings. I also share these concerns about the resources of the police. We seem to have certain places, Winterfell and others, where there's always money when there's a need. Now there is a need to find additional resources for the police, as the Minister has said, and let us hope that they will. Brings a certain degree of internal and external security and the involvement of the Minister There is also great support for the UTUVA table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u168	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank Minister Risikko for the strong leadership you showed in Question Time. Secondly, I would like to thank Mr Mäkisalo-Roppo, who raised these round-the-clock border posts and the concern to close them up, as well as the fact that the rescue services reform would not break down functioning areas, but would do so in such a way as to maintain these strengths. Then I would have asked about Migri's situation. After all, a couple of weeks ago, information came to light that there was pressure on the workers to work and perhaps to compromise on quality, and here it came out that, although the number of asylum seekers has fallen, there is still a large number of these applications in the queue that need to be dealt with. I would have asked: how have we now been taken into account and how are we to monitor the fact that Migri has sufficient resources to achieve high-quality decisions and processes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u169	Mr President! I would also like to highlight this border agreement between Russia and Finland, which is now ending, I think, on 6 October. It has limited the crossing of non-Finnish, Russian and Belarusians. It worked as expected, calmed the situation at that border, but when we visited, the representatives of Lapland, there in Raja-Joosep, the message of the authorities was that there was a purely question mark as to what would happen when this interim agreement ended. I hope, of course, that if there are any surprises, then there will be a willingness to react quickly to this situation. The second point I am raising is this reduction in the opening hours of the borders. Niirala and Imatra have already been raised here, but I will raise this third point of the Salla border crossing. We are concerned about that, if the time is reduced, because there are a lot of tourists from Russia who visit Finland from day to day, and when this opening hours decrease, then this will no longer be possible to the extent that it used to be, as well as for other industrial policy, that is bad news.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u170	Mr President! We received an internal security report in May, and that is where the government promises to secure security for the whole country. So I'm sure there'll be plenty of pressure when we hear that the number of cops, for example, is falling. After all, security is the cornerstone of Finnish democracy and well-being. When Minister Risikko mentioned that these asylum applications have not gone so quickly, it would of course be humane for this expectation to be able to get these decisions in motion quickly. And then there's the police. When we know that the police are trusted, and when you see them around, it's a sense of security. These tin policemen have now become more and more on the roads, but they do not see, for example, the condition in which the motorist drives there. And at least familiar police officers have sent me a message that why they put those police posts in the administration instead of in the field. Is that really the case? Of course, that field work is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u171	Mr President! Indeed, last May Parliament was given an internal security report in which the government promises to secure internal security resources throughout the country. Parliament will give its response to this report next spring, and now we know that an extremely important internal security strategy is being carried out by a working group whose mandate, I think, will end in May. How, then, Minister, are these timetables designed to reconcile Parliament's will for internal security with this strategy work? What kind of interaction is planned with Parliament in this strategy work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u172	Mr President! It is good to continue with this speech. The Ministry of the Interior conducted a life cycle survey of children born in 87 and their lives up to adulthood. These children have lived during the depression of childhood, when various services were reduced, and as a result it was found that they have lived a reasonably difficult life for these children. There have been detentions, psychiatric medication, school breaks, and so on. Now that this internal security report and strategy are being carried out, I would like to ask the Minister: how do you make use of, or do you use, the Ministry of the Interior's report on further work? The second point I would also like to draw attention to is the opening hours of the Border Guard and these border crossings in south-eastern Finland. Similarly, as has been said here in several speeches, I would like to see these border crossings in south-eastern Finland secured. I would like to ask: what plans do you have for them?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u173	Mr President! Like Mr Toivola and many other representatives, I would have liked to thank Minister Risikko for his very frank appearance during Question Time. I hope that the government's review on Monday and the talks between the Police Government and the Prosecutor could lead to an action for a ban on this neo-Nazi organisation. I do not think that a ban on an organisation as such necessarily affects its activities in the form of a network, but I think that it would be a very welcome and necessary signal from society as to what is to be thought of such an organisation. The condition is that the organisation's activities are clearly illegal and, given how many acts of violence can now be committed in the history of that organization, I believe that the conditions for bringing an action are:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u174	Mr Tavio, then Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u175	Mr President! Yes, people are concerned about the internal security of our country. Recently, in recent days, there has been a rather tense atmosphere. Some politicians are now using this homicide, which is still under investigation, as a policy instrument. In my opinion, however, it is not worth preparing any rash legislation in the face of these emotional storms. We'd rather maintain police resources. I myself hope that the police will increase their resources, both the protection police and the police. However, more police resources are needed, especially as the number of illegal immigrants has increased in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u176	By way of derogation from what has just been said, I will give the floor to the representative of the largest opposition group from this committee in question, that is to say to Mrs Kari, who rose up a little bit, and then to the Minister for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u177	Mr President! With warm thanks, I would like to say the same thing as the representatives of a number of groups who have already thanked the Minister for his line-up. That's right. There are different examples of what is being used in political activity. I do share the fact that things should not be made up, but they should be discussed, and for that I would like to thank the Minister very much. That is exactly what needs to be done. In this context, I would also like to say that the SDP will also take up this Minister's proposal to look at the police budget as early as autumn and to build a framework for spring that the SDP has already provided in its own option to maintain the level of 7200 policemen in the years to come. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u178	And Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u179	Mr President! In other words, the adaptation measures of the Border Guard will be assessed in a diverse way. It also looks at the economy and working, but above all at the security. Thank you for raising the safety of elderly people. I'm sure it's gonna be on that internal security program, too. You have taken the initiative in Parliament, and I am sure there will be a position here. In addition to this in the Internal Security Programme, I am also taking action in relation to the safety of older people at the Ministry of the Interior. You asked the protection police if there was enough legislation. This support for legislation has been increased and, at least, according to the information I have received, it has all been welcome. But I would now like to draw attention to the intelligence legislation, which I am sure Minister Niinistö, who is here with us, is also waiting for, which is to encourage you here in the parliamentary group to move it forward as quickly as possible. You are all concerned about the police budget — and I am concerned about this security and all in all. We have a great deal of security threats, both internal and external, and we need all these security authorities. When they are not completely substitutable by any machine or by electronic digitalisation methods, it is a labour-intensive sector, we need people. But I say, however, with regard to the problem of police spending, that it is not just money that solves them now. At the same time, we need to think about the division of labour and also about what we need to focus on. It's going to take a lot of time for the police to deal with things that should be handled by someone else. First, let us take, for example, the transportation of intoxicated persons. Who said it was a police mission? The same is true for intoxicated persons in areas where there is no survival status in the province or municipality, where police officers, who do not necessarily have the expertise of social welfare and health care, still have to guard a person who may then even die in that jail. I hope that we will also get some kind of rats into this division of work. I told you, we're making a service promise now. The police have been hoping that the decision-makers will say what to focus on. Service promise operations have now started under the leadership of our Chief of Staff. In the rescue services, contracting and voluntary fire brigades are an extremely important issue. Congressman Pakkanen brought them up. I agree. Then Migri's resources have been increased. I think they're going to be all right there with these things. Of course, the internal security programme is an important debate with parliamentarians. Then I say to those who are illegal in the country that we should not allow that, no one, that we have the number of people who are illegal in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u180	The debate on the section of the Ministry of the Interior is closed. We're moving on to the D.O.D. section.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u181	Mr President! In the preparation of the defence budget, account has been taken of the increase in the budget proposed by the Parliamentary Study Group in 2014, which will increase from EUR 50 million to EUR 80 million for the current year in 2017. In the current central government frameworks, this increase in the Defence Forces’ material performance deficiencies will gradually increase to EUR 150 million per year by 2020, including index increases. From the point of view of the Defence Administration, it is not a question of an increase in the level of defence appropriations, but of a partial compensation for the major cuts that have been made in the past. The new order strength will begin in 2017 with the development of the Defence Forces' material, the sum of which will be EUR 71 million for next year and EUR 519 million for the years to come. The major projects of the start-up development programme include the acquisition and targeting of military intelligence and the development of radar surveillance, the ability of electronic influence to meet the needs of all defence branches, and the development of the use of regional forces for fire, firepower management, anti-tank and mobility. It can be said that during this parliamentary term it will be the turn of the Army when, in the 2020s, the major strategic acquisitions of the Navy and the Air Force are ahead. Mr President! Correspondingly, operating expenditure savings under the Government Programme and permanent operating expenditure savings decided during the previous parliamentary term are increasing by approximately EUR 12 million in the Ministry of Defence's section compared to 2016. This sum consists, inter alia, of the introduction of the security network of the public authorities, the reduction of late interest on purchase invoices, the centralisation of accounts, the increase in wage slips and the savings in central government real estate expenditure. The Competitiveness Pact will cut the operating expenditure of the Defence Forces by approximately EUR 26 million. The majority of this share consists of a reduction in holiday allowances and reductions in the employer's health insurance and pension contributions, which reduce expenditure by nearly EUR 19 million. This is not a problem because it is a matter of money flowing through, so to speak. The problem is to extend the working time agreed in the Competitiveness Pact by 6 minutes a day, which will have an impact in the Defence Forces of more than EUR 7 million next year. That amount shall be deducted from staff costs. The undisputed fact is that the massive and cumulative cuts in the Defence Forces' operating budget over several years are a problem for the Defence Forces and make it difficult to maintain the level of activity at the level required by the Defence Forces' missions and the training requirements of the wartime forces. This problem will be addressed in the current defence report. Despite a slight decrease in operational expenditure, the Defence Forces are developing their capabilities within the available resources in a manner consistent with the operating environment: the conditions for general military service are safeguarded. The entire serviceable male age group will be trained. The aim is to maintain the number of day-a-days of military personnel and the number of refresher exercises in the reserve at the 2016 level. The number of flight hours and Navy days will also remain at the level of the current year as a rule. A total of EUR 2.824 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence. The total amount of expenditure is EUR 62 million less than in the 2016 actual budget. It can be said that this is imputed and is mainly due to the fact that the 2016 budget included a significant amount of expenditure on material procurement, which was later in 2013, 2014 and 2015 for 2016, in order to better match funding and delivery times. So the 62 million I have mentioned is not a real cut, but a change in the time when the material is paid for. A total of approximately EUR 914 million will be spent on material preparedness on military defence appropriations, excluding VAT expenditure. Of this, defence equipment purchases amount to EUR 480 million. In addition, approximately EUR 434 million of the Defence Forces’ operating expenditure appropriations are planned to be used for the maintenance of materials and equipment of troops. The share of expenditure in the Ministry of Defence's section of GDP forecast for 2017 is 1.31 per cent. This year it will be 1.37 per cent. The Ministry of Defence's section accounts for 5.1 per cent of total central government budget appropriations, compared with 5.3 per cent in the current year. Mr President! All in all, in a difficult financial situation for Finland:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u182	I would now ask those representatives who wish to participate in this part of the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u183	Mr President! I am still outside the timetable to see if there is a question of two or three minutes' speaking time. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen:These areminutes of speeches, but if later there is still a second or a third speech, at best
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u186	Mr President! Finland has made the right decisions in defence. In particular, the defence solution has been sustainable. Of course, the cuts referred to here by the Minister are extremely regrettable in the times we live in. In particular, a system based on universal military service, with all its repetition exercises, is a strong word in today’s world, even when it is driven down elsewhere — we have kept it, and we have been trying to develop it all along. The number of wartime troops is the 230,000. It was dropped. In this context, the Minister shall: Niinistö has argued in an interview, perhaps as a voice, that the number should be raised up. That would also mean more equipment and a little more money. Minister Niinistö, are you going to propose an increase in the number of wartime troops in the forthcoming defence policy report?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u187	Mr President! Dear Minister, in that Question Time we talked about nursing in social and health care, but in the same way the Defence Forces have agreed on the number of personnel per team to be 2.5 trainers. However, this has not happened now. At present, the Defence Forces have 550 training posts open and have tried to patch this up with an additional budget by providing money to hire contract soldiers. But now that I look at this budget book, page 257, it is said here that the number of staff to be recruited will be reduced by 50 person-years compared to 16 and the reduction will mainly be due to a reduction in the number of contract soldiers on a fixed-term basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u188	Mr President! Thank you, Secretary of Defense. This scarce budget aims to maintain the regional defence of Finland as a whole, in which general military service remains the most cost-effective and credible solution. Our western neighbour, Sweden, gave up this general military duty at the end of the last decade, and now we are planning to reinstate military service, for example because it has not been able to recruit enough professional soldiers. Finland’s defence now and in the future relies on a strong reserve. An important part of the further training of a strong reserve and the commitment to defence is voluntary national defence. I would like to ask Minister Niinistö: how will the Minister take into account the need for voluntary defence development in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u189	Mr President! Representative Ronkainen drew attention to an important issue. That voluntary defence organisation is once again the target of what is being cut, but I believe that the government parties together on the front will take care of this matter as usual. Second thing: Military crisis management is a big thing for Finns, and after all, the Finnish Peacekeepers celebrate the 60th anniversary this year. The positive thing is that there is an increase of almost 30%. A large part of it is taken by teams in Lebanon. Are there, however, some of these social shortcomings in connection with this UN peacekeeping mission? In time, as I recall, a veteran card is promised to the soldiers, but this is the other thing, replacing accident and service disability in crisis management tasks, at least I did not see myself in that part of the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u190	Mr President! The conditions for general military service are guaranteed, that is important. The number of day-to-day and reserve refresher exercises is maintained and the number of day-to-day flights and days-to-day vessels is also invested in equipment procurement. This is important. But then we have one party which, in this changing situation, is in a completely different direction. The Greens said that military service should be made entirely voluntary and, through it, yes — I personally believe — to defend the country as a whole. They have argued that 75,000 would be enough to hold the reserve and that half of it would be men and half women. I would ask you, Minister for Defence: if the Greens could do this, what would that mean for the security of our country and for the defence of the country as a whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u191	Mr President! I understand that this is now a referral to the Minister, and Mr Heinonen is doing some of his own political project here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u192	Mr President! It is not just a brief moment when Sweden made such a change, as the Greens are now proposing in Finland. So this is not a very far-reaching thing to talk about when you look back. In Sweden in a few years it was found that the change was wrong. However, when the party, which is quite significant in at least a few cities, aligns itself in this way, and yet their chairman's line, that they have the country's leading foreign policy debaters, Hautala, Haavisto and he himself
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u195	The Minister will be given the floor after about ten replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u196	Mr President! So delicious is the subject raised by Mr Heinonen that I shall confine myself to commenting that you should read my press release. I also made my own statement on this subject and, of course, I was just as surprised as the other parliamentary groups were by this proposal. But the minister said that mistakes were made last season. That's what they did. I agree with the Minister. It seems to be the case this season too. We still have a falling framework in the defence budget, and even if money is added to the various measures, at the same time some other item will be removed. That's how it goes with this budget. I agree with Mrs Kanerva, the chairman of the committee, that we do have such a limited budget with concepts at the moment. Soldiers and cops make savings, don't they? You can't ask how they're doing. It is always possible to ask how the citizens will fare after these savings. So I ask the Minister about security of supply and MPK: how does the Minister feel — we have Patria, we have many other industries — to ensure domestic security of supply? How we make sure
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u197	Mr President! First of all, we have a truly functioning general military service. And we are equally aware that our operating environment is changing and that our defence forces need to be up to date and to develop different operational security. There's been a lot of talk about cyber. Cyber defence requires both financial investment and sufficient expertise. Digitalisation is developing rapidly, and cyber defence is an important target. The physical equipment must also be in order. Finally, we live next door to Russia, and there are more than 1,000 kilometres of common border. It will certainly bring some challenges, and it is important that cooperation between the EU and Russia is further improved. Of course it will strengthen the security and the economy of Europe as a whole, and here we are as a factor and we are doing our best.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u198	Mr President! Mr Aalto's squirming about Mr Heinonen's question was striking. But, Minister, you are greatly appreciated on that reserve field. You have done well as a minister: the number of refresher exercises has been restored and you have defended the reservists in many situations. But the concern is this funding for voluntary national defence. I would like to ask: what kind of discussions did you have with the Government, the Government, on this voluntary defence funding, because we have to wait here until December?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u199	And the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee. — First the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u200	Mr. Speaker! On just the same subject, I would like to address the issue of the rules of parliamentaryism. This waste, which is cut off from voluntary national defence work every year, means that they will have to build their own budget plans for next year through the negotiations, in such a way that Parliament has repeatedly said that it clearly disagreed with it and has returned this missing part. This is Parliament, this is a demeaning of the role of parliament that the Ministry of Finance is carrying out here, and I regard this, in principle, as a highly questionable policy. My question is: does the Minister also think it would be a good idea, from a slightly different point of view than just the question of appropriations, to address the fact that this annual balling and the lack of a clear position on the part of Parliament is gradually being pushed into a different position?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u201	Representative Käärääinen and representative Mikkonen. — — — — Mr. Rollerman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u202	Mr President! I am not Vice-President; Mr Kari is Vice-President, but I am happy to take the floor, Mr President. I agree with this very serious speech by Mrs Kanerva on the budget for voluntary defence when this is a play every autumn. This is a little mockery, in fact, and yet relatively small money is spoken of within the budget. It's a millimetre, but when it's taken to the national defense field, there it is a very large amount of money. Secondly, it is also a question of Parliament's authority. Yes, this is a little worthless play — hopefully this will now send a serious message to the Ministry of Finance in the direction that this kind of game would end completely. Finally, Minister, when we have drawn up these bilateral cooperation documents with Great Britain and so on, what importance do you attach to these cooperation documents when they are, in a way, a combination of cooperation already taking place? What meaning do they have toward the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u203	I apologise to Mr Kar and, at the same time, grant him the floor. He's the vice president.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I will address the same issue as the chairman of the committee and the former vice-chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mrs Kääriäinen, on MPK's money. MPK needs them for its own activities, its large-scale activities, as is well known here in Parliament for its activities. But this gambling certainly takes up administrative time and resources as well as takes us politicians in the wrong direction, and in addition to that, MPK is conducting completely pointless negotiations at the moment, especially if and when Parliament decides to return the money to MPK. This mockery has got to stop. Funds have been transferred from the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence to the acquisition of spare parts and to the equipment side from the operating budget. It also tells us of the personal pain that is currently taking place within the budget within the Defence Administration. I would like the Minister to give us some perspective on this. After all, the appropriations for the refresher exercise have been returned to the working group chaired by Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u205	Mr Mikkonen and then Mr Blomqvist and then Minister Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u206	Mr President! The Greens' objective of voluntary military service is certainly a long-term goal and it is certainly not at this time. Instead, we have a strong reserve, and that is why we need to ensure that it is well-equipped, well-trained and well-trained, and it is good that it is now possible to raise this number of refresher exercises to such a level that the capability of the reserve is maintained. But, of course, the selective direction of military service can already be taken, and, for example, the experience of women who have attended the military service is good, and they are well motivated. In this context, attention was actually drawn to the fact that gender equality had been included in this budget book as a single element, and there were quite large differences in job satisfaction between men and women. I would have asked: have any measures been taken in order to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u207	Herr Talman! Jag instammer i den oro som flera ledamöter har uttryckt för de otillräckliga anslagen för det frivilliga försvarsarbetet och är också orolig över sättet på hur man respekterar riksdagens upprepade gånger vissade cereals i den rai frågan. Jag vill passa på att tacka ministern för att har fortsatt arbeta för ett fördjupat nordiskt samarbete. Det är ett bra jobb på det hållet, det kunde vi konstatera när vi besökte Sverige i går också.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u208	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kanerva, set a significant target for Finland's defence budget as a proportion of GDP, i.e. 1.5 per cent. We have had such a long-term average, and this should, of course, be the case. But considering military pensions, border guard expenditure and some other expenditure, this share of the Finnish defence budget is in fact slightly higher than this 1.3, which it will be about to be this year and next year. In my opinion, Mr Kääriäinen rightly said that the right solutions have been made in Finland's defence. General military service is the cornerstone of our national defence. He asked about the increase in the number of troops in the war, and this is something that will come back to us in connection with the defence report, but according to the information that has already been made public, I can say that this figure will rise, just because the interpretation made by the Chancellor of Justice allows us to use the garrison for dangerous tasks even after a certain training has been completed. Representative Taavitsainen drew attention to the objective set in the Defence Power Reform, i.e. 2.5 trainers per garrison team is a goal that needs to be achieved, and contract soldiers are part of the solution. Unfortunately, next year's money will not be as much as it should be. I would like to see a return to this issue through an additional budget, because it is a relatively cheap way of achieving this declared, important objective. Mr Ronkainen and several other Members of Parliament, Mr Pakkanen and Mr Kari and Mrs Kääriäinen and Mrs Kanerva, at least as far as I remember, raised this voluntary defence, and in particular the proposed budget cut of EUR 400000. I entirely agree with Mr Kääriäinen, who said that this is a worthless play. This has been repeated in Parliament since 2011, as I recall. This sum has been fully repaid in the course of Christmas in the actual adoption of the budget, and I really hope that will be the case this time again. But this is a matter of parliamentary authority, and I hope that the new Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, will be able to intervene and put the officials of the Ministry of Finance under control. Mr Heinonen referred to the Greens' security policy guidelines and Mr Mikkonen said that these were longer-term policies. I really hope that they are very long-term policies, because with the kind of amount that has been mentioned about the size of the reserve, I think between 75,000 and 150,000, the whole country will not be defended, and besides, there are still porridges and vellets on the green: the reserve is not the same as the number of troops of war. So here, let's just say, of the 75,000, they're supposed to make wartime troops, and that's a fucking lech game. I hope that such talks will no longer be spread by any responsible politician. Mr Kääriäinen asked what the significance of these defence cooperation documents was, for example, what was recently signed with Great Britain. They are more of an expression of existing cooperation, in a way political signals. They are not agreements in the sense that they are of legal importance, but they do give back to the civil servants of the defence authorities of both countries to cooperate. We are currently in the process of having such a cooperation document with the United States, and here we have largely followed the Swedish model; Sweden has signed such cooperation documents or declarations of intent with the United States and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u209	We're going to continue this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u210	Mr President! The capabilities of the Defence Forces are being developed within the available resources to meet the needs of the operating environment. And, as you said, Minister, the Defence Forces maintain and develop a regional defence system and universal military service throughout the country as a basic defence solution. The ultimate good thing is that the conditions for general military service are safeguarded and that the entire serviceable male age group is trained. It seems that this importance of voluntary military service for women has already been overlooked here, but I would have liked to ask again: how do you feel about it, and could it possibly be developed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u211	Mr President! As the Minister of Defence has told us and we can see from the budget, it is possible to train conscripts and reservists, even with this tight budgeting, to go through as planned next year, and that is a good thing. However, as has been said here in many other speeches, I too am very concerned about the cut in the budget proposal of EUR 400000, or around 20%, in the appropriations for voluntary defence work and training. For the overall security of society, voluntary defence organisations play an important role. The active role of the organisations in maintaining the fieldability of the reserve and in preparing for various disturbances and in maintaining the will to defend the country cannot be overemphasized, and I look forward and I hope and say from this debate that this appropriation will certainly return to this year's level in parliamentary deliberations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u212	Mr President! As far as the Greens model is concerned, I think it is very alienated from reality — especially now that many other countries have understood that the current model of Finland is the one that should be pursued and which is a functioning model. But the real question is about operating expenditure savings. At the same time as the appropriations for operating expenditure are constantly decreasing, international cooperation of great importance to Finland is increasing. Increasing international cooperation increases the need for coordination and planning, which is reflected in the growing workload of specialised defence experts and experts in particular. The themes are very specific and wide-ranging and require expertise, which increases the workload of experts. I would like to ask the Minister how we intend to ensure that work is sustained and that the quality of work is maintained in the defence administration during this challenging equation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u213	Mr President! As a further response to this floating debate: Special seminars can be held on foreign and security policy. They are certainly welcome for all of us. I understand that next year's budget is on the table. The party delegation is considering different long-term scenarios, and the parliamentary group is considering next year's budget here and now — they are also two different things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u215	Mr President! I would like to appreciate the diversity of the debate by continuing it. So the Greens had some sort of central committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u216	Vice-Chairman of the Defence Committee, represented by Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u217	Mr. Speaker of the Parliament! Extensive parliamentaryism has been the big unbreakable foundation of Finnish defence, national defence. We, all the parliamentary parties, are committed to defending Finland and building a common defence model. Indeed, at the end of the last period, there was a parliamentary working group that set the level of refresher training at a high level, which has now been successfully maintained, which has been subject to increases in the budget which have been made, but not so far as it was proposed. I would like to ask the Minister how it will be between 18 and 19, when we are in the budget framework, whether we will be able to keep the 18000 re-registration training days — in the framework, not just next year? And so much for the green model,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u218	Mr President! It is now time to give a fair confession to Minister Niinistö. Listening to the Minister's speech, it occurred to me that the minister is leading his ministries and troops in the traditional way. Faith in the legitimacy of our common cause seems to be strong — a good thing. Mr President! I too agree with those who are concerned about securing the working conditions for voluntary defence work. Voluntary national defence work is very important and it is important that active reservists also have the possibility in the future to hold firearms that are suitable for their operations. A good minister and a good government will see to it that, even in a tight budget, we reservers do not have to wear a model in Cajander. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u219	Mr President! The Government has made a decision in principle on the criteria for public food and food services and thus seeks to promote the demand for domestic food also in public procurement. The Defence Forces are a large source of food, and now that Parliament is also dealing with the procurement law, I would have asked the Minister of Defence: how have you and your administrative sector taken account of this Government's decision in principle, because unfortunately From time to time, even the Defence Forces have become aware that more could have been used in the procurement of domestic food?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u220	And the chairman of the committee, Mr. Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u221	Mr President! I am very friendly to the Greens and I think that they are a smart party and therefore I believe that the leading players, such as Pekka Haavisto and Krista Mikkonen, are the ones worth listening to when future defence and security policy policies are being taken. Minister, I have a question for you. We have an exceptionally difficult time ahead of us. Squadron 2020 and fighter acquisitions are a challenge the size of an iceberg before us. Any plans on how to tackle these? The second point is the bilateral agreements that you have discussed here. I now think it is necessary personally to include Germany as one of the parties to these bilateral agreements with which Finland could have a network of this kind to be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u222	I will give the floor to the representatives of Taavitsainen and Kääriäinen at this stage of the debate and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a few minutes. — Mr Taavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u223	Mr President! In his speech, the Minister promised an additional budget, which would then bring in these contractual soldiers. But I would ask: would it not be better, in the budget, to put this kind of fixed annual money, or should we try to make the budget look better, even though it is known that millions are actually missing? These contract soldiers can only be hired for a year, and they can be helped. In reality, however, we need the 500 or so permanent staff. The Savon Brigade, the North Karelia Brigade, has not now been suspended in vain for savings, has it? And then made this defense reform, with this 2.5 trainers per team
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u224	Mr. Speaker! Mr Kanerva has already told us that the Swedish budget is 1.8 times higher than in Finland. It's just like this. In view of this, Finland has arranged its own defence in a very effective way. This money is used to manage the defence of the country, to provide official assistance and then to participate in crisis management activities and to ensure the defence of the country as a whole. Yes, this money is being spent in a very efficient way, this little money. This aspect of principle. All budget appropriations are very important. They all have defenders. These are the necessary appropriations. I do think that the money that is put in defence of the country is in a way a condition for us to have a welfare society in general. Good defence makes it possible for us to have a welfare society and then to have funds for various needs, education, day care, pensions and so on. I think that this aspect should be emphasised when we talk about the importance of defending Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u225	I will give the floor to Mr Mikkos and then Minister Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u226	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. To the corners of this presentation of the security of supply perspective and domestic procurement. The same thing lies ahead when we consider these future material acquisitions, we have big acquisitions ahead of us in the Defence Forces. How does it ensure that we also get jobs in Finland with these acquisitions and that they do not all possibly go beyond the borders? Then one thing I would like to raise: when the government started operating, we too had concerns about these appropriations for crisis management, because it was written in the programme that crisis management was being reduced. But it was promised that the additional budgets will be used to finance it, and that is quite what has been done — thank you for that. And thank you also for the fact that this 1325 UN resolution on women, peace and security has been included in this budget book, and that is what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u227	Now, Minister Niinistö, if 2 minutes is all right, and then the closing statement, 2 minutes, in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u228	Mr President! Representative Louhelainen asked about the importance of women's voluntary military service. It does matter. In particular, we need women for international crisis management tasks. In a delightful way, the number of applicants has increased this year. Personally, I am and the party I represent believes that we could consider including women in the invitations in order to spread national defence awareness, especially this possibility of voluntary military service. Representative Viljanen was concerned about the appropriations for voluntary national defence. The ball is indeed in the Parliament, and I hope for a positive outcome. After this debate, I trust that this issue will be resolved in a favourable way. Representative Pelkonen asked about the workload of experts in the defence administration. Of course, we conduct job satisfaction surveys and follow the situation, listen to the field. But, admittedly, since the reform of the Defence Forces, when staff were reduced from more than 14,000 to the current 12,000, the workload has increased considerably. In my opinion, Mr Kari rightly referred to broad parliamentaryism. It's an important foundation. The Kanerva Group, which completed its report in 2014, is a great example of this, and I hope that it will be equally successful in seeking consensus for the parliamentary monitoring group led by Mrs Kääriäinen. Consensus is extremely important in defence matters. National defense is our business. Representative My corner asked me about the Defence Forces and the food. In principle, this falls under the responsibilities of the Lion Catering. I admit that it would be good to have more domestic food, and I am sure it is a matter for the Lion Catering to pay attention to. Mr Kanerva asked about these major strategic projects. They are the fleet 2020 and the HX project. They are intended to be managed by separate funding, which cannot be made from the defence budget. I agree that Germany should be included in this network of cooperation agreements, in which, moreover, there are currently also Estonia and Poland, which are key partners for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u229	Mr President! Invitation check is held for almost the entire age group of young people. We know that young people at risk of exclusion are one of the risks in Finland, and I would like to ask: how effectively are young people identified as at risk of exclusion, for example, directed — and directed — to follow-up support? The second point I would like to ask is that of stem cell therapy. Stem cell therapy requires young, healthy donors, and healthy young men entering the intimacies could be one such age class that we could use more effectively. So with regard to stem cell treatments, has such things been more intensely displayed in the administration of a spit-cup cell sample, considering these call-in checks?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u230	Mr President! Security of supply is an essential part of the defence of our country. I would like to thank the Minister for the rigid decisions that have been taken with regard to security of supply, especially in the management of the life cycle of explosives. The fact that we retain the workforce in our own country remains a matter of immense importance. But security of supply is also extremely relevant to our future purchases, these big ones, and the fact that we have the domestic defence industry in Finland, and Patria is an integral part of the defence work. That is why I am asking, among other things, about this fleet 2020: how much of this you believe we can do by means of domestic industry and domestic industry, so that we can achieve the greatest possible slice and employment impact for us as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u231	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for a firm line as the EU tries to push Finland behind its weapons directive. The work is still going on, it is not done, but the defence needs to be trained and weapons are needed for the exercise. But, as noted earlier, defence in Finland has indeed traditionally been managed through a broad consensus. So I am very concerned about the Greens' line. We have still not received an answer in this Chamber, which is the long-term period in which they are planning to put an end to the military system in practice. This is very bad for the Greens' overall sudden foreign policy. When will we get an answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u232	Mr President! In terms of overall safety and security of supply, the word "resilience" is increasingly used. It is important to define things, and I have noticed that this word is a little vague. Is there any way you want to interpret it in English? Is there a Finnish word in use? Then a little bigger, bigger question. The security situation in the Baltic Sea has changed, there is much more activity than in previous years. The Defence Forces are one of the largest training organisations in Finland, but the Defence Forces also have a contingency mission. Is it conceivable that the initial staff will be faced with an increased preparedness task, thereby reducing the pressure and opportunities for participation in education and training? Is there a situation like this, and if so, will it appear in this budget book?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u233	Mr President! I myself am also one of those who consider universal military service and a large reserve to be an excellent alternative to the Finnish defence system, and it also guarantees that a good and trained team will be sent there for international crisis management missions. If these did not exist and would go to this selective option of the Greens, then — a little as I support Minister Niinistö’s saying — this would be a lech game. It's kind of a catchy saying about their options. How long is the idea of the Greens? It's five years from yesterday's TV show when they change their plans. Yesterday, at least on TV, it was suggested that five years ago this issue was already on the table. We're moving now, maybe five years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u236	Mr President! I would like to continue with the debate we started yesterday at Studio A on the tainted defence of the Greens. I would like to ask Mr Mikko when, in your line of work, you are proposing the abolition of the general military service and now you yourself have said — a verbatim quote — that 'it is not appropriate at this time': what other policies of yours relating to defence or the security of Finland are such imbeciles and, in your opinion, do you not actually think that they are appropriate to be carried out, and are perhaps some of your other programme papers such that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u237	Mr President! I would like to ask the same question as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, about these large acquisitions: 1.2 billion for ships, 5 to 9 billion for aircraft, perhaps. This budget, which is intended to finance these, is said to be outside the spending limits or by means of separate funding. Such concepts are, of course, cultivated in a situation where it is a little painful to find this money. I also understand this very well, as a representative of the opposition — the projects are large and the funding is large. But could the Minister of Defence now begin to open, at least for ships, and possibly give a little description of how this large-scale aircraft renewal can be financed? And I would like to renew the previous question about the level of repetitions in 18 and 19: can this level be maintained?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u238	Mr President! We can also look at this from the point of view that there are two undesirable developments: on the one hand, the resources allocated to defence are decreasing year by year, and on the other hand, the threat that our country sees is becoming increasingly darker and darker each year. Would it not be time, however, to turn this sled and start investing more in national defence? Do you think, Mr Minister, that the basis has now been reached and that we should now change our attitude on this matter? As a development idea, now that this hybrid influence and information war, psychological operations are on the surface, all kinds of information influences are taking place even during the peace period, and I believe that there is a lack of a strategic communication plan for the state: could the defence sector be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u239	Mr President! In his opening speech, the Minister stated that it is now time for the Army to acquire equipment. The Ottawa agreement was a very big mistake and a fatal decision, if you think of the credible defence of Finland. After all, the agreement prohibits the use and manufacture of landmines. My question to the Minister for Defence is: have we considered, or even found, a substitute technology or equipment that would fill this big black hole and allow the Defence Forces and the ground forces, in particular, to rely even more on their equipment and performance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u240	Mr President! The Minister referred here to the invitations, to which both girls and boys would be invited, would be some kind of invitation to the future. Is this a matter of longer thought? Is there any plans to move in this direction in some time frame? There is also the question that Minister Häkämies had Risto Silasmaa and her working groups do such a program to improve the sense of the military service. I understand that tens of suggestions were put together by Silasmaa. What image do you have, Minister Niinistö, has this plan, the programme, been implemented most or all of it? What's unfulfilled?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u241	And the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u242	First of all, Mr President, the question is that today we have come to know that the President of the Russian Duma, Sergey Naryškin, is going to be in charge of Russian foreign intelligence. In this context, it also raises the question — not this point, but we know his political competence — whether this point, when it comes to mind, also means that, in Finland, we can openly say that, according to the estimate by the Minister for Foreign Intelligence of the Finnish military, has been properly managed and whether there is also a legislative need for development. The second question: How much weight do we attach to the fact that foreign peacekeeping, crisis management operations have room for Finnish expertise on the Esa Pulkkinen road? In other words, we have a good history, but do we also have a strong future here, because it is of enormous importance to our authority internationally?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u243	And Mr Tanus, and then the minister gets three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u244	Mr President! During the military service, many, many good skills will be learned that would certainly be necessary for all of us, and I think that in different crisis situations, different civic skills could be very necessary and exploitable. I would like to ask the Minister: has there ever been a speech or a plan for the Defence Forces, for example, to have some broader education for citizens in certain good civic skills that could be of use in crisis situations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u245	And now, Minister, if three minutes would be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u246	Mr President! In his first question, Mr Tanus addressed the risk of exclusion and how it would be detected at the invitation. I am not an expert, but the military service itself prevents exclusion in a researched way, and it is also the best integration for immigrants, at least in my opinion. The question of stem cell therapy: honestly, I do not know. Then the latter question of Mr Tanus related to civic skills in crisis situations. This is certainly what we need, and I do not deny it at all. Representative Savola and representative Kari asked about this Fleet 2020 project and security of supply. I do think we are well placed to produce these hulls in Finland. We are in the process of concluding a letter of intent with Rauma Marine Constructions, and we will see if it will lead to an agreement, but it is important to us, for the sake of security of supply, that we retain know-how, because we need ships that, among other things, have to go on ice and have to be able to mine. These are abilities that the rest of the world has little to do with. The representative Kiuru asked for the Finnish version of the resilience word. Indeed, a good translation has not yet been found. That means such a society’s endurance, tolerance, could playfully call it the tournament’s endurance. But I accept suggestions to get a good English translation of this important word for the defense report. Mr Pakkanen asked about the situation in the Baltic Sea, especially in Gotland, where Sweden has recently decided to deploy 150 military units. I must say that figures of this size are far from the figures of the Cold War, but in any case this shows Sweden's desire to defend Gotland and, from our point of view, of course stabilises the security policy situation in the Baltic Sea, because a military vacuum tends to be filled in crisis situations. Mr Kopra asked if the base had been reached, referring to the defence budget. It has already been achieved this year, it has already been achieved, and it is through the increase of EUR 150 million focused on the material of this Kanerva, which will be allocated to defence by 2020. But these operating expenditures are the problem we need to focus on in the defence report. Mr Ronkainen asked about the Ottawa agreement on the technology to replace anti-personnel mines. It is true that we have not been able to fully cover this regional and deterrent effect with mini-airplanes and sensor equipment and anti-clearing and fan charges, which has been eliminated by the destruction of anti-personnel mines, but we expect that, through innovations in the domestic industry, we will have some sort of example in the coming years, in particular, to improve this deterrent effect among the Army. Congressman Kääriäinen asked about the invitations to the future. This was the debate we had during the last government negotiations and hopefully we will also be holding the next government negotiations and we will be able to move forward on this issue. Most of the targets set in the Silas report have been implemented, some of which have not been implemented, such as the pension for conscripts. Then there was Mrs Kari's question about the level of refresher exercises, and yes, it is a political priority that in 2018 and 2019 the refresher exercises will remain at this current level of 18,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u247	The D.O.D.'s main class is over. Let us now move on to the general debate on the budget, to the list of speakers there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u248	Mr President! Parliament has therefore been discussing this whole week and tomorrow will be discussing this budget for next year. In economically difficult times, it is neither fun nor easy to be in decision-making shoes. Every party in this Chamber has, in turn, been responsible for the government and certainly tried to do its best. In this work, small pieces must be able to see and build an overall field in which the euro should be placed equally. The financing of the Finnish welfare society is based on balanced economic development, provided that economic growth is achieved. Unfortunately, the Finnish economy has been shrinking in recent years. We now need the courage to carry out structural reforms in order to make the economy rise. The country's budget proposal for next year is therefore EUR 55.2 billion, of which the new debt represents approximately EUR 5.5 billion. At the end of the year, central government debt is estimated to be EUR 111 billion, i.e. approximately half the budget for this year. That EUR 55 billion will be distributed between the administrative sector of 11 different ministries, Parliament, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister's Office. For the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the proposed appropriation is as much as EUR 14.6 billion. That is EUR 1.5 billion more than in this year's budget. By comparison, the Ministry of the Interior accounts for EUR 1.5 billion of the budget, which is divided into 49% for the police, 16% for the Border Guard, 5% for the rescue services and the Emergency Response Centre and 22% for immigration. EUR 2.8 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence, EUR 6.8 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture, EUR 2.5 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, EUR 3.2 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, EUR 2.9 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and EUR less than EUR 1 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. Mr President! These figures show that services and structures financed through the social and health sector are so much larger than other administrative sectors. For example, 31% of pension expenditure is spent. A total of EUR 4.5 billion is proposed for pensions, which is EUR 47 million more than in this year's budget. Persons over 60 years of age who have been long-term unemployed for more than five years will receive a one-off pension benefit with a net effect estimated at around EUR 38 million. A budget of EUR 4.1 billion is proposed for the compensation of family and housing costs and basic income support, which is more than EUR 730 million more than this year. Almost EUR 2 billion is proposed to finance health insurance, which is also EUR 0.7 billion more than this year. Mr President! The Social Insurance Institution of Finland (Kela) is an independent social security institution under the supervision of Parliament, through which the majority of Finns receive benefits. The benefit expenditure on social security managed by Kela last year amounted to EUR 14.3 billion — an increase of around 2% compared to 2014. Next year, costs amount to approximately EUR 15.6 billion, of which EUR 3.5 billion in national pension insurance, EUR 4.8 billion in health insurance and EUR 7.2 billion in the general fund for social security. Mr President! Here are a few figures in euro which confirm and illustrate a little that the funding of social and health services will also be made available next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u249	Madam President! The long-standing economic downturn in Finland has been reflected directly in public finances. Finland’s longer-term growth prospects are weak due to the prolonged recession, the decline in the working-age population and structural change in industry. The growth in public debt is worrying. At the end of 2017, central government debt is estimated to be EUR 111 billion, which is 51 per cent of GDP. Interest expenditure on central government debt is estimated at EUR 1.3 billion, which is approximately EUR 0.2 billion less than estimated for 2016. The draft budget for 2017 is EUR 5.5 billion in deficit, which is covered by additional debt. Last season, the government made so-called easy decisions. As a result, public finances deteriorated alongside general economic development. The overall picture of 2016-2018 is very weak for economic growth. The reason for this low growth is that the development will remain weak throughout this period. The development of exports will continue to be a factor in world trade and thus the loss of market shares in international trade will continue. Employment and entrepreneurship are at the heart of the government’s activities. The Government’s objective is to phase out indebtedness in public finances and to promote sustainable economic growth that improves employment. Mr President! The main objective of growth policy is a sustainable high level of employment. The employment rate will be raised to 72 per cent during the Government term, while the number of employed will increase. The number of employed persons is estimated to increase by 0.3 per cent and the unemployment rate is estimated to fall to 8.5 in 2017. Mr President! Finnish taxation has been criticised as too high and hard. Despite the tightening of taxation, tax revenue growth has been lower than expenditure growth. Several tax-reducing changes under the Government Programme will be implemented in 2017. In addition, taxation will be reduced to support the Competitiveness Pact. The focus on taxation is shifted from taxation on work and enterprise to harmful taxes. The overall tax rate will not increase during the parliamentary term. In this way, tax reduction will also improve the position of companies through improved purchasing power. Mr President! The budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is large. After the administrative branch of the Ministry of Finance, this is the second largest appropriation — 26.4% of the total budget. It is a question of the well-being and quality of life of Finns. Social and health policies also support the rise in employment rates and labour productivity by taking care of well-being at work and the health of workers and their ability to work and work. In particular, I welcome the fact that EUR 75 million more is being proposed to municipalities to support informal care and EUR 15 million more to family care than in the 2016 budget. The stakes are significant. I welcome the compensation of EUR 2500 for the costs of parenting as a lump sum for the employer. That's a good thing. The distribution of labour markets into the occupations and sectors of women and men will also be mitigated by measures to promote employment and entrepreneurship, among other things. Mr President! I think it is very good that we are setting up a cancer centre. When I was in the opposition, I took a few action initiatives in this regard, and it is great that this is progressing. Today the latest Roosa tape, designed by the rock legend Michael Monroe, was released. I hope that everyone will put on a tape of Roosa to fight cancer and raise this important issue. I very much welcomed Minister Rehula's comment on the updating of the quality recommendation for older people's services. He said that everyone could send messages to the Minister in what way they would like the quality recommendation to be developed and what they would like to see recorded. This is a very open and good approach. Finally, I would like to raise the good expertise of Finnish nursing staff in older people's work and gerontology. They've been worried about it here. Local nurses, carers and geronomists are those who work for the elderly in the future who are there to help people, and their education is extremely high-quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u250	Madam President! The debate on next year's budget is starting to come to an end in this Chamber. These speeches may have led to the conclusion that we in Parliament are well aware of this current situation. The total of next year's budget, EUR 55.2 billion, will be covered by debt at around 10% and the rest by tax revenue. Unemployment is currently one of the biggest bottlenecks and problems in our society. At the moment we have 342,000 unemployed according to the latest statistics. Fortunately, this has fallen by some 4200 from the corresponding period last year, but the worst is that long-term unemployment and unemployment among people over 50 have increased. The positive thing is that unemployment among under 25-year-olds has fallen. Next year's budget can be seen as a budget for employment and work. Government action is aimed at raising employment to 72%. This can only be achieved by supporting entrepreneurship, by aiming to increase the number of generational exchanges by supporting them, by improving entrepreneurship and the conditions for entrepreneurship by implementing a 5% entrepreneurship reduction, and then by helping many entrepreneurs to move towards a payment-based approach to VAT. The competitiveness pact that has been reached in our society is also an important step forward in that we can move towards that target of 72% employment. Closely linked to the Competitiveness Pact, the tax cuts that will be directed specifically at people with low and middle incomes, and as we all know, they will therefore be largely based on consumption. One way to improve entrepreneurship is also to extend the household allowance. Of course, when extending the household allowance, attention should also be paid to how simple it would be to employ individuals. It would be much easier if people could pay one sum to a single account, from which the side costs of the job could then be taken care of, and then the rest to the employee. Madam President! Agriculture has been talking to us throughout this year, and this budget and the amending budget that will be adopted during the autumn will be accompanied by an agricultural crisis package. It's necessary. We all know that the agricultural situation is very difficult. This budget will also make it easier for agriculture by making the entrepreneurial reduction, which will be implemented, help agriculture with some 20 million, and then last spring's spending limits decision of EUR 34 million now combined with this 50 million of the crisis package will increase the income flow of our agriculture by over EUR 100 million compared to the situation a year ago. Then, too, advances in agricultural aid payments and other temporary measures make it possible for agriculture to overcome this serious situation. But we all know that it will not be easy. Solutions need to be sought, among other things, in the European Union, where restrictions on production would be one of the measures that could facilitate the situation. But, for a large part, domestic solutions influence what the future of agriculture is. Domestic food quality issues affect consumer solutions, and then the fact that origin labelling will now be extended to processed products will have a key impact on ensuring that when consumers buy products they can be sure that they are domestic, high-quality products. However, the functioning of the market is a key element in the distribution of income flows between agriculture, processing and trade. And then the dismantling of bureaucracy is also one of the ways in which the agricultural situation can be made easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u251	Madam President! The budget for 2017 has gone very well and very smoothly. Of course, the opposition has a good understanding of its role, but I do not see it as a problem, because, nevertheless, we have seen the belief in the future which is included in the budget. Prime Minister Mr Sipilä himself has said in this draft budget that he is pleased with the draft budget, because things were brought in with which to build the future with confidence. The first thing that marks this overall picture of the budget is definitely this competitiveness pact. This competitiveness pact creates the possibility that we can believe in economic growth in this country, but this growth will not come naturally. This is not yet written here in the budget book in such a way that we can leave things to ourselves and, as it were, begin to rest on our laurels, that is not acceptable. We must first ensure that all the economic opportunities in this country are genuinely put into practice. Let me give you a few examples, Madam President: First of all, energy. I cannot understand in any way that the construction of the basins of Vuotos and Kollaja in this country is more or less like a sacred stone that no one can touch. After all, it is incomprehensible in this country that we are paying between EUR 200 million and EUR 300 million for wind power and, at the same time, we are closing our eyes to such huge already harnessed constructions, which would not cost the state a single euro, on the contrary, the State could collect taxes on them from now on and huge amounts during construction. If we ourselves were to manage our own household in this way, every household in Finland would have gone bankrupt long ago. Secondly, agriculture. I cannot understand the fact that 300,000 people in the workplace are playing a little bit like I found on my wrists in this country, that agriculture will probably survive, even though there are a little bit in the spirit markets. Agriculture needs a clear, long-term policy in this country, that we can be confident that domestic food will always maintain a good competitive position in this country, and it will also be a huge export asset in the future. It is absolutely certain that the world's demand for food will increase as the population grows, and above all, Finland will be able to provide what is not in any other country in the world: completely clean soil, air and water. It's a competitive asset for us that never gets old. As far as forestry is concerned, I have been following up on this self-pollution which is currently being done in this country. At the moment, it is mainly about the sustainability criteria for renewable energy that we are trying to write through the European Union in a form that would make the use of domestic wood more difficult. This kind of unpatriotic activity in my head can't possibly fit in. We must understand that the Finnish tree must be able to make maximum use of it. It's for the good of the entire nation. Whether it's beat up by the Utsjoki or beat up by Ilomantsi or even Hankonniemi, it doesn't matter, as long as we make sure that our domestic opportunities are used. If the forests are not used, then the future of the Finnish people will be much more obscure than it is at present. Then the turf thing is also close to my heart. I cannot understand that a nation called Finland, which owes more than EUR 100 billion, dares to waste an enormous amount of energy. Everyone can test the wisdom of this decision. Go to the Norwegians and show them that you cannot use your natural gas resources or your crude oil resources because it pollutes the environment. This is a question that everyone is asking themselves tonight, and you understand how big this is. The mining sector has also gained some wings in recent years, partly thanks to perhaps a little, but we must also remember that we do not have domestic mining companies. All the added value of metal, soil wealth, which comes, currently goes abroad, with a few exceptions, because mining companies are almost invariably foreign-owned. For example, the economic value of Sakat’s huge mining area, which is of course still unused, has been assumed to be even greater than the value of Outokumpu’s mine in its time, and it was a huge EUR 100 billion mine effort in that country. Finally, Madam President, the fact that the potential of the whole country must finally be put in place. I am tired of understanding what we all need to focus on here in Helsinki, because there are no raw materials here. If anyone imagines that by raising the price of housing and gambling on the stock market this country’s debts have been paid, I dare to disagree. Last but not least, Madam President, the maintenance of services in this country is essential for all citizens. Good things are included in the Sote reform. It must be reformed, but it must not become a procedure for the depopulation of rural communities. It cannot be that a municipal health centre is closed because it does not just fit the plan. In principle, everyone should have services, as the aim of the social welfare reform was originally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u252	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health was in that debate some time ago and, unfortunately, when I was unable to speak, I wanted to comment briefly on it. I welcome the decision to abandon the increase in early childhood education fees after the evaluation. Their effects would have been negative from a number of points of view, from the point of view of ordinary families as well as from the point of view of municipalities, and it was not worth going to. Now the government also decided to reduce the fees for day care and early childhood education for the lowest-income families, and it is an important choice of values at such a difficult economic time. In addition, vaccination with chickenpox in the national vaccination programme is important. It will practically eradicate chickenpox in Finland for a few years. The transfer of students to general housing allowance is also positive. And then, from that point in the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, I would also like to raise and thank this increase in the rehabilitation allowance for war veterans and the calculation of the percentage of disability for war veterans. I fully agree with what Mr Savola said earlier in this Chamber, for example, that we would have a good time and a high time now to give up these percentages and give these valuable services, the services they deserve, to all veterans. The Kriha veteran program is on the move. This year, every crisis veteran receives a Kriha veteran card, but now the budget lacks that — not a very significant sum, that is, from an economic point of view, but very significant from the point of view of these men and women — and I do appeal to the Ministry of Finance and the government of our country that the supplementary proposal will bring that to the end of the budget, i.e. the Kriha veteran programme as a whole. Often, this debate has been hampered by the fact that we are just pushing against it and not introducing alternatives. When we tell them what the Greens have been saying in public, they get hurt and angry. The Greens have first outlined and since then squirm here in the Chamber — and now no one is there to answer these questions. In my opinion, this is quite an important question and a message for Finns is important, and many Finns are also listening to this debate. In our country there has been a policy and there has been a consensus that there is also a desire to take care of the whole country from the point of view of national defence. The defence of the whole country has been an important principle for all of us, and now the Greens are breaking away from this. I think it would have been a good idea now to have a clear answer to what kind of time frame we are talking about: whether it is Mrs Pakkanen's five years, or whether it is 50 years or 100 years. It was unclear, and people are worried about it. That is why I personally hope that this debate will take place. The Greens also said that military service is not only a violation of human rights but also an identity-forming practice. And taking the reserve to that 75,000 men would be fatal from the point of view of defending the entire country. It is a good thing that Minister of Defence Niinistö told us what it would mean in everyday life, and it has now become clear. Now Finns also have the opportunity to evaluate the parties and the different options of the parties. I personally support this general line so far, which concerns the country as a whole and takes care of the general and uniform military duty, so that our country will be safe in the years to come. Mr President! Finally, I agree with the opinion of the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, on the reduction in the appropriations for voluntary defence. I fully agree that such an almost theatrical cut in certain appropriations every year, once we know, trusts that Parliament will return them, does not really make any sense. I myself would like to see that today, in this debate, it could have been announced that this appropriation, for example, will be returned by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u255	Mr President! Perhaps the quietest part of the draft budget, a kind of emperor without clothing, is the cost of immigration. They are not spoken of by the opposition, what I wonder, and they are not even spoken about by the government, except for the Finns. However, without the increased immigration costs, our borrowing would be much lower and/or we would have to cut significantly less benefits and spending. The cost of immigration is a major burden on the national economy despite its temporary decline. Unfortunately, within the framework of current legislation, we cannot directly decide how many asylum seekers we will have. But it is up to us to decide how much money we spend per person — the unit cost. In last year's debate on the budget, I made a number of speeches calling for a reduction in the unit cost of immigration and asylum. These costs have now decreased from 2015 to 2016, and most points also show a decrease for 2017. I can thank you for this, but at the same time I can also say that it is a matter of a large part of the dismantling of the expensive, urgent and non-competitive reception centre agreements. Mr President! So these measures are certainly not enough. New ways must be found to cut the unit costs of immigration. It is morally impossible not to operate on them when other operations are performed. Reductions in expenditure must be found through the calculation of service levels and the rationalisation of operations. There is also a problem with the cost assessment of their dispersal into different parts of the budget. I therefore call on the government to take the measures already agreed at the outset to analyse the costs of immigration so that they can be examined and, if necessary, cut at the overall level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u256	Madam President! This budget referral debate has indicated that an overall understanding of the overall picture of our country's economy, the impact of employment measures and scarce resources is gradually beginning to reach the other side of the Chamber. We need more than a real policy of responsibility for a decade. Implementation of the budget is primarily about how we streamline decision-making, whether we are able to dismantle and reform the structures of the public sector and the labour market, and with what tools, incentives we increase the employment rate and increase exports. At the same time, we need to reduce expenditure growth, and the final question is how we will have the faith in the future to deliver on what the resources below the current level will be. In accordance with the Government Programme, we aim to make Finland the safest place in the world to live, try and work. In order to achieve this, we are expected to make choices about how scarce resources can be used most effectively. In this Chamber, we share our concerns about the inadequacy of internal security resources. For example, some of the crime prevention tasks put a considerable strain on the police, even though they do not significantly increase the sense of security. We must therefore be prepared to discuss and prioritise whether it is possible to prioritise the detection of certain crimes in terms of resources. It is good that Minister Risikko pointed out last week that a so-called service promise could be drawn up for the police, defining which services can be secured and implemented at what level of resources. At the same time, we should also be able to assess the legislative changes that have been made during and by the last couple of governments in recent periods. Mr President! As independent Finland turns 100 next year, the Sipilä Government will show the gratitude of all of us to veterans of our wars in such a way that the veterans’ promise of services and rehabilitation supporting living at home will be fulfilled. Next year, the free home open services for front veterans will be extended, and the supply will be extended to cover all domestic veterans. However, this is not only a resource but also an important place for information. There is no shortage of will or money in how it is done. It is an assessment of the need for and unexpected and unforeseeable changes in the open services of veterans in up-to-date municipalities, taking into account changes in service needs. Fortunately, the State Office has made procedures more flexible, and, among other things, the guidebook at the beginning of the year has made it possible for spouses to also have day-care with veterans. Many things, Mr President, could be raised from the budget, but I am actually raising just one point to this end: the Arctic. They are too marginal in this budget proposal, too, especially when it comes to how we make use of our specific expertise, important export and tourism networks and responsible environmental factors. Finland will start the two-year term of office of the Arctic Council next year. We are one of the eight Arctic countries and look north for many points and reasons. As a nation and as one of the most active Arctic states in the European Union, we must act in such a way that the importance and potential of Arctic issues are understood at EU level on a broad front. I therefore appeal here again to the Government to speed up the update of the Arctic Strategy and to demonstrate a state of will and, therefore, to allocate resources to these issues that are relevant to our future and to export. This budget debate is therefore a talk about Finland’s economy and state and future. To this end, I would like to highlight the research budget.fi web application published today by the Ministry of Finance. It is a good demonstration of the ability and will of the Ministry of Finance over the last few years to reform policies, to promote transparency and transparency and to discuss building the future. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u257	Madam President! Where does welfare come from? It derives from entrepreneurship, employment through entrepreneurship, tax revenues from this and tax services. If this chain is not in order, if we do not have viable, successful companies and if our companies are unable to employ, we will not be able to finance this welfare society of ours. This board of Juha Sipilä is an entrepreneur government. With this coalition of governments, we want us to be able to lift Finland out of the swamp where it has been for the past few years through entrepreneurship. Many of the authors of next year's budget specifically refer to it, and this budget book contains a number of good things related to it, for example - to mention a few - the generation changes in businesses and forestry farms will be better triggered, inheritance tax will be facilitated, parenting costs shared among entrepreneurs with a lump sum of EUR 2500, entrepreneurial deduction will be introduced, payment-based VAT will be introduced. The solutions that the Competitiveness Pact enabled us to bring in are factors that promote entrepreneurship. The extension of the household allowance is also a very important factor and also a deterrent to the informal economy. And in view of the Sipilä Government's bioeconomy tip project, all the resources we have in the forests, what we have in the countryside, what natural resources we have for sustainable use, we have in the future to raise this land up. Madam Speaker! When there was a debate here in the debate between the opposition and the government, taxation became a very central factor and there could be an understanding of left-wing speeches that we do not have better-paid people paying taxes at all. But for goodness' sake, Finland is also, according to OECD statistics, the fourth highest tax rate in the world. We have a huge tax rate, we tax a great deal. We tax work, and we have the progression to guide it, so that the more you earn, the more taxes you pay. And yes, this progress is also extremely drastic: when we encourage entrepreneurship and employment and thus success, at some point there will also be a limit when we have to say that there will be no more punishment for the work of those who, however, increase the cake of this well-being. We'll be in debt next year, that's still a bad thing. EUR 5.5 billion of our state budget must be filled with debt. The plan to cover this is to make us a non-debted country by 2021, but it will require a huge amount of work, and it will also require that these measures for entrepreneurship are produced and that we will thereby generate more tax revenue and then also catch up with our state finances when investment and growth comes into this country. Madam Speaker! Agriculture is not a trivial matter. We all eat, we also need our own domestic food from the point of view of security of supply, and work has been done on it. Now this crisis package of EUR 50 million is a good help to this emergency, but there is much more to do in that area. The dismantling of bureaucracy is one of the most important: It starves, it interferes with its basic work. Filling the labels of all the world, which is currently affecting the farmer, and the pointless work that all this regulation is doing, makes life very difficult for farmers. The inclusion and improvement of origin labelling will improve consumer confidence, and I appeal to all of us consumers to buy as many domestic products as possible and Finnish food wherever possible. Madam Speaker! On the subject of social security, I would like to finish by saying that the decrease in the percentage of veterans who are disabled and the EUR 20 million for veterans will come to the right address when Finland turns 100 next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u258	Mr President! This issue, the Government's budget proposal, deals with small and big issues in Finland, and beyond the borders of the country. In my speech, I myself would like to address the small but great issues that affect the most vulnerable people in this country. Just recently, a new draft procurement law was introduced to Parliament. It has been expected for a very long time, there are many good things, but one thing is very wrong: it still allows the services of people with disabilities and the elderly to be competitive in the future, not in terms of quality. Municipalities who are currently struggling in very difficult economic situations are waiting for that great social reform and, in this respect, they do not know what the future holds for them, they have to make very difficult decisions, and then often what the legislation makes possible will be put into practice. And that does not always mean that decent decision-making will then prevail. This is also true of the nurseship that the government has now wanted to go down against the opinions of all the experts. In 2012, all parties in this Parliament committed themselves to the Act on Elderly Service and to better staffing. It was decided at that time that, if at least 0.5-manufacturing according to the quality recommendation by the end of 2014, not all our institutions providing 24-hour care will be the minimum — of course it must also be considered manageable — then this staffing dimension will be laid down in the law. Now this government is counting it from that 0.5 to 0.4. Valvira, at the request of Prime Minister Rehula, drew up an opinion on the consequences of reducing the minimum requirements for the number of carers, and Valvira states very clearly in its opinion that when the minimum level of care is reduced, the right to good care will not be achieved, and Elina Uusitalo, who produced Valvira's statement of superior auditors, says that the reduction in the number of carers at its worst will even lead to dangerous situations. The THL has also commented on this government proposal and stated that the intended savings cannot even be realised in practice, as so few institutions have old people suitable for 0.5-management. I mean, there's been an increase in the treatment rate in the institutions. The elderly live longer and live longer in their own homes, which, of course, is a good thing for the elderly who survive there, but when there are a lot of the elderly who are no longer able to survive even with the help of adequate home care, then they are in very bad shape when they come to the 24 - hour care and care there. When we in Finland always want to compare ourselves — we pride ourselves on being at least on the same level as our neighbours — when we look at this Nordcare research project, the preliminary results have already been very clear that, for example, during the day shift, a Finnish care worker works with 12 customers on average, compared with 10 in Sweden and 10 in Norway and Denmark. 8. And in practice, this reduction in staffing, which we are now doing, means that 100 of the 20 carers will be abandoned. That is the fact of what this reduction in staffing will do. Just a little bit more big stuff. The past of child welfare has been studied in Finland, and I myself myself launched this survey. We have a lot of mistreated children who grew up in very inhumane conditions in child protection, now adults, and that is something that was being investigated. The report was submitted to Minister Rehula in the spring and immediately after the report was submitted, I asked Minister Rehula a written question. I asked him how he is going to proceed on this issue now, because it is not yet the report that solves anything — because in Sweden compensation has been paid in Norway, Denmark, many other European countries, again in our reference countries, it has been considered necessary to compensate these people for their suffering. But Minister Ruhula has not come back, although he promised to come back before the leaves are in the trees, and now the leaves are already falling out of the trees. You would like to see the representatives of the city centre here in the Chamber, so you say hello to the Minister that he will keep this in mind, not forget. These are small but really big and important things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u259	Madam President! Finland is still divided into two camps: those who are doing well and those who persevere day after day at the borders of basic income. Unfortunately, this government proposal supports this development. How is it possible that, in a situation where large sums of social security have to be cut and painful savings that have the greatest impact on the daily lives of those already on low incomes, the government, at the same time, is ready for income tax reductions, which clearly benefit more people with high income in euros? So tax relief in percentage terms, but extortion in the same amount for all income categories. Did it occur to the government that, in this situation, for example, there could have been some room for increased corporate taxation? Everyone sees that the previous corporate tax reduction from 26 to 20 per cent has not brought about the jobs promised at the time. Unemployment has only increased further. That tax relief amounted to almost one billion dollars in full as increased dividends to shareholders. There was no response. In this budget, those who already do the best will benefit most. Everyone can calculate how much the CEOs who enjoy the huge salaries of state-owned companies, among other things, benefit from this budget in euros. So let's not talk about a joint effort. With the hardest hand of all, this government is going to treat the sick and pensioners. The reductions planned for nurse measurements are like a freezing shower for older people who are already in a difficult situation. Is this how we value our fathers and mothers? The Christian Democrats are opposed to cuts designed for the elderly and the sick and hope that instead of government cuts, they will show humanity to our own parents and grandparents. Weaknesses, for example, should not be made with regard to the nurse’s measurements. Rather, it should be improved. I cannot help but point out that, while we have made decisions to despoil the old age of our pensioners, our pension funds have grown almost double in relation to sovereign debt. Pension money increases interest rates in foreign investments at the same time as our old people are forced to wait for urgent, human treatment or to fight for survival at or below the poverty line. You can only ask who eats and who eats from whose table. The budget of this government shows that the government is trying to save Finland from rising. Many cuts, such as cuts in education and product development, are unfortunately short-sighted policies. Hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren and students face real problems every day. Poor construction and the resulting mold problems are a real problem that affects the lives of both students and their teachers. It would take over a billion dollars to solve the problem. If the situation is not addressed, the problems will get worse and more and more schoolchildren and students will become permanently ill and suffer from the disease in the worst case for the rest of their lives. This problem must be tackled now and immediately. Home renovations should be launched as soon as possible, and sufficient money must be made available in the budget to deal with the problems. How balance is achieved depends, of course, on whether or not we are quick to implement, for example, the legislative initiatives that have been taken. I have submitted a bill signed by 116 Members of Parliament which would facilitate kidney transplantation, and I hope, for example, that this bill will be implemented as quickly as possible, because it will bring great savings in social spending. On the other hand, it is expected to save 3 billion dollars from the war, but if the government intends to implement the proposed reform of the alcohol law, we can safely say that the desired savings of 3 billion will fly right away. Finland's biggest problem at the moment is not just indebtedness, but saving ourselves to death and weakening the fundamental rights of our citizens. The strength of Finland has traditionally been and will continue to be that each of its citizens feels equally valuable. This must also take place when next year's budget is made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u260	Mr President! There has been a wide-ranging debate today on the budget, both in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and in the administrative sector of the Minister for Home Affairs and now most recently in the Ministry of Defence. To this last section I would like to make a few comments and withdrawals at this stage of the evening. A budget of 2.8 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence. It is 7 per cent more than the amount in the previous government budget for 2015. However, it should be borne in mind that the constant increase in costs and the need to increase the need for material procurements is greater than what it was in the study work of the study group led by Mr Kanerva and what was in due course anticipated. However, the budget will ensure that next year the training of conscripts and reservists can be carried through as planned and 18000 refresher training days will be completed. This autumn it is also planned to provide a defence report and it will be presented to Parliament in December. Military crisis management will receive additional money, about 30% of the increase in the budget, next year, it will come to the budget itself, and there will be more on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Appropriations for Finnish crisis management teams and their maintenance are budgeted from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Then the equipment and administrative costs of this military crisis management, as well as the costs of observer activities, come from the PLM's side. Next year, the military crisis management operation will focus mainly on Lebanon, UNIFIL, but Finland will also be involved in many other countries, including Kosovo, the Mediterranean region and Africa. Defence work and voluntary defence is an important part of Finnish peacekeeping and defence policy. Unfortunately, it will be allocated a cut of EUR 400000, but — as has been heard this evening, and I believe so — in December at the latest this matter will be decided jointly in this Chamber and these appropriations will be returned and voluntary defence work will be able to continue with normal resources. Minister Niinistö has said in the spring that this implementation of the Kriha-veteran programme is progressing in line with the objectives. And this is probably how it has been with the sending of Kriha-veteran cards that the card has gone to 40,000 Finnish Peacekeepers this year. On the other hand, this law on compensation for military accidents and disability in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is still at some stage and I hope that the money will still be available. In Finland, the national defence model, based on general military duty and a well-trained reserve, has worked well and enjoys widespread popularity among citizens and also here in the Chamber. It has been said that it is a very cost-effective system. Only the Greens today and the last few days have left this issue and we will see when we will hear what their response to this Finnish defence is. In the view of the Centre and myself, the non-membership of the military alliance is, at the moment, a sustainable policy for the next few years too, but it is good for NATO to maintain this idea of a partnership for peace, and the form of cooperation should be the option for the future for us, as well as for intensified cooperation with Sweden to provide us with broad security policy support, and so we can follow the events in the Baltic Sea together. This intensified cooperation is important for Finnish defence. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u261	Madam President! A few more comments I wanted to come here to tell you about what I am very happy about and what I have drawn attention to in this debate. In Finland, we have a patient safety strategy that has tried to prevent injuries and has drawn attention to this important issue. Last season, the strategy was being updated, but what happened? The delay in the reform of the social security system was such that the strategy could not be updated. Recently, we have had a lot of malpractices in the field of health care. There have been reports of mistreatment, which has been written in public writings, and there are very serious events that have even resulted in injuries to patients. I believe that the fact that we have abuse in the health sector is a very important issue to raise. It's a sensitive and difficult subject. As a nurse herself, having made a very long career, I know how difficult it is to talk about these things. They should therefore be spoken of in the same way that we talk about patient damage, without being ashamed or afraid or guilty of each other, because there is always a reason for behavior and events. Stress, a rush, which in the medical field are commonplace, is often one trigger. I took the initiative to propose that this updated patient safety strategy also takes into account the ethical principles of nursing work and the nursing experience. It is the treatment of a person, a person to be treated or his loved ones, who experiences something other than physical pain. Against this, we should do everything we can to get good treatment. Is it good treatment, then, that we have a lot of nurses, or is it that we have the right nurses in the right places? We are talking here about care for the elderly, but we also have acute care, we have hospitals, we have wards there. How are the nurses up there? So the question is about the whole care sector and health care, whether there is enough of us. As a nurse, I have to say that I have done everything in my power to ensure that there are no impairments. And realistically, having cared for the warring people in the late '80s and caring for the children of those warring people since the early 21st century — because they are the next generation to be cared for — I have found that it has not changed anything but people are the same, the basic needs and the quality of basic care are the same. With good training, we can respond to the need to take good care of staff and give them the best possible basic care and then respond to that acute need. A person in a long-term care facility should also be admitted to acute medical care if he or she is seriously ill there at the nursing home. So, yes, this is an important issue to maintain and an important theme. And you have to remember that even though the dimension of the quality recommendation is being lowered, it's just a recommendation. It has been a recommendation a year ago, two years ago, five years ago, since 2008, when such a quality recommendation was written. In other words, the real need for care needs to be assessed at the place of care, and we also have an old-age law that requires a certain number of carers to be present at the place of care. In other words, what we are doing now does not unhelplessly mean that nurses need to be reduced, but that common sense should be used there. This issue was also raised here in the debate. It is also an extremely difficult matter in that sense — it should be almost a flip chart and tell — that it is not a shift-specific one, we do not have many nurses at night. I myself have worked in such a way that only I have been there. It's a heavy responsibility, isn't it? And then there must be those options that will be contacted if there is a major emergency. Of course, the treatments are different. In that one speech I raised these rape crimes and was surprised that we often talk about basic rapes, but not about the gross ones. I asked a written question about it and asked for an answer as to how many gross rapes there are in these rising numbers. All in all, we are living in difficult times. We will have to think about the need to live with our mouths up to the sack, and we will try to do our best. Listen to small people and bring their message forward. The old saying says you can never be so proud that you are not prepared to change the decision that has been made. I think that we should also remember that we are also prepared to take different decisions, even to spin some.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u262	Mr President! With regard to border management and its appropriations: Plans were already discussed to limit the opening hours of certain crossing points at the eastern border, such as Imatra, from 24 hours a day only. I believe that this development is a cause for concern, because there is a lot of cross-border trade now, despite the difficult world situation and the deterioration of the rubles. What happens when times get better? How can we restore those borders to 24 hours a day? It is also an activity on the other side of the border and decisions on their side. There is a fear that this closure will lead to losses for industry and employment in Eastern Finland, where neither of us is feeling particularly well today. I would like to ask: can we reconsider this issue and find these small savings in euro somewhere else, such as the huge amount of immigration? This was not answered by the Minister for the Interior at section level, despite the fact that my concerns were shared by a number of other representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u263	Mr President! I believe that the budget as a whole is well drafted, but I would like to highlight some minor points which should be further considered. First of all, this state aid to 4H operations is falling again, once again, quite a lot, minus 16%, and yet 4H is one of the essential things that we can use to develop business in Finland, to raise young people in how we can get our natural resources to the best possible use and diverse entrepreneurial activities. Let us hope that more money will be made available for this in particular. But I think it is wrong that, year after year, this same issue will be discussed during the last week and small amounts will be made available at that stage — it should be quite fair to reserve it in the right way in the budget. The second point is the fraud that I am talking about every year. I am grateful that 7.9 million are now being set aside, which is a good thing, just as it was for this year. But we have to take into account the fact that last year, that is to say last year, the rest of the fraud damage, and then this year's fraud damage, this only compensates for part of it. So this will not be able to compensate for the real damage that will happen next year, but will move on to the next year. Reindeer men in particular will have to wait a very long time before they receive compensation for animals killed by predators. In general, this means that an average of 1.5 years goes by when the damage is done, that you only receive the damages for this damage. The next item is these fisheries promotion appropriations, which are to be reduced by 18%. It has been made clear in the budget that these fisheries promotion funds are entirely dependent on the amount of fisheries management fees to be paid, and now the situation is that our new fisheries law laid down such a decision that those over 65 years of age were exempt from the fisheries management fee. A fine thing in itself, but when a significant proportion of fishermen are over 65 years old — and more and more in the future — and we should be able to ensure that they too have fish and water bodies taken care of, I do suggest, and I hope that, as a budget law, we can change that for those over 65 years of age too. I bring this up as Chairman of the Confederation of Fisheries, because I am really concerned that our water management and management of fish will be reduced and weakened and that we will certainly not have Finnish water bodies for fish in good condition in the future when they are not in enough shape at the moment. With regard to the financing of reindeer husbandry, I would point out that less than one million are now being set aside for the construction and maintenance of reindeer husbandry fences on the borders of the land under reindeer husbandry agreements, but that is certainly not enough for what it should be. In other words, we are now in a weakened situation of reindeer herding at the borders of the kingdom and their condition is not going to last, which means that even more money is needed for this. The final point is the teaching of the Saami language. At the moment, we have a fairly modest budget for teaching the Saami language in the Sámi region, but we should now be able to raise the distance learning issues of the Sámi language more strongly as a point of our own, and especially these distance learning issues should be taken into account outside the Sámi region. As many as 60% of Sámi live outside the home region, a significant proportion of Sámi children are born to the south of the Sámi region. Resources are very limited, and knowledge and know-how for teaching this language are very limited. That is why we should be able to make a special contribution to the teaching of collage and inarisa, and that can only be achieved in such a way that we can increase properly, even if only a few hundred thousand euros, to this distance education in the Sámi language. This would require both distance learning material and a small budget for the way in which this training is received. As a smoke-saken person, I look forward to getting the teaching of the language of Inarisa taught at a distance and getting me and my children to study it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u264	Mr President! I would like to comment on the general debate on the budget in just a few words. In particular, we must be surprised at the speeches made by the Greens, who have all lost their security policy in the Chamber, frightened by the Swedish Government, and by the Left Alliance, whose representatives are all absent, apparently in the process of implementing the six-hour day. From their point of view, the government has criticised the funding of EUR 43 million for emissions trading compensation. However, the unions in the export industries, both from the employee and from the employer side, have called for this funding. I believe that jobs in the Finnish export industry are of paramount importance, and we cannot risk them. I believe in the expertise of the unions. Mr President, if we lose these jobs, the spending cuts are just beginning. That's not what I want to see. That's why I'm in favour of compensation. Contrary to the view of the Greens and Left Alliance, there will be no electricity from the wall or money from the vending machine, unless someone first puts it on the wall or the vending machine. As far as the social democrats, who, too, have all lost responsibility in the Chamber, everyone knows that the issue of a small Finnish entrepreneur is not close to them. However, I find it unreasonable for them to make accusations that the household allowance would be shoplifting or that only rich pharmacists would benefit from the entrepreneurial deduction. Tens of thousands of self-employed and other employers will benefit from this reduction in many industries. They are the ones we need if we are to bring about an increase in employment. I have also received a message that not all of those pharmacists are so wealthy. Many people receive much lower income than the hardwoods and still suffer from the effects of government-decided drug savings, which are much higher than the reduction. Mr President! Such intimidation and misleading information will not be used to build this country. Jealousy doesn't take you far as propulsion. Instead, I would encourage the opposition to understand that the situation is difficult and requires new thinking. Instead of feeling sorry for the wars, we could work together to consider, for example, how to make the number of nurses and the strength better. For example, an elderly person may be able to go out without years of training. These are the ideas we need.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-22-ps-88.u265	Mr President! It was a pleasure to hear Minister Risiko say in this debate that the internal security strategy will also take account of the safety of older people in the future. This is a step forward, because the previous strategy dealt with the subject very lightly. Only a few issues and fire safety themes were mentioned. Let me raise a few good things about this budget: Bringing a chickenpox vaccine is a good thing. The cancellation of early childhood education payments is of the utmost importance, as is the consideration of pensioners in the context of the competitiveness agreement's tax settlement. Increasing the tobacco tax is a good thing, and I am also in favour of raising the sugar tax. Free arrangements in the area of family and family care are very good. I was just visiting the first family home of elderly people opened in Lohja, and I must say that with what miracle we could bring out and encourage and inspire people to leave because I really went to a place where the spirit of the home was human and wonderful, and the elderly were allowed to spend their time there as if they were in their own home. You don’t have to wake up at seven or go to bed at ten if you’re not tired. Then there's this Lex Lindström, which is a really first-class thing. So we're going to put out those people who've been hanging there for too long. Then a little more about the success of Finnish companies and the fact that we have a lot of export opportunities in the bio, digital, cleantech and health sectors. In Espoo, right there at VTT in Otaniemi, we wait to see when the first robot car will be launched. It's already finished, and it's just waiting for the first start. Virikecards were introduced in Espoo — one representative raised the issue. At the initiative of the True Finns, family carers can swim for free. Why don't you take this to the county?
