ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 20 December 2016. In the debate, Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Ville Skinner, has proposed that the proposal for a statement contained in the report be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u2	Finally, a decision must be taken to approve or reject the draft statement contained in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 35/2016 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 20 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u4	Finally, there will be a vote of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u5	Madam President! When the government's unjust draft budget has not changed in a much fairer direction in these votes, I have to table the following motion of censure in accordance with protest 3:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u6	Mr President! I support Mr Uotila's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u7	With the support of Mr Li Andersson, Mr Uotila has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. In addition, the following proposals have been put forward in the debate on the draft budget for a motion of censure to the Government: Krista Kiuru sd Sanna Marin, supported by the Sd: "The Commission notes that the government has failed in its economic policy. The government has consistently neglected the promotion of employment and economic growth, which has led to an increase in inequality. Parliament therefore demands that the Government immediately bring to Parliament new corrective measures to improve the economic situation of our country and reduce inequalities. Parliament believes that the government has failed and does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." Ozan Yanar green Krista Mikkonen green: "The government's extensive cuts in education feed on our knowledge base and take the foundation away from future growth. The government's excessive cuts in social security weaken the position of low-income earners at the same time as new tax reductions are directed at the good people. The government's inability to reform the economy and reduce subsidies that are harmful to the environment undermines the opportunities for combating climate change and benefits from the opportunities for growth created by the energy transition. Cutting development cooperation and nature conservation is also a short-sighted policy that does not build a better future. As a result, Parliament states that the Government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." Mats Nylund r Mats Löfström's R support: "The Sipilä Government proposes massive cuts in education. Education cuts represent a real threat to the quality of education and research, to equality in education and to the competitiveness of our country. Nor is the government prepared to reform family-free, home care support and early childhood education, despite the undisputed need. In addition, the government cuts huge amounts of development aid. As a result of these cuts, development aid is only around 0.40% of GDP and cuts are directed directly at the most vulnerable people. Development aid cuts also endanger Finland's reputation as a responsible and reliable international player. As a result, Parliament states that the Government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." With the support of Peter Östman kd Antero Laukkanen kd: "In independent Finland, the unity of the nation and the ability of citizens to provide themselves and their families with adequate living and living standards must be maintained. Debt limits the independence of our nation, our municipalities and our citizens. The debt should not be accumulated for younger generations to pay. The government has not been able to reverse the indebtedness trend, but it has still made drastic cuts mainly towards the most vulnerable. They should not be made to pay for the harsh economic situation, who are already holding out on the fringes of livelihood. We must ensure that everyone stays in our society and feels that they belong. Finland’s success is based on equality of opportunity, good educational attainment and high competence among the population. The drastic cuts made by the government to education and knowledge undermine our country's chances of success. Repeated cuts to the poorest sections of the population increase dissatisfaction and mistrust of the democratic system as a whole and thus undermine social peace. As a result, Parliament states that the government has failed in its key objectives and does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u8	Firstly, we will vote against Mrs Kiuru's proposal against Mr Yanar's proposal, then against Mr Uotila's proposal, then against Mats Nylund's proposal, and against Mr Östman's proposal, which has won this vote. Finally, we will vote on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u9	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 30. The section debate was suspended at the plenary session on 20 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u10	Krista Kiuru's proposal 8 and Katja Hänninen's proposal 9 relate to the same appropriation, so first we will vote against the report that has won between them and then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u11	May Aalto's proposal 17 and Kari Uotila's proposal 18 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u12	Madam President! I meant to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u13	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u14	The general discussion on Section 33 ended at the plenary session on 20 December 2016. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u15	Krista Kiuru's proposal 18 and Kari Uotila's proposal 19 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u16	Mr President! I was going to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u17	Let's mark it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u18	Krista Kiuru's proposal 46, Touko Aalto's proposal 47, Kari Uotila's proposal 48 and Stefan Wallin's proposal 49 relate to the same appropriation. Firstly, 49 proposals against 48, then 46 against the winning proposal, 47 against the winning proposal and, finally, against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u19	As Parliament has adopted at second reading on 20 December 2016 the draft law contained in the Government's proposal HE 224/2016 on on-call reform referred to in proposal 51, it is no longer possible to refer the matter together with the social welfare reform as proposed. That is why I do not think I can put the proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u20	It went backwards. I'll fix it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u21	Mr President! The purpose of the vote was to vote 'no' in 56 votes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u22	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u23	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 35. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 20 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u24	Krista Kiuru's proposal 5 and the same content of Touko Aalto's proposal 7 and Kari Uotila's proposal 8 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against Amendments Nos 7 and 8 against 5, then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u25	Mr President! In paragraph 12, I intended to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u26	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u27	Mr President! In paragraph 13, I intended to support Mr Nurminen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u28	Mr President! I also intended to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u29	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u30	Krista Kiuru's proposal 16 and the same content of Touko Aalto's proposal 17 and Kari Uotila's proposal 18 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against proposals 17 and 18 against 16, then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u31	Let us turn to revenue and introduce Title 11 on taxes and parafiscal income. Detailed work will be carried out on these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u32	The intention was to vote differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u33	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u34	The idea was to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u35	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u36	May Aalto's proposal 46 and Antero Laukkanen's proposal 52 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u37	Madam Speaker! Paragraph 18 meant to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u38	Mr President! Uotila's proposal 19 — was intended to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u39	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u40	Paragraph 18 was meant to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u41	Let's mark the check, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u42	Title 13 on interest income, share sales and profit gains is now presented. Detailed work will be carried out on these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u43	The general arguments are now presented. In accordance with the procedure, a general discussion shall not be allowed. A detailed examination of the general arguments will be undertaken for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u44	Krista Kiuru's proposal 2 and Kari Uotila's proposal 71 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u45	Krista Kiuru's proposal 11 and Sari Tanus' proposal 81 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u46	Mr President! I meant to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u47	Let's mark it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u48	Mr President! In paragraph 48, we had to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u49	Mr President! In paragraph 49, I meant to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u50	Mr President! In paragraph 49, the intention was to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u51	Mr President! In paragraph 13, I intended to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u52	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u53	Mr President! I voted wrong in paragraph 72, which means that I should have voted 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u54	Madam Speaker! Paragraph 25 was intended to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u55	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u56	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 9/2016 vp, the position on the report will now be decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is one round of group speeches for up to 5 minutes. The Government’s statement will follow. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The debate begins, Mr Vanhanen, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u57	Mr President! The security and defence policy reporting process has a well-established role as a key tool for political guidance in Finland's foreign, security and defence policy. The report has also sought to ensure the broadest possible parliamentary support for security and defence policy policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u66	Then we will have the speeches of the parliamentary groups, which are therefore up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u67	Mr President! We live in a tense time in international politics. The Syrian war has again highlighted the weaknesses of the international community. Power and power politics are raising their heads. The security situation in Europe and the Baltic Sea region has also deteriorated, although the position of Finland can still be considered stable. During a restless period, it is particularly important that both the President, the Government and Parliament support the same foreign policy line. The establishment of a parliamentary monitoring group and its involvement in the preparation of reports in dialogue with the government also serve the objective of consensus. When the common foreign and security policy is based on consensus, the message that goes outside Finland is clear and unambiguous. Mr President! The main content of the report corresponds to the Centre's foreign and security policy for a long time. The Centre believes that Finland must promote stability in the Baltic Sea and the Arctic through its own foreign and security policy measures. The military non-alignment of Finland and Sweden has contributed to the stability and security of Northern Europe as a whole. In our view, the non-membership of the military alliance is also a sustainable line for the next few years. At the same time, we support the possibility of reviewing the situation if necessary. The recent publication of the Finnish Defence Information Board shows that citizens also experience strong confidence in the management and policy of Finland’s foreign policy. 70 per cent of Finns consider Finland’s foreign policy to be well managed. Similarly, the basic principles of foreign policy, general conscription and non-militaryism, collect strong support from the citizens: four out of five support the maintenance of the military system, and 61% of NATO membership is negative when 25% of Finland believes that Finland should strive for NATO. Stability policy is a policy with broad public support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u72	Mr President! World politics is in great turmoil. However, Finland’s foreign and security policy has remained stable even in difficult situations. Our foreign policy has been pragmatic, long-term and we have been able to reconcile different perspectives. The recent development of Finland’s foreign policy has been the deepening of Western foreign and security policy cooperation. The agreement on defence cooperation with the United States and the United Kingdom, the now-negotiable letter of intent with Germany, the Nordic Declaration of Solidarity and the EU's declarations of assistance and responsibility all contribute to the direction of Finland's recent foreign and security policy. The relevance of East relations has not been eliminated, therefore dialogue and the development of different opportunities for cooperation with Russia will continue. A recent survey of the Finnish Defence Information Board shows that people's confidence in the management of Finland's foreign and defence policy has grown during the time of the Finnish ministers. Now nearly 80 per cent of Finns consider defence policy to be well-managed. Mr President! The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs supports the Government's report on foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u81	Mr President! Just five months ago, Parliament received the Government's report on foreign and security policy. It's a short time in the world. However, it is a time when our security environment has changed significantly. After the report was given, the United Kingdom decided in the Brexit referendum to leave the European Union. In the United States, Donald Trump became president, whose future policy is still beyond the reach of the best experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u84	Mr. Speaker! The power policy used in Europe, the violations of international law and the defiant display of force in our immediate environment have brought traditional military security issues to the fore. This is also reflected in the report and its parliamentary procedure. Although Finland is not an endangered country, it is important that military security is also properly taken into account in Finland's foreign and security policy. However, many citizens ask whether we are preparing or preparing for war. That is not the case. War is never a normal state or even a new one, and the language displayed in the media that makes it everyday is both unfounded and dangerous. However, the world’s condition must be a matter of concern, not just from an immediate military point of view. Its challenges cannot be addressed in just a few years or in the parliamentary term. Then we will understand how the main challenges in Finland's security also relate to global unsustainable development. In the best case scenario, we have a maximum of a few decades to adapt all human activities to the requirements of ecologically, socially and economically sustainable development. That is why security policy cannot be just an introspective precaution; it must be an active contribution to the resolution and prevention of crises and conflicts. That is why, for example, the drastic cuts in development cooperation are weakening our chances of doing this, and yet the need for this has been increasing. In a world of growing and undivided interdependence, sustainability and security are not created by force policy, by attempts to close borders or by confrontation, but only by as extensive multilateral cooperation as possible. Russia has also called this into question, and it remains to be seen how the United States will act in the coming years. In this case, it is all the more important what Finland, together with the other Nordic countries, is doing for cooperative security and whether the EU will be able to take on the role of leader of the open world policy on offer, overcoming its difficulties. Europe needs both judgement and ability to act, including to strengthen its own security and defence policy. We expect Parliament to be kept informed of this. The key to security policy is how we participate in international cooperation and are prepared to provide assistance to others if they need it. Our defence will continue to be based on a national solution. Important support for it is our membership of the EU, developing Nordic cooperation and partnership with NATO. We receive information and training opportunities that serve to increase the skills and efficiency of our own defence. As the report states, we are only participating in open traineeships for this purpose. On the basis of our own political considerations, we choose exercises that we participate in when they do not create an increase in international tension. Cooperation has a preventive effect. We do not have the assistance provided by the military alliance, but neither do we have the obligation to participate in operations or in a common defence. There is a need for credible defence and the possibility of receiving assistance, as well as ensuring that no one has reason to doubt our ability and that we want to prevent the use of our territory for any other militarily hostile purposes. In this way, we also reject the possibility of an armed attack which has not been fully ruled out in the report. Intensified defence cooperation with Sweden plays an important role. It does not aim for a bilateral defence alliance, although it should not be ruled out in the future. Our non-alignment serves well the stability of the Baltic Sea. The policy of expediency must be primarily aimed at serious conflicts. Our basic agenda has always been based on a broad parliamentary consensus and has the support of the citizens. We welcome the fact that the committee has prepared a response to the report in good and broad agreement. Of course, our basic line is to say that the possibility of a military alliance is a sovereign right in Finland. The continuing questioning of its own chosen and widely supported military non-alignment policy does not serve the interests of Finland or the stability of the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea. We hope that this will also be reflected in this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u85	Mr President! The foreign and security policy debate is now taking place in a rapidly changing situation. The recent terrorist attacks — Paris, Brussels, Nice, now Berlin — demonstrate the efforts of extremist organisations to move the Middle East war scene to Europe. We Finns want to express our deep condolences to the victims of the Berlin attack. The eradication of terrorism and its root causes is our common goal. We also strongly condemn the attack on the Russian ambassador to Andrei Karlov in Ankara. Violence only gives rise to violence. We Greens believe that, in Finland's foreign and security policy at this time, two things are beyond the others: active support for peace efforts in conflict areas, including through mediation, civilian crisis management and peacekeeping, and increasing national resilience to crises, including by preventing exclusion, combating hate speech, increasing security of supply and keeping our own defence up-to-date. Mr President! We joined the 15-member European Union in 95. There are now 28 members, point 27. A large number of manuals have been made for the enlarged EU, but none for the shrinking EU. The forthcoming Brexit negotiations are difficult. Although Britain leaves the EU, it will remain a key and important player in security and trade policy in Europe. For Finland, too, the importance of Great Britain remains. In the Balkans, such as Serbia and Macedonia, any EU membership still has a positive value download. It is seen as a factor contributing to stability and anti-corruption. Much has been said in recent days about the structural cooperation that the EU agreements allow in the field of defence between the countries concerned. This cooperation can play a major role in Finland's security and must be fully supported in its development. The Greens welcome the development of EU defence cooperation in areas such as crisis management, material cooperation, cyber threats or maritime safety. In the Middle East and North Africa, the EU has been a recipient of refugees, a humanitarian donor and a supporter of reconstruction. It is important that in the future the EU is also a crisis solver, negotiator and peace broker. With the EU's global strategy, we Greens expect a more active political role from the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u86	Mr President! For the sixth year in a row, Finland has been ranked as the most stable country in the world. In the ranking of Fund for Peace, Finland alone forms its own highest category.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u89	Värderade Talman! Sulla har regeringens utrikes- och säkerhetspolitiska redogörelse skrivits och behandlats i en så utmanande internationalell terräng som detta år. Världens gång är dikssändning. Att fånga in den snabbt föränderliga verkligheten på papper har alltså variant nistan omöjligt. Sedan redogörelsen gavs till riksdage på sommaren har Europa skakats av nya terorordåd, brexitomröstningen och ett eskalerande krig i Syrieen. Dossutom har presidentval förrättats i USA. Vilka consekvenser valresultatet har för USA:s roll i Europa eller världen i övrigt är ännu en gåta, liksom den nyvalde presidents utrikespolitik överlag. En tidens trend är också då man med hybridverksamhet, medvet riktad disclosure och direka lögner i det virtuella rummet försöker skapa oreda och missnöje med politiskt leftarskap och polititiska processer eller rent av påverka valresultat. Det auri i combination med populism, nationalism och extreme utgör i dag en stor utmaning för flera av de democracy värderingar vi länge trott är ochränkbara, rent av ohoade, i det efterkrigstida Europa. Till problembilden hör också vis EU-länders sätt att international utmana centrala rättsstatsprinter — liksom tonfallet i den ryska retoriken och landsets Bristande respekt för internationell och humanittä tätt. Konsekvensen av dessa hedelser och trender, skilt för sig och tillsammans, är eniskall vind som sveper fram i den allmänna atmosfären i Europa.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u90	Mr President! Finland’s stable social situation has enabled us to pursue an independent security policy. But the past is not a guarantee of the future. The report states that our foreign and security policy environment is in the midst of a strong transformation. This cautious and diplomatic expression is true, but it is illustrating the threats that we are actually living in. Serious conflicts are currently taking place in the world and in our neighbourhood, where there seems to be no solutions. At the same time, new threats are drawn on the horizon: Turkey's development is a cause for concern, The defeat facing ISIS in the Middle East can lead to accelerating terrorism in Europe, and even the EU's development does not seem stable at the moment. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group agrees in many respects with the content of the report in relation to international defence and security cooperation. The Nordic countries, especially Sweden, are important partners for us. The current good defence cooperation must be continued and deepened where it is reasonable and possible. Further cooperation with NATO is also natural. At the same time, it is clear that possible membership of the Defence Union would require a broad national debate and consensus. It has to be said that almost our entire defence system is NATO-compatible and we also have an existing host country agreement with NATO that allows NATO troops to be present on Finnish soil. The European Union is presented in the report as the main actor in Finland's foreign and security policy. We agree. However, the future of the EU does not currently seem as stable as it could be hoped. In addition to Brexit, anti-Europeanism has increased its head in other Member States. The management of the Euro and refugee crisis shows how difficult practical cooperation is in a crisis situation. Finland must contribute to improving the conditions for cooperation within the Union, but at the same time we must not be naive about the security of the EU in all situations. We are pressing for the preparation of up-to-date intelligence legislation to combat hybrid threats so that, among other things, the protection police can have sufficient tools to carry out their task. The report states that uncontrolled migration to Europe could increase further in the coming years. This is extremely cautiously expressed. The populations of both Africa and the Middle East have grown significantly in recent decades and will grow at an accelerated pace in the near future. Population growth and related conflicts will lead to increasing and uncontrolled migration to Europe and also to Finland. Finland should, through its own actions, and especially as an EU member, try to prevent negative developments. Effective and well-targeted development cooperation plays a key role in the prevention of conflicts and migration. The report states that development policy is an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Unfortunately, the Government's words and actions do not meet this point: the government has drastically cut development funds and changed the focus of the well-known development cooperation towards commercial cooperation. The Christian Democrats do not see any sense in the direction of the government, but call for a broad debate and increased support for development cooperation by non-governmental organisations. There must also be sufficient resources for the implementation of Agenda 2030 in Finland. Mr President! In the midst of this change, it is increasingly important to ensure national security. It requires determination, national consensus and honesty. Finland's foreign and security policy must be based on an honest assessment of its position, ability to function and the added value of international cooperation for our security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u91	Then there's the government's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u92	Mr President! The Government's report on foreign and security policy has received consideration from Parliament in accordance with its values and in depth. I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for its expert report and the committees for their familiarity. I would also like to thank the Parliamentary Monitoring Group separately; the Monitoring Group has been an invaluable partner for the government in preparing the report. Mr President! In Finland, foreign and security policy is traditionally a common thing that transcends party political passions. This unity is an important resource for us and it is valuable to hold on to it. We are pleased to note that there is a broad consensus on the lines of the report. National unity is all the more important when we face major foreign policy challenges and uncertain times. Europe was supposed to be a continent of peace and stability. The world was moving towards development and a better life. However, we are now living in a new era characterised by instability, even by war, human distress and the challenge of international rules, both in Europe and in its neighbourhood. In the current situation, it is all the more important that Finland has a clear foreign and security policy line, its own vision. Its main members are respect for international law and the strengthening of a rule-based international system. No one builds a better world alone or indifferent to others. Mr President! Much has already happened since the report was finalised, but its content is durable. The European Union is an essential security community for Finland. Strengthening its ability to function is important. The European Union is therefore determined to develop its security and defence policy. We want to be involved in this development. It is reasonable and reasonable for Europe to assume greater responsibility for its own security and to seek to stabilise its neighbourhood. This work and capacity building is well under way. During the preparatory phase of the report, the importance of the UK EU solution was considered. The presidential elections in the United States also have an impact on foreign and security policy. Strengthening Europe's capacity to act and shoulder responsibility is the right solution, both when Brexit comes to fruition and when power changes in the United States. Mr President! The main guidelines of the report concern Finland’s partnerships. We stress in particular the deepening cooperation with Sweden and the United States and the strengthening partnership with NATO. These are important partners in the Western community to which we belong. It is possible for Finland to apply for NATO membership, and this possibility should be maintained. The deepening of cooperation with Sweden, both in matters of war and peace, is a natural and important priority for us. The United States has a key role to play in European security. That won't change, even though the White House is changing hostship. Mr President! Russia is always an important foreign and security policy issue for Finland. There are many things we can influence, but not geography. Good relations with Russia is a natural goal for Finland. But it is essential to adhere to the fundamental principles on which the European security system has been built. Violence has no place and its use is unacceptable. Russia has violated key security principles by stealing Crimea and destabilising Ukraine. This is unacceptable; Europe of interests is history. Russia's action is a source of Europe's tense climate of security, and this tension is also known to be reflected in the Baltic Sea region. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has rightly and well said that the tension in the Baltic Sea region does not depend on the region's own factors. But all of us are affected by this development, and we are not getting out of it, whether we are guilty or not. It is quite clear that many small countries have been uneasy about Russia's activities and have wondered whether Ukraine is the only country that could face such a situation. I hope there is — there are no objective signs of this at the moment. Mr President! The foreign policy line is an important basis, but it must also be reflected in actions. What is essential is that we take action with an active approach. It concerns both the strengthening of security in Europe and the stabilisation of the world. A particularly important and topical issue is the strengthening of relations with the United States and the establishment of links with the new administration. I agree with the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the importance of Parliament's continued access to information. The communication on foreign and security policy to be adopted during the spring session 2017 is a worthy idea, which I fully support. Mr President! Europe has gone from the ruins of a long way to the solid division of the Cold War. After the Cold War, our continent quickly began to become integrated and the former division was in the past. Russia was also part of this positive development. Now the course of history threatens to reverse and the confrontation overshadows cooperation again. The central role of Finland’s foreign and security policy is the security and well-being of Finns. We best pursue this goal by sticking to our principles. Peace prevails over war, justice over violence, cooperation over confrontation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u93	Next up, Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u94	Mr President! The report on foreign and security policy was completed in June, the NATO assessment even before that in April, and the preparation of the defence statement is now coming to an end. The preparatory processes for the reports have been handled very well, for which I would like to express my thanks to the interested parties. Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would also like to express my thanks to the Parliamentary Monitoring Group for its great interest and familiarity. I would also like to express my special thanks to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has produced a comprehensive report on this report. The report shows that there is broad agreement on the main lines of the report. The cross-party debate and analysis of foreign, security and defence policy is extremely important for Finland. The description of the operating environment of the Foreign and Security Policy Report begins with the phrase "a strong change in the operating environment of foreign and security policy will continue both in Finland's neighbourhood and globally". The whole international community has been challenged by the serious crisis in Syria. At the European Council, we condemned the continuing attacks on Aleppo by the Syrian regime and its allies, particularly Russia and Iran. We underlined the responsibility of Syria and its allies to implement the evacuation of the inhabitants and the protection of civilians as a matter of urgency. The EU is determined to work with the UN to reach a political solution. External changes have a wide range of implications for Finland’s internal development, internal security and the resilience of society to crisis. These themes were also discussed in the Internal Security Report published in May. In addition to this, in recent years, we have done a very important cross-sectoral effort in shaping the overall security of society. Events such as cyber and hybrid threats challenge us to continue this work. Mr President! Security and defence were at the heart of the December European Council. The conclusions of the meeting confirmed the need for Europeans to take greater responsibility for their security. Finland has consistently highlighted the need to strengthen the EU as a security community and as a safety provider. This position has been recorded in several of our security policy reports since the 2009 report. The development of a common EU security and defence policy has progressed in recent years. In December 2013, the European Council set targets for the development of the Common Security and Defence Policy and further revised them in June 2015. In June of this year, High Representative Mogherini presented the EU's global strategy and later a detailed implementation plan in the field of security and defence. The conclusions of the December meeting stated that strengthening European security and defence in a challenging environment and better protection of citizens require greater efforts. This requires sufficient additional resources, taking into account national circumstances and legal commitments. The development of defence cooperation has focused on a number of issues such as the development of defence markets, the systematisation of defence cooperation, permanent structural cooperation, crisis management planning and leadership, financial issues, the development of a military service system, the response to hybrid threats and closer cooperation between the EU and NATO. The European Council invited the High Representative and the Commission to make proposals in early next year as a basis for future decision-making, and the European Council will regularly review progress, for the next time at both March and June meetings. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered it important for me to present a communication on changes in the foreign and security policy environment during the spring part-session 2017. This is perfect. The appropriate date for the communication should be defined after the UK has submitted its application for EU divorce, which we expect to see by the end of March. At that point, we will also be aware of the first foreign and security policy guidelines of the new President of the United States.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u95	Now it is possible to ask for one-minute responses using the V button. I give the first response to the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u96	Mr President! I think that this round of group talks showed that, although there are certain differences in weighting, this big picture is common to all. I think that when we look back a few years, a few years forward, we will see that there are certain signs of a turnaround here: the return of power policy, the new forms of terrorism, in particular the concern that the international rule-based system will not work, the respect for international agreements will be weak. Even in their own preparation, starting with the difficult reforms of preparedness and intelligence legislation, they have emerged, and also from what the representative has pointed out, the unsustainable development of the world as the underlying and underlying problem that is not, by any means, facilitating, but increasing, the problems facing us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u97	Mr. Speaker! I think it is very valuable that these fundamental issues of foreign and security policy have been addressed, and even now in a broad spirit of consensus, and I do not want to be in breach of it, but I would nevertheless like to say two things. We have some differences of emphasis, as Mr Vanhanen rightly said. One also concerns this aspect of non-alignment. I myself would like to emphasise that we consider this opportunity to be the right one and that is our basic approach, but just as clearly I believe that we do not have a situation where talking about this now or presenting it with some timetables would at least improve Finland's security. This is the first thing. The second point I draw attention to is that I would like to see more active engagement in foreign and security policy, not only passively prepared for what is going on in the world, but rather to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u98	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! More than half of the world's population are under 25 years of age. Personally, having followed foreign policy, including with the travels of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have noticed that world politics could use a generation change. Politics is still very masculine, there is much talk of oil, weapons, conflicts, but women's and children's rights are not regarded as superpowers of change. I myself think this way and I see that Finland has a lot of strengths on these very issues. How can we make better use of these strengths in Finland's foreign policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u99	Mr President! In his own speech, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen, raised the question of the crusade of democracy: has it in a way ended, has it failed to bring the values we believe in — human rights, individual freedom, democracy — to the world? There are a lot of authoritarian countries, that's true. However, I would have drawn attention to the fact that there may be a great many democratic movements in these authoritarian countries below the surface, below their leaders. We are looking at China today, it is teeming, we are looking at Russia, there is civil society there. Surely there are people in Turkey who do not think exactly like Erdogan. I think it is very important that we also look at this level of civil society and not just classify them on the basis that they are authoritarian, and then act with them like an authoritarian country, but also to strengthen that civil society and act for democracy, for human rights, when we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u100	Mr President! Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have raised a very important point when you said that we must continue with the same approach towards the United States as we are now taking in President Obama's time. I mean, we had this wonderful Nordic meeting there during Obama's season. Could you shed some light on how you intend to continue this type of activity, because it is very valuable for our image to be in the same group as the rest of the Nordic countries. I would like to ask the Prime Minister briefly that when this presidency of the Arctic Council comes to us, how do you see this unique opportunity to get the US and Russian leadership under the Finnish Presidency to discuss Arctic issues, even in Finland. At the same time, it would be a great project for Finland's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u101	Mr President! A group speaker from the RKP, Mrs Wallin, said that it would be good to be a member of NATO by 2025, but it calls for the support of the people. It is a good thing that you also admit it and at the same time say that this is not going to happen. In fact, support for Finland's NATO membership among the people has decreased rather than increased. In my speech, I said that the committee's report is relatively balanced, but the same cannot, unfortunately, be said in all respects about the government's policy, which raises critical questions. The budget for development cooperation is being cut at the same time as wars and refugees are seen as a major security risk throughout the world. Finland sells weapons to Saudi Arabia, the Arab Emirates, which are involved in civil war in Yemen, weapons are also exported to the dictatorships of Central Asia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u102	Mr President! It is quite true, Mr Arhinmäki, that the support of the people is still lacking, but after that, if and when the foreign policy leadership takes a good look at this matter and starts to drive it forward, things may change, just as they did with EU membership. Mr Government, since the US presidential election, it has also been said here in Finland that the result of the election could affect NATO's willingness or prospects for enlargement, therefore also Finland's ability to join NATO if it so wishes. Of course, it is in Finland's interest, just as the Foreign Minister said just now, that the door to NATO remains open. After all, on behalf of Finland, Mr Foreign Minister, relations with NATO and the United States are in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u103	Mr President! There is no doubt that we have a very pro-NATO government at the moment. Almost our entire defense system has been placed in a NATO position. We have a host country agreement with NATO which determines how NATO, as well as its forces of Member States or other States, can set up bases on our territory. In addition, we have a special agreement on cooperation with the United States. In other words, it is not an exaggeration to say that we are quite NATO-ready. I would like to ask what the real situation is now within the government. Are we there to prepare even deeper cooperation with NATO? The fact is, as the Minister of Defence said here during the budget negotiations, that with these resources our defence is not credible. There is now more resources coming, which is a good thing, but also this very fragmented defence mechanism in Europe does not provide us with sufficient support. Is NATO our only hope?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u104	Mr President! Like Mr Haavisto, I would like to raise the issue of the prevention of terrorism and extremism. Isis signed up for the Berlin attack. Last week, the summit outlined steps towards the development of the European defence dimension. Very important things. But I would like to know what more is being done in the EU specifically to address the root causes of terrorism and extremism. And the second point I would like to raise is the safety of the Baltic Sea and Finland's initiative to host the Aviation Safety Conference next year. I think they are very positive examples of how diplomacy can alleviate tension in this turbulence in a situation where war rhetoric and arms race are increasing. This initiative has already attracted very positive attention in various parts of the world, including the NATO-Russia Council. I would like to express my thanks to the President and the Government for this dialogue and cooperation in this way too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u105	Mr President! Foreign Minister Soini raised the issue of EU defence cooperation in his own speech, and this same debate also arose in an interview with the Prime Minister after the European Council. I would now like to ask you that, when it is described that a big leap took place at the last Council meeting in order to move forward with this cooperation on defence, what was decided there in practice on the content of defence cooperation. Is there any preparation for defence cooperation in the European framework mentioned in the Kauppalehti, for example? Then I would like to ask or raise another point here. I think it would be important now, as Mr Tuomioja said, to be active on the outside, to be active on the root causes. My question is this: is there a time when the government is reorienting its development aid policy in such a way that organisations have influence?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u106	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee and to the ministers for their introductions. It is very important that this report has once again received broad parliamentary support, because, as the Foreign Minister said, in Finland, foreign policy, security policy and such reports, which are related to them, are a common issue, which is an important resource at a time when conflicts have escalated, but in particular at a time when conflicts have escalated. Finland's priorities in international politics were well highlighted here: respect for international law and the strengthening of a rule-based international system and conflict prevention, both for its own and, of course, for the surrounding environment and the world as a whole. I would also like to ask the Foreign Minister how Finland, as a small but well-known international player, can promote these issues, and how does the government promote them?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u107	Mr President! In times of difficulty, it is encouraging that this debate is so wide-ranging and that there are common views. But I believe that these challenges will then be found in the individual situations of foreign policy, and I will give you a few examples of these challenges. One is that preparations for the Nord Stream 2 pipeline between Russia and Germany are on the way and Sweden took a completely new position on it a week ago — there has been a previous reflection on this security policy dimension. On the recommendation of the Swedish Government, the Swedish municipalities refused to hand over Swedish ports in order to promote the construction of this gas pipeline to these companies for defence policy reasons. Does this development in Sweden affect Finland’s views as to whether this gas pipeline project has a security policy dimension for the Baltic Sea or a defence dimension? We know that it does affect Russia's interests by bypassing Ukraine and Poland,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u108	President! Two different views. We remember the words, "We will bring sorrow to your feasts, and we will make your nights bloody." These words were spoken after the terrible terrorist attack in Nice last summer and challenge the whole Western culture and the foundations of our existence. The second point that we must take seriously in our thinking and actions is whether this country is going to war itself. I don't see it. I do not think there will be a separate war against Finland, but, as the report states, we cannot rule out a military threat to Finland either. Therefore, the overall security approach, which is a special feature of security in Finland, is important, and I say that the consensus in Finland today is, in fact, deeper than ever before. It is between the government and Parliament, but it is also between Parliament and the President of the Republic, and they are excellent strengths.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u109	Mr President! There is now a number of references to this one key change in the operating environment that has taken place since the report was presented, i.e. efforts to deepen and intensify cooperation on security and defence between the Member States of the European Union. This seems to be the way in which the EU wants to respond to its internal problems. In other words, instead of trying to address the deep lack of public confidence in the Union by reducing unemployment, by tackling wage competition or economic inequality, there is now apparently going to be a militarisation of European cooperation and to build unity on the basis of insecurity and external threats. I would like to ask the ministers: why has Finland already expressed its support for this development, even though more detailed information on the concrete forms and models of this defence and security cooperation is only coming in early next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u110	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Jag tror att det är viktigt att vi kan diskutera skerhetspolitiken öppet och fördomsfrittt. Jag tror också att det är viktigt att vi kan diskutera den nordiska dimensionen och ett ännu mera utvecklat nordiskt samarbete också inom säkerhetspolitiken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u111	Mr President! Finland's foreign and security policy policy is described in the words 'active stability policy', and this of course applies particularly to our own neighbourhood, the Baltic Sea environment, as well as international cooperation and responsibility in peace-keeping and development policy. The Christian Democrats have long been particularly concerned about this responsibility for development policy, because crises and refugees are best prevented and managed by being present and supported on the ground. An active approach is also needed in nearby areas, and one such project in Finland is a centre of expertise for the prevention of hybrid threats. I would therefore have asked both the foreign and the Prime Minister how this project is going — Germany, France, Spain, apparently the countries around the Baltic Sea are supporting the project — and what content it is gaining.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u112	Mr President! Although there are many things in this Parliament, it is valuable that there is a good consensus on foreign and security policy. It is a valuable thing especially in times of tension like this. Unfortunately, Europe has been moving towards the Cold War. This slide must indeed stop and put Europe back on the path of peace, cooperation and stability. Even Finland can play a small role in it. I think that the government and the President of the Republic have done a good job. Perhaps next year we will still be able to take advantage of this presidency of the Arctic Council. The idea that we would have a summit in Finland, including Russian and US Presidents Putin and Trump, is interesting and welcome. I ask the government: how realistic do you think this idea is, and how hard does the government intend to make efforts to organise such a meeting?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u113	Mr President! I agree with those who are pleased that there is a great deal of consensus about this big line in this House. We take care of our own defence, we are involved in various partnerships, but we remain outside the military alliances. This line of the President, on which the government is clearly set up, enjoys the support of a large majority in Parliament, and so it is good. The changing part then seems to be this European cooperation. Within the framework of the European Union, we have now started to take defence as the next topic to move forward in cooperation, and it seems to have quite ambitious plans. What is important is that what is being done in European cooperation and what is being planned by the government be told openly. Citizens must be able to know where we are going, why we are going, and these plans must also have the full support of the Parliament for the government. I agree with those who hope that the government will openly express these ideas for closer European defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u114	Mr President! As we have heard and everyone has said, we are surrounded by a lot of instability and this rate has accelerated even since this report was prepared last spring. In his group statement, Mr Salolainen said that it was extremely worrying how the EU is being torn from within and outside at the moment. One of the reasons why the EU is being torn down is to have a hydrib effect. It is also stated in the report that this is a key new challenge for Finland, its forms are many: new technologies, disinformation, social media. It may be difficult for people to understand what all is about the hybrid effect. However, surely the best way to answer that question is that we have an integrated, reliable administration in Finland and people can count on political decision-makers, civil servants, we have free media, data security in order. But, as Mr Vanhanen has said here, preparedness legislation needs to be updated and its content reviewed. I'd like to ask the ministers about this hybrid center:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u115	Mr President! As a technically advanced country, we are totally dependent on computer-controlled systems: electricity grid, food distribution, water supply, the media. Everyone is controlled by computers, and these machines are connected via the Internet. Cybersecurity is a critical part of national security. This was a frightening warning in Ukraine exactly a year ago when a cyber attack under Christmas cut off electricity from 230,000 Ukrainian economies just under Christmas. Many people feel that this would not be possible in Finland. In reality, the security of automation systems connected to the Finnish internet has been found to be weak if not non-existent in the survey. My question is: how does the government intend to bring national cybersecurity to the level of these threats in today's world and to secure security of supply even in situations where information systems cannot be trusted for any reason?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u116	Mr President! Finland continues its respected active participation in international crisis management. Conflict management aims at effectiveness and sustainable results. There is no point in participating in a crisis management operation if, soon after international actors have left the country, the situation is restored. This is why training activities, which also train local trainers, are important, such as the overall capacity building of the security sector as a whole, for the benefit of both people and the local economy. I ask the Prime Minister: how is the EU developing the coordination of joint EU crisis management?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u117	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen, referred to the opposition of the Left Alliance, in particular to these three statements and to this last one. But if we have written down a key point in this way that'material cooperation or other forms of cooperation must not lead to an increase in the overall level of defence expenditure or to a reduction in national discretion in foreign and security policy', then that phrase is something that dares to be defended in public. If we consider what problems we have in the European Union — massive mass unemployment, the problem of refugees, the economic crisis, the root causes of which have not been solved, but more problems have been swept under the carpet — then the question must be asked: is it precisely the glue that holds the Community together to build a war-industrial complex in the European Union?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u118	Mr President! Just as Mr Kanerva and Mr Kaikkonen have said, this report shows that there is consensus between the President, the Government and Parliament. From a European point of view, the positions of the leaders of Isis, in which they seek to inspire Western supporters to carry out terrorist attacks and destroy the Western social system, are worrying. In the Middle East, in the Mecca of many terrorist organisations, a small state of Israel, for example, is used to dealing with the threat of continuing terrorism. Isis operates right on the Israeli borders and has sworn to destroy the State of Israel, yet Isis has not committed a single terrorist attack there or attempted to invade Israel. Israel is ready to share with its friends the experiences and means that they have identified to help overcome the terrorist threat,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u119	I would also like to give the following answers: Mr Kääriäinen, Mr Lindtman and Mr Zyskowicz. After that, the ministers' answers, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u120	Mr President! The report is worth 8.5, and the report is on the right side of the acknowledgment. From the point of view of the Observatory, I think it is essential that all these guidelines are more or less unanimous — Arhinmäki here stands out a little but only a little. I would stress that this consensus applies to things that are already quite deep, not just to such big lines, which is a great thing in itself, but to things that are a little deeper than that, and that can only be achieved by having much clarifying, trust-based, discussion based on good information. It is the core that enables consensus to be found, and this method has been used here. The agreement is further confirmed by the fact that the President is on these lines, or vice versa, how he wishes to put it. With a view to the future, making up-to-date information available to the Monitoring Group on the Government side is quite a and o, especially with a view to large purchases of defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u122	Mr President! I should like to add my voice to this Christmas certificate presented by Mrs Kääriäinen. We could still put Mr Kääriäinen's own speech on the excellent side. It is worth the work that has been done in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is very good that Parliament can, on a very broad front, support the Finnish line, which, of course, is based on continuity, the fact that we remain outside the military alliances, has its own credible defence and multilateral cooperation — in other words, that: Finland works in such a way that the tension is reduced by all means in its own region. And this is where the foreign policy line led by President Niinistö and also this transponder initiative deserve to be valued and fully supported. But, Mr President, this whole also includes the fact that the steps that we are taking are aimed at achieving as broad a consensus as possible, on the common front. And I would like to join in the hope that the government will now adopt its own views as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u123	Mr President! My generation’s generation’s experience was a flimsy process, by which I mean not Finland’s foreign policy of the 1970s, but the events within our country. It was then that politicians, the media, culture and so-called civil society were lying or at least silent about the reality of the Soviet Union and its foreign policy. Although, unfortunately, Russia is more and more like the Soviet Union every day, we will never be able to re-enact. Diplomacy I understand, but, in particular, public debate and research must strive for truthful presentation. The illegal annexation and occupation of Crimea must be said to be illegal, the lying of Russian leadership and media to their own people and the world must be said to be lying, the ruthless and indiscriminate bombing of civilians in Aleppo must be called a war crime and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u124	Secretary of State Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u125	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent contributions, and I wholeheartedly endorse the thanks given to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for its work. Of course, the bar was high, even in the previous committee, knowing history. The relationship with the United States is extremely important and must be able to establish contacts with people. Here is a change coming, for example, I will take the Arctic ambassador, Admiral Priest. I met him half a dozen times, and he would have been excellent at continuing this work, but now the administration is changing, and Papp resigned a few weeks ago. In other words, it is important that contacts are held, and for the first time I personally travel to the United States at the turn of January/February, and the intention is to meet a large number of think tanks, foreign policy players. Then I would like to mention one specific point when asked what initiatives are being taken and what measures are being taken: I want to mention Turkey. I think it is very important that we have contacts and influence there. We have traditionally arranged a peace-making breakfast, even during the previous government, and that is what we are doing now. I have been asked to speak to the Turkish ambassadors' days in January — I shall go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u128	Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u129	Mr President! I will respond to the issue of EU defence cooperation that has been raised in several speeches. This has indeed been the position of Finland in the defence policy report since 2009, and now, with these headlines, it has moved forward. There has been support for this until now, and support has also been sought for this meeting from the committees, and parliamentary support for all further steps will be sought for Finland's position before any further steps were taken. Well, what did we decide? I think that an important decision is that this has now come to the agenda; that further preparation is being made of the content of this issue, which I presented at that title level; that, for example, the first funds are being allocated to research cooperation; and for Finland, for example, it is important that funding for crisis management is now aimed at ensuring that it is not just on the hands of the countries involved in crisis management, but that it has a more balanced burden-sharing. Finland has taken exemplary responsibility here, and this financing mechanism for crisis management operations will be updated in the course of next year. Mr Ruoho asked a question about the management centre in this regard. This is one example of the agenda topics, such as the Staff Centre should be here. In order not to give anyone the wrong impression of this, the EU is not building a common army, and Finland is under no circumstances demanding it. The majority of the countries of the European Union are NATO countries, and the debate that took place at the December European Council made it very clear that the European Union is not going to build up any duplication with NATO missions, but that cooperation is being sought on matters outside NATO. For example, there is research cooperation, the development of the defence market, in particular the role of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in this field, and in this area we have a great deal of scope for deepening. These hybrid threats and cybersecurity, which have been raised many times here, are good examples of where it is also in Finland's interest to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u130	All right, and now we have the opportunity to ask for answers again, and they will start with Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u131	Mr President! Finland is part of the West, and Russia knows that. Finland is also ready for a constructive dialogue. We remember when Bill Clinton and Boris Yeltsin attended a high-level meeting in Helsinki in 1997, almost 20 years ago. Finland will continue to be a member of the EU, as it did then, and, as has been pointed out here, next year, the Arctic Council Presidency and thus an important interlocutor for the United States and Russia. I would like to ask the Minister again, referring to the speeches made by Mr Salolainen and Mr Kaikkonen: is Finland prepared to host Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin in the same spirit as it did 20 years ago with Clinton and Yeltsin? I would like to be more specific about this idea of a significant meeting at the level of the Heads of State or Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u132	Mr President! I think it is worth acknowledging that in this time of uncertainty there is no time for new NATO guidelines. It is the policy of NATO cooperation that has been adopted that is the best option for Finland, and it is worth continuing along that path. On the other hand, cooperation with the European Union is justified and a more active approach should now be taken. The necessary defence cooperation alongside the European Union's foreign and security policy is now being pushed forward, and there are many points in favour of Finland being strongly involved in developing this. Defence procurement at EU level, among other things, has many advantages for Finland from the point of view of central government finances. Mr President! However, it should be borne in mind that when we act within the framework of the EU, the concept of security is broad. It cannot be that we are developing defence cooperation, for example, but that, when we are in the European Union, we must also be active in other European cooperation, such as the development of monetary and economic union, the free movement of internal borders and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u133	Mr President! In the midst of crises, it is extremely important that there is maximum agreement on foreign and security policy and that its objectives are clear. In this respect, the report before us is a complete whole and has the right priorities. With regard to the priorities, I attach particular importance to strengthening the EU as a security community, working relations with Russia and contributing to the root causes of migration. Bilateral relations with both the Nordic countries and the United States are also important and part of our solid foreign policy line. Preventive action against crises and conflicts, such as sustainable development, equality and support for the rule of law in fragile countries, will continue to be necessary. Building on these priorities is a good, sustainable and stable foundation for our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u134	Mr President! We have a broad, common image of foreign and security policy, and that is good. It is also a good thing that we are having a debate, and hopefully the public will also be actively involved in it, as well as foreign policy researchers and other actors. Active foreign policy can influence the security situation in neighbouring areas as well as prevent tensions and conflicts in the world as well. Finland can and must also be active internationally. A good example of what we have succeeded in doing is Finland's international action to involve women in peace building in accordance with UN Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. It is even a brand of which Finland is known. Congressman Elomaa brought up young people. This was a very important point. My question is: how could Finland actively promote UN Resolution 2250 on Youth, Peace and Security — as actively as it does the resolution on Women, Peace and Security?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u135	Mr President! The shocking attacks on Monday are yet another unfortunate example of the sudden and unexpected impact of terrorism. Nor can we be lulled into the idea that Finland is a bird shelter without internal threats. We all know that according to various estimates, around 80 foreign fighters have left Finland to join the Isil ranks, of which 20 have returned to Finland. At the same time, the activity of political extremism has increased and the number of cyber threats has increased. These threats need to be addressed, and one important issue is the speedy implementation and enforcement of intelligence legislation, but human resources are also important. We have approximately 300 staff in Supo. Compared to other Nordic security authorities, this figure is clearly the lowest. I would like to ask: does the government have any plans to allocate even more resources to the contribution?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u136	Mr President! Yes, security must be sought primarily by means other than weapons, both at national and European level. If the number of weapons had been able to guarantee security, there would hardly have been any war or conflict in the Middle East in the past decades, for example. In other words, other means must be put first and foremost, and it is therefore a matter of concern that at European level, too, there can be no further increase in the arms budget than is necessary. It is actually rather sad, Mr President, that some are seeking European uniform glue, unity, a common path, precisely now through a common defence and the militarisation of the EU. Where are the other European values and their reliance on them to build a European future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u137	Mr President! The report mentions that Finland's security policy environment has changed, and the Committee on Defence continues to state that it also affects Finland's internal development. Uncertainties arise, the general resilience of the crisis continues and is put to the test. The security of supply aspects have also been considered important, and Finland has managed them well at EU level. But then I would like to point out that since the terrorist attacks in Paris there has been a significant clause 42.7, which means providing assistance. It has come significantly, and there is now a debate in Parliament on the issue of giving and accepting international aid, that they are unfinished, that this is such a significant bill. Finally, I would like to say that, in the future, when more of these reports are dealt with, the Committee on Defence has also considered it necessary for these issues to be dealt with in a very intersectoral manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u138	Mr President! I personally agree with the speeches which highlighted this importance of a united image, the fineness of parliamentaryism and its importance on key foreign and security policy issues. The central objective of keeping Finland out of crises and the objective of having military capabilities in proportion to external threats is a good basis for foreign and security policy thinking. But there are shadows in this paradise. According to the National Defence Communication Planning Board, the will to defend the country has decreased by seven per cent during this government. What measures does the government intend to take to increase the will to defend the country, and what kind of ideas did this study raise in the government? Of course, it should be hoped that Finland's best defender will continue to be Finnish himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u139	Mr President! Europe and the EU are in a somewhat new international policy situation. One of the worrying aspects that we may not have fully grasped is that of new forms of influence, which are taking place through information technology. It's about hybrid influence, cyber security. It has therefore been extremely important that Finland has been active in the EU with this joint centre for the prevention of hybrid threats, and it is great that it is brought to Finland. When it was not answered, I would have repeated the question: what is expected of that centre, and, on the other hand, how can we also get the public to understand how important these soft security aspects are also in relation to extensive civilisation, the level of knowledge and the fact that the means of influence are quite diverse today?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u140	Mr President! In time, as part of the parliamentary preparation of this report, I consider this procedure for parliamentary cooperation to be very good and the pursuit of parliamentary unity to be desirable. In the past, some have criticised the straightforward way in which the report deals with Russia as well as possible threats. The question arises as to whether the threat will disappear if it closes its eyes. A realistic description of the current situation and a recognition of the facts are not fomenting threats. It is right to speak of matters in their proper names, including Russia, so that Finland's safety can be taken care of in a comprehensive manner and to be prepared for threats. The report defines the operating environment of Finland’s foreign and security policy in an excellent way, and the change has now only accelerated further since the report was drafted. I hope the government will accept such facts and things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u141	Mr President! It is important that things are spoken in their proper names. Finland’s reputation as a reliable and coherent international player has been based not only on our clear foreign policy policy but also on our having a stable internal policy in which the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights have formed the core of our basic policy. The stability of our society has also been reflected in our multi-annual position as the number one country in freedom of the press. All the characteristics of the above-mentioned civilised state have provided a good basis for our international actors. When we have been in international fora to highlight the shortcomings of other countries, we have been credible actors. These include the democratic deficit, the disregard of the rule of law and the violation of human rights. We have been viewed as an exemplary country in many cases. Poland, Hungary and Turkey have not been the countries to which we have been compared, but
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u142	Mr President! The best war is one that never happens. It is important to get along with Russia, to cooperate with Sweden, with Britain and with the United States. The benefit of EU defence cooperation is that wholesale buyers receive material at a lower price. I'd like to ask you three questions. The first is this: how does Finland see how the situation in Syria should be resolved? We need to find a solution. Second, if Isis is defeated, what will be its replacement? There are quite a few of these radical groups there. And the third question: how do we prevent Finland from being subjected to a terrorist attack, and how are we prepared for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u143	Mr President! Climate change is one of the biggest security threats to which the report also takes a stand and highlights it. Climate change causes changes in food production, it puts pressure on migration, and these demographic changes are one of the root causes of the insecurity that has unfortunately been seen in Europe today. Another root cause is population growth. The world’s population is growing every 24 hours by over 200,000 people. I would like to ask the Minister if we could think of a commitment in our development cooperation funds to support those countries which commit themselves to proper family planning, to improving the position of women and, in particular, to ensuring that the population in these countries and in any country does not grow?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u144	Mr. Speaker! When school grades have been given here, our national consensus also deserves strong praise in foreign and security policy and related matters. That is an extremely important issue. President! I, too, would like to raise this issue of the Arctic. After all, we have a global situation in which the Northern Hemisphere threatens to remain, and quite often in the discussions it is very important for us to have a child, and that is why what you have said here, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister and many colleagues, have been very important. In order for this to arise, I hope that Finland will play a special role now that we have the Arctic Council Presidency. One element of this is security of supply, which is extremely important for our foreign and security policy and for the defence of the country as a whole, the fact that we are taking care of our own food production, our own energy production and those essentials, so that we will certainly have enough for all situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u145	Mr. Speaker! International cooperation has taken on quite central importance in this debate, and now European cooperation is moving forward, that is a good thing, but it is certainly not a common defence. On the other hand, anything that can be done to develop European crisis management cooperation, to combat hybrid threats and to provide cost-effectiveness for the use and procurement of resources is welcome. Similarly, there are no limits to Nordic cooperation and, in particular, bilateral cooperation with Sweden. NATO cooperation is important, but of course it has the limit that we are not going and we are not pursuing the obligations under Article 5. And yet all this international cooperation has the limitation that we are not outsourcing or handing over our own responsibility for the safety of our own citizens, for the integrity of our territory and for not being used for hostile purposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u146	Mr President! I was very surprised at this statement by the Foreign Minister on Turkey, in which there was no mention of the extremely worrying human rights situation in the country and of Finland's stance on it. I myself visited Turkey about two weeks ago and met local parliamentarians there. There are currently ten representatives of the legitimate opposition party imprisoned there. Journalists and scientists have been dismissed and imprisoned there, and the charges against 55 MPs have been threatened, in addition to the human rights violations committed by the Turkish regime in South-East Asia. In what way does Finland intend to take a stand on this development and to promote respect for human rights in relations between Finland and Turkey or in relations between the EU and Turkey? And how does the Foreign Minister defend the fact that Finland also sells weapons to Turkey? Both in 2015 and this year, export licences have been issued for cartridges,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u147	Mr President! Today, Europe is paying a very high price for the unrest in its neighbourhood. I am thinking of the Middle East, I am thinking of North Africa, of other regions that produce unrest, terrorism and also of refugees towards Europe. From the outset, we can see what are the factors that give birth to such things. Marginalisation, the great changes in the environment to which reference has been made, also the total lack of visibility for young people. We can predict, as Mr Vanhanen and Mr Vanhanen pointed out, even on the basis of demographic trends, where living conditions are changing in such a way that conflicts are forced to arise. This is something that we can influence, of course, through development cooperation, through the activities of UN organisations and so on. But it would be equally important for these international mechanisms to respond to conflicts to work in the UN as well as in the OSCE. It has now been seen recently that the major powers do not use these channels, do not trust these channels. Is there anything we can do to enable Finland, the Nordic countries, to strengthen the UN and the OSCE?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u148	Mr President! It is wonderful that in this Chamber the big picture has been brightened for all of us together. Insecurity in Europe and around the world is currently increasing. Finland is known as a peacekeeper and crisis management country. I would like to ask Minister Soin what capabilities Finland currently has to send crisis management forces or peacekeepers to such conflict areas, if such a request from the UN would come. Then there's reference to the poll. Personally, I am not a proponent of NATO membership, but in an opinion poll carried out among left-wing supporters of NATO membership, support for NATO membership has increased significantly. I find that a bit worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u149	Mr President! The report is more concise and clear, and it is good. In the past, Finland's role has included what has been recorded here that Finland is pursuing an active stability policy to prevent military threats. It is an important policy, including that information on the variables and related threats in the operating environment is constantly monitored and a situation picture is created and, if necessary, ready to change our own assessment due to changing circumstances. It must be responsive and fast in this changing environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u150	I will give the following answers to this debate to the representatives of Arhinmäki, Heinäluoma, Vanhanen and Salolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u151	Mr President! Firstly, at the request of Mr Andersson, I would like to make it clear that South-East Asia was, of course, South-East Turkey in his speech. Mr President! In every party's speech, criticisms of Russia have rightly been made, but the representatives of the Coalition Party, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Vikman, have also critically assessed the attempt to shush Russia's problems and actions in some way. Who's trying to shush it? Are you referring, for example, to the President of the Republic, Niinistö, who said that if Russia's criticism goes into competition, it will no longer win that everything has been said? Mr President! It is important to see that Finland's security must rely on a broad foreign policy, economic relations, other cooperation, climate and development policy, strengthening international law, peace-keeping, civilian crisis management, abstinence arms export policy. These are the means by which we really create peace, and in this debate they may have been a little too small.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u152	Mr President! I would like to go back to that part of our security thinking, which is now clearly the most important change in relation to our own potential for action, and that is European cooperation. This other part is pretty much on track. We know what is happening there: the Nordic issue, the NATO peace partnership, including our own defence. But this European cooperation is what is now living here, and it is clearly taking great steps. In fact, Prime Minister Sipilä did not at all open up the most essential issue that has now been raised, that is, the possibility of countries willing within the EU going into this structural cooperation, that is to say, to develop cooperation among themselves. What does this mean for Finland, and what will be the Finnish Government's line in this cooperation? I have noticed that Mr Soini, who was excellent at foreign policy, has been very silent in this debate on European cooperation, and I dare to hope that you will give us some insight into your personal thinking, for example, of this European
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u153	Mr President! We know that there are also very many people in the public sphere who are even opposed to or very critical of European cooperation at the moment. For that reason too, if we want to move forward in the defence dimension, I agree with those contributions, including the speech by Mr Heinäluoto, that we should be as open as possible both in terms of Finland's own objectives and in terms of preparation within the EU. This will be a long, thorough debate. As far as the Arctic Council is concerned, we should fish big fish, but we should be aware that success is not just up to us. Above all, it depends on the situation in world politics. I trust in the experience of Foreign Minister Soin that we do not, in the wrong way, bring conflicts between the great powers into this Arctic framework. It is important that the Arctic Council retains its capacity to deal with the specific problems of the Arctic, regardless of what otherwise happens in world politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u154	Mr President! In this debate on instability in Europe, there is too little attention to the fact that, in fact, one of the cores of this instability is the issue of refugees. It is often confused with the fact that it is giving human protection to those who have fled the war zone and so on, but then the second thing is that European nationalism has been given the strength of growth by the fact that this issue of refugees has not been sufficiently resolved. That is why we have this extreme nationalism in different countries. The European Union should now focus more on the decisive management of this refugee issue in such a way that it does not get worse all the time. We know that hundreds of people are always coming across the Mediterranean, such as Italy. Something must be done about this, we cannot continue to do so, because this means that discontent and nationalism, even extreme nationalism, are growing in Europe, and that is not a good thing. This is not the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u155	Mr Kanerva and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u156	Mr. Speaker! Two positive aspects of the challenge of what the OSCE, the UN, can do: it is very possible that, in the face of Europe's smoldering, protracted crises, there will be opportunities for further progress in the near future, both in the resolution of the crisis in Cyprus and in the positive management of the Moldova-Transistria issue. They are things where mediation offers opportunities to see a positive future, and they are done without greater publicity at the moment, so that the outcome can be a success. Now both of these crises can have a significant impact. In addition, I would like to emphasise that, at least for my part, I have already tried to open up both the UN and the OSCE's mutual mediation efforts, in which we both look at each other's ability to operate effectively together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u157	Minister Soini, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u158	Mr President! There are plenty of questions, but let us start with the question of the veteran representative Eero Heinäluoma, this EU defence and what it means and what it does not mean. Let's start with this terrorist attack in Paris and its consequences. In my opinion, France did a service for the whole of Europe when it activated Article 42.7. For the first time in practice, it was seen whether the Treaty of Lisbon was practically anything, and that was the case. And this was precisely the case when the French ambassadors contacted the capitals. This led, after the negotiations, to Finland replacing the French peacekeepers in UNIFIL, who were then potentially released in Mali, Central Africa, wherever they went. It is good to always remember that Member States have the capacity to act, not EU institutions, when they talk about these things. And when the obligation of military assistance is implemented, decisions are taken in Helsinki, Berlin, Paris, not in Brussels. It is important to note that this is intergovernmental activity and, of course, the EU institutions are also involved. Then, if you think about whether things could be done smarter, I have been thinking a lot about this through these defence budgets, because now it is obvious that the United States will be sending a message to Europe, especially to NATO members, that defence funds will have to be increased. That is probably one thing, but the other could be that we probably have a lot of performance overlaps in different parts of the world, perhaps also in NATO. More effective coordination, joint planning, perhaps joint procurement of materials can lead to a reduction in the amount of money spent, at least not to rise if these things are done better, more thoroughly and not so much on top of each other. Then it is good to say that there is no European army, no one drives it or duplicates it, they make no sense. But one of the questions we have to discuss is what Britain will do after it resigns from the European Union. And I think we have a clear interest in keeping Britain close to the common foreign and security policy. However, it is the most capable military power in Europe. Well, so it doesn't go exactly... Representative Heinäluoa took 3.5 minutes, but it was all well deserved. Then a few important things about the Arctic. For example: I have said this many times, every time I travel around the world, that 60 percent of the icebreakers and all the good ones are made in Finland. This is important. For example, we keep all the ports open all year round. We have a lot to offer for research, environmental activities and so on. And it is also extremely important for us to have a big chance that Russia and the USA will be involved in such cooperation with the Nordic countries and Canada. That's the best ticket you can imagine. It is just a matter of everyone participating. With regard to this hybrid centre, I would like to say a few things. It is now time to see whether it is an international agreement or a so-called memorandum of understanding, what is to be done about it. I do not think that form is the essential thing. Matti Saarelainen from the Prime Minister's Office is already taking care of this matter so that this is progressing in a concrete way. If the President still allows us to respond to this issue of Turkey, then of course Finland is, and I personally am, concerned about the human rights situation in Turkey. I do not accept restrictions on freedom of the press, I do not accept violence or persecution of the opposition. But let us think for a moment: If our Parliament had been shot, if our Broadcasting System had been taken over by a military coup and 300 people died, then these will have to be investigated. But this must not, of course, lead to these being used as a sign to violate human rights. That is, of course, perfectly clear. And then as far as the basic idea is concerned, I do not understand the effect we will have if we withdraw from communication.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u162	We will take one more round of replies, starting with Mr Paloniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u163	Mr President! In its position on foreign and security policy, the Centre has opened up the EU's common, ambitious Africa strategy. For Finland, as part of Europe, the development of Africa, particularly North Africa, is absolutely crucial. In addition to traditional development aid, migration such as migration is an alternative to extensive and ambitious EU cooperation on trade, business development, agriculture, education and other sustainable development measures as a whole. An investment programme to address the root causes of migration in Africa, for example, is currently under development in the EU. I would like to know what the Minister thinks of this opening — precisely this investment programme. It has not received unreserved support, but could this work, or will it break up the EU's common development policy? A small number of estimates have been made that it would be worth putting eggs in one basket in this respect and making development policy in the EU more effective together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u164	Mr President! I do appreciate the fact that Mr Soini gave 3.5 minutes of his reply to Mr Heinäluoma's good question. But somehow I still have a little bit of such a hollow feeling about that answer, which means that I think it is still a little blurry how you see it, Minister Soini, and how Finland sees what our future activities will be in relation to this intensification of structural cooperation and the idea that some countries can now, if they wish, go on doing this because it is an absolutely essential, big question. Of course, that is why it is very important that the government now clarifies what is the government's line, which is the Finnish line, and this must be brought specifically to the debate of the whole Parliament. I believe that, in addition to wanting to have this debate, the whole Parliament wants information, wants clarity about the Finnish lines and the attitude towards this big change, the citizens want to know that too. The people have a right to know about these things, and that is why I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u165	Mr President! In the course of my life, I have noticed that foreign and security policy is also increasingly climate and environmental policy, which Mr Haavisto spoke very well about, so I am not going to repeat it. We do well to see how it affects people’s living conditions and how they move. And so is the representative here. The guru well highlighted these root causes, such as the explosive increase in population. But I would actually have asked our wise, experienced Foreign Minister, Mr Soin, about how you would respond when citizens talk very much about how we have turned our backs on Russia and are involved in this EU sanctions policy, which is very destructive to our economy. I personally feel that we cannot ignore this type of infringement by another independent state. How would you respond to these citizens who listen to this: why is Finland involved in these sanctions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u166	Mr President! Economic policy and security policy have, in the past, been dealt with in a completely different way in politics, but it is also good to remember that security policy forces and freedom of action also depend on how strong public finances and the economy we have. This is what the entire post-war history of Finland shows. And if public finances are administered laxly, it will also become a security problem over time. It is therefore also of paramount importance, in terms of security policy, that we get rid of our sustainability gap and get back to the best credit quality. Then, whenever necessary, we can take care of defence expenditure, even if it should be increased, we can establish alliances and alliances as a desired member, as a partner, and, on favourable terms, be creditworthy even in all kinds of international political crises. That is why I strongly appeal to the government and to this House too to take the continuing sustainability gap in public finances as a priority problem to be overcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u167	Mr President! In his speech, Matti Vanhanen, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, said that there is no need to be a fortune teller when the effects of demographic change and climate change come together and conclude that Africa will dominate the foreign policy agenda of this century. From the point of view of the root causes of refugeeism, I would like to highlight the importance of climate work and the implementation of the Paris Agreement. In November, I attended the Marrakesh climate conference, where trust between developing and developed countries was built in concrete terms. Very concrete project contracts were also created. I am very pleased that the government has taken business inclusion and development cooperation into the agenda of foreign policy. The fight against climate change is an ecological and human necessity, but also an enormous economic opportunity. There are enormous opportunities here — let us not lose this now. Christmas peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u168	Mr President! The building of peace and its preservation must be at the heart of Finland's foreign and security policy. For this reason, Finland should remain outside NATO as well in the future. But instead, the role of the UN in peacekeeping and conflict prevention must be strengthened and clarified. In this process, it is natural for Finland to be involved. I believe that security and peace are of the utmost importance to us all. Therefore, in conflict prevention, inequality and the fight against poverty must be a common will for all of us, both here and internationally. However, even today, decisions have been taken in this Chamber on the government's proposal that take Finland in exactly the opposite direction, unfortunately. I would ask you, Minister Soini: what are the concrete measures you intend to take to promote Finland's international position as a peacemaker, and do you really not see any moral or ethical problem in the export of arms in Finland to countries that have committed the bombing of innocent civilians, such as children and women?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u169	Mr President! In the foreign and security policy of a small country such as Finland, expertise is central. Limited resources must be properly targeted. Since joining the EU in 1995, Finland has rightly invested in European competence, but at the same time may have had to compromise on the international competence that is taking place outside the EU globally and how the Foreign Affairs Administration has been able to resource its activities in, for example, Far East Asia. However, from my generation's point of view, I am most concerned about Russia's competence, what its current situation is, how we are developing it and how we will get experts in the future, not only in the foreign affairs administration but also in the academic world, in working life and so on. Minister Soini, do you agree?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u170	Mr President! As President of the Barents Regional Council, I have been a little surprised at how lightly, after all, the Arctic cooperation in this report has been taken into account, but it is good that, in this debate, however, the Arctic has been strongly raised. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has well stated in its report that there is still a variety of forms of cooperation in the Arctic and that the tense situation should not be allowed to interfere with it in the future. That is precisely the case, and this is also the basis of extensive cooperation between the 13 regions of Sweden, Norway, Finland and North-West Russia in the Barents region. We are working very pragmaticly there, and we have been very united in saying that there is no reason to give way to international tensions in that area, but that we must try to work together, as far as possible, between the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u172	Mr President! Just as Foreign Minister Soini said, it is very important to have a dialogue, a negotiating link with Russia, the United States of America, and also Turkey. If this communication, the negotiation, were to end, the problems would be even greater. I would like to ask when this is a question of what the relationship between the United States and Russia will be in the future. Could be possible. that Finland is the one who would increase this dialogue between these countries? Could you think that the future President Trump and Putin would face Finland on the ground, and then what would be the impact on Finland? Finland is a famous peace broker country, and peacekeepers have done excellent work on it too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u173	Mr President! This is where Minister Soini said that we are influencing the human rights situation in Turkey through communication. Yes, arms trade is quite different from maintaining diplomatic relations as an example. That is why rather strict criteria have been set for the arms trade, both nationally and at UN and EU level, because it is the nature of its interaction, through which countries can unwittingly contribute to the worsening of the situation in countries where the human rights situation is weak or where there is a great deal of instability. According to Finland’s official policy, Finland does not export defence materials to warring countries and countries that trample on human rights. This line does not appear to be true for Turkey. Yes, in the Left Alliance, we are calling for Finland to cease to trade arms with Turkey and other countries that trample on human rights. We have also consistently opposed the EU and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u174	Mr President! To this stock of Turkey: It is very important that Europe and Turkey are able to cooperate. That is quite clear today, and it is equally clear that Turkey should be anchored in Europe. It has always been, for a long time, Finland’s established line, and that is our long-term goal in the future. But at the same time, Minister Soini, we cannot close our eyes to what is happening in Turkey today under the Erdogan regime. There are human rights violations in the country, important opposition politicians have been imprisoned, party chairmen have been imprisoned, scientists, researchers, journalists — all of this is happening in the face of Europe in a situation where we continue to act as if nothing had happened. The European Parliament voted almost unanimously in favour of the freezing of EU accession negotiations, and this is something that we must seriously reflect on now. The aim is not to break the negotiations — semantics are very important here — but to freeze the negotiations and obtain a way in which we can influence the situation. What is your leverage, Minister Soini, influencing the situation in Turkey?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u175	Mr President! The debate on European cooperation, on its increase, has rightly taken place, in a way, in terms of security policy. The question then, of course, is what will be the European Union's ability to increase this cooperation in the event of Brexit being implemented, and I am sure that there will also be some security policy dimension in the Brexit negotiations, and that is a demanding task. I hope that the European Union will now really be able to make concrete progress in the field of security policy cooperation. Of course, this economic dimension also has a bearing on what Mr Vartiainen was talking about. We see the situation in Ukraine where the state has to beg for both energy and money from elsewhere, and then it is easy to come from outside to influence this situation. In other words, it is always important for a small country that lives next door to a large country to keep its economic independence in mind, as the Baltic countries, for example, have been well aware of it. Of course, we too in Finland must put our own affairs in order, as we are doing very well at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u176	Mr President! For a few years now, at least according to press reports, a major mosque has been planned for Helsinki. It is a project of approximately EUR 100 million, and it is known that funding would come from abroad to a large extent. The Helsingin Sanomat reported last year that this project has caused a lot of tension in the Muslim community in Finland, and Shiites and Sunns see things a little differently. I ask Minister Soin: firstly, how do you see this project from the point of view of the Muslim community? And then, on the other hand, how do you see how Finnish society is mentally prepared for such a project, which in itself is in accordance with the Constitution? We have religious freedom as one of the constitutional records, but certainly inspires passions in many directions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u177	I would like to add the following answers: Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Kaikkonen. Then the Minister's reply and then the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u178	Mr President! The dialogue with Turkey is important, but the debate cannot be the cartridges that Finland is currently exporting to Turkey. In the same way, all parties in Helsinki are critical about the funding of the Grand Mosque, but those financiers behind this mosque are the same countries that Finland exports weapons to. Here we see quite a contradiction. Mr President! This report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs highlights unemployment, marginalisation, extreme nationalism, the rise of racism as the main challenges for the EU. These problems are not answered by weapons, these problems are not answered by defence cooperation, but by strengthening society, by taking care of everyone. The question now is, when the Finns have always been critical of the EU and said that 'where the EU, there the problem': What a miracle you think that the EU
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u179	Mr President! After all, a good debate is diverse and involves different aspects. It reminds me, however, that since Turkey has played an essential role in our security thinking, I think it has been over a hundred years since the Finnish Guard waged war and the Finnish and Turkish security interests met each other. Perhaps today, however, for us, this issue of Europe is closer, and as such, I am very pleased with Mr Soin's response to this issue of European cooperation. I must say that it was music for my ears to hear your idea of what European cooperation means to Finnish security. But this issue of structural cooperation was still outstanding. That's the real thing, which is the biggest, most important new thing. If, within the European Union, some Member States are going to cooperate more closely with each other in accordance with the EU agreements with this concept of structural cooperation, what will the Finnish Government do? Is the Finnish Government involved in this, and if so, with what objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u180	Mr President! In fact, world crises should be resolved primarily under the auspices of the UN. Of course, that is what we are trying to do, but too often we see a situation in which the UN is practically incapable or paralysed to solve problems. The tensions in the Great Power Policy are also evident there. The UN absolutely needs reform in order to restore its ability to function to the level required. At the same time, the United States and Russia are increasingly discussing various crises in world politics. That is, for the most part, a good thing, but it is a bad thing if the international community is not sufficiently involved in these negotiations. I am referring above all to the UN, but more and more often the EU seems to be sidelined. For example, the EU's role in resolving the Syrian crisis has been rather limited. At the same time, the situation in Syria is tragic, especially in the city of Aleppo. What could be done to influence — or to influence — the EU’s and the UN’s role in resolving global crises?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u181	Then Minister Soini, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u182	Madam President! I will try as well and as closely as I have ever done, but these challenges must now be given priority. So I would now like to check: did you, Mr Andersson, say that you are opposed to the EU-Turkey Refugee Agreement? Then there's another thing. Now, let me ask you a question. What's the SDP's line? Is it the line that the negotiations are continuing, or is it the line that the negotiations are being frozen? Which one's the SDP line? I hope it is what is Finland's long line. Then: Where in the EU, there is the problem. Of course, when you look at the situation in which the European Union is in, there is no shortage of problems. But the problems need to be alleviated, and that is why we need to be active. As far as the Great Mosque is concerned, of course, it is clear that foreign funding and this Shiia-Sunni side is something that needs to be looked at. And I'm really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Of course, freedom of religion is something that must also be respected in such a way that religion must be practiced. Then, to this good reflection by Mr Heinäluoma, I would say, on this structural cooperation or other matter, that these are not staff issues and should not be mystified. What is important is to build more efficient and coherent planning and management capabilities for crisis management, not regional defence. In my opinion, this is very important when we work together to ensure that where we go: crisis management — no double order with NATO, and Finland is not a member of NATO. I think this is very important. As far as Africa is concerned, it is a continent of destiny for us in many ways. We have two possibilities: if Africa is being stabilized, if there is employment there and there is a prospect for the future, then we will have to accept African products from Africa in a spirit of fair play, or else we will receive African people through great immigration. These are the options. In my opinion, fair trade, fair rules of play — the first option — is better. Then, a soft man when I am, this 1325, ladies and girls: I think it's pretty good that sometimes even rugged guys in the world speak for women and girls. I was in Afghanistan just over a month ago, and the fact that girls are going to school, yes, that women are involved in society, is the only way in which countries like this can rise. And one of the reasons why Finland is still there in Resolute Support: we want to show commitment that Afghanistan will one day find itself in a situation that we, for example, enjoy here in our own country. I find it completely incomprehensible to put girls and boys in a different position. If we think about peace and conflict solutions, women will play a key role in this. We all have a mother, and at least I have to say that when the mother speaks, the boy will listen. I am absolutely certain that this will also apply in many other countries. Mothers are important. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank you for this debate. In my opinion, this shows excellent judgment from the House, and I am in no hurry — I have a few things to take care of, but I will then come back and listen to the speeches. Thank you for this debatable phase, and if necessary, let's debatate more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u183	Then let's move on to that list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u184	Mr President! Europe is at war with Islamic extremism. Anyone who denies this lives in a world of dreams that we simply cannot afford. The decision-makers in Europe are now expected to take decisive action. The decision-makers are expected to recognise the facts. Cooperation is the key to victory. Countries such as the United States and Israel are our natural allies in the fight against Islamic extremism. As I have written before in the book on the Migrant Crisis, we need as broad an alliance as possible to destroy Isis. To achieve this goal, we must also work with Russia, with the various Arab countries and even with the Syrian regime. Against this background, it is quite right that Finland strengthens the training of the Kurdish Peshmerga forces. In Syria the Western countries are opposed to almost all parties to the conflict, which seems morally spineless, but strategically it is a disaster. The results speak for themselves. The strategy for Syria must change. If you want to play a big game in the Middle East, you have to be ready to get your hands dirty. The European Union's external border control must be put in order, or else the internal free movement must be stopped. Europe needs to monitor more closely which actors are funding mosques and other Islamic communities, for its songs are the ones you are singing with the bread you eat. Moslem youths who are now vulnerable to influence are also suffering, who are caught by radical preachers. Will self-deception continue until another terrorist attack such as Berlin, or will it be admitted that the fight against terrorism is a war of world views in which extremist Islamists want to destroy the entire Western life? Does the Muslim community bear the responsibility that belongs to it? Mr President! There must be a constructive dialogue with Russia. The EU's sanctions are tied to the progress made in the Minsk Agreement, which would facilitate the conditions for discussion with Russia. Isolated Russia is not in anyone's interest. As a member of the Board of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy, I believe that Finland's knowledge of Russia needs to be diversified and deepened. In the report, Finland strengthens its position as part of the Western community. The relationship with Sweden and the United States is underscored. I believe that under the leadership of President Donald Trump, the presence of the United States in Europe will remain stable. Relations between the United States and Finland will remain good and will develop even better, if that is up to me. The Finns of Peru have official relations with the Republican Party, the Finnish Foreign Minister and the Republicans have a president and a majority in the Houses of Representatives and the Senate. Finland has excellent opportunities to promote relations with the United States. Let's seize this opportunity, because good relations with the United States are Finland's national interest. Mr President! The choice of more than 17 million Brits to leave the EU is the mandate for a gradual restoration of national sovereignty. Like the European Parliament and one of the most well-known foreviews of the Leave campaign, Daniel Hanna's case sums up: "The Great Britain has chosen the way further away from the EU's political union and a lighter arrangement based on trade." Finland must not be a driftwood in the EU, but must be constructively critical. The Brexit negotiations will last at least two years and will give us valuable time to discuss what kind of Union we want to be a member of. I hope that Finland will give Britain its full support in the negotiations on the EU separation. I believe that Britain's future relationship with the EU will be based on a free trade agreement as part of which the status of EU citizens in Britain will be defined. Finland's strength has always been a unified foreign and security policy. In a free society, it is welcome to express different views, but the common patriot's interest is above party politics. In the words of President Kyösti Kallio, 'I hope from my heart that the cooperation that has held us together in our trials will continue to be strengthened, for that will depend on the success and future of our people'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u185	Mr President! It has been about six months since the release of the Foreign and Security Policy Report. In that time, the foreign and security policy environment has changed quite a bit. One change is the EU-level approach to deepening the Union's security policy cooperation. It must be seen as a response both to the political crisis in which the Brexit decision in Britain imposed European cooperation and to the political crisis in which Donald Trump's election victory imposed transatlantic cooperation. However, the problems of wage competition, economic inequality, unemployment and the democratic deficit in the EU will not be solved by militarising the Union or changing the basis of the Union's cooperation to promote peace and stability in terms of lack of peace and preparation for instability. Instead of giving greater weight to defence cooperation, the EU would have liked to have reacted to the fragmentation within the Union by investing considerably more in reducing inequalities and unemployment and in the stability of the economic system. It seems that European leaders are now trying to convince a deep distrust of the importance of cooperation between citizens in the EU by using a truly old political trick: focusing attention on external and internal security threats and emphasising the importance of defence and military cooperation. It would really be important to get more detailed information on the more detailed guidelines for deepening defence cooperation to the Parliament as soon as possible. I do not share the view on the need to deepen defence cooperation, but I see that, from the point of view of international cooperation, the EU's value base and internal security, it is more necessary to focus on reducing inequalities and promoting the well-being of citizens. The plans for joint EU defence research and other deeper defence cooperation must therefore be looked at with caution. Mr President! In its own report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also criticises the fact that the report does not adequately address the export of arms and the arms trade carried out by Finland and its relationship with the country's foreign policy objectives and policies. According to the official position, Finland does not export defence material to warring countries or countries that trample on human rights. The application of this principle is, to put it mildly, questionable at the moment. Finland’s arms trade is increasingly focused on the Middle East. During this reign, Finland has granted arms export licences to Turkmenistan despite the weak human rights situation in the country. Armaments cooperation with Israel continues and ammunition has also been exported from Finland to Turkey, despite the fact that the country's ever more authoritarian regime has committed a number of serious violations of human rights. In addition, Finland has deepened the arms trade in Yemen with Saudi Arabia, accused of war crimes, and exported weapons to the UAE. In the vote of the UN General Assembly on the banning of nuclear weapons by international agreement, Finland abstained. According to Foreign Minister Soin, Finland's abstention was based on the continuity and practicality of foreign and security policy. According to the Minister's reply to the written question, 'we were not convinced that this initiative will contribute to the reduction of nuclear weapons'. The question is: what else would the government think would be better than a nuclear non-proliferation agreement at UN level? A credible foreign and security policy is based on coherence, i.e. compatibility between foreign policy objectives and practical policy. The use of arms trade with countries that have committed human rights violations or are involved in armed conflict is not in line with Finland's foreign policy objectives, i.e. the need to revise the arms trade policy on arms exports is clear. Finally, I would like to express my support for the statements made by Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u186	Madam President! Democracy, the rule of law and universal human rights have been the global basis for the development of societies. These principles were so-called values of Western democracies after the last world war, but since the 1980s they became increasingly and truly universal, independent of culture and geography. These social values were shared in international politics by a common vision of seeking peaceful solutions, cooperation and recognition of interdependence. The world isn't the same anymore. Its principles have been challenged. A controlled society is being replaced by a democracy based on free competition, in which power is being justified by pseudo-elections. Human rights are no longer universal, some feel that religion or ethnicity can define human rights. In this world, previous international policy rules no longer apply. The world of major powers and interests and open violence, the conquest and coercion of regions are returning to the structure of cooperation. The new century has brought back the principles of the early 20th century. That world is less secure for a country like Finland. Mr President! The world of foreign and security policy reports has changed dramatically in the 20 years that Parliament has been able to deal with them. The change has been taken into account in the Government's report. It is also unanimously enshrined in the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We also agree on the objectives of foreign and security policy. We must ensure that Finland is not attacked. We must ensure that Finland always has freedom of action, the right to decide its own affairs. In this respect, the dissenting opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs actually repeats the position of the majority rather than contradicts it. The best way to safeguard Finland’s freedom of action is to support and actively participate in international cooperation structures. We are not independent when we are isolated. The security of our independence and our freedom is a commitment to cooperation based on our own decision. We must do everything in our power to support the freedom of international trade. In practice, this means a conciliatory, albeit firm, attitude in the resolution of the British EU separation. This means the implementation of trade agreements, agreements between Canada and Japan. This means keeping the EU and US TTIP negotiations alive even in difficult times. We must also be more active in supporting the objectives of the UN. The UN is not only a symbol of the world of post-war cooperation, it is also a real factor in cooperation. It is in Finland’s interest to support the UN’s peace efforts and human rights. It is our duty to make a greater contribution to international development cooperation. Mr President! The theme of foreign and security policy has been our relationship with NATO. At the moment, it is particularly hard to say today that the policy of NATO cooperation adopted is the best option. NATO is a guardian of stability and peace in Europe and it is in our own interest to cooperate within it. The key to NATO's development is, of course, the United States of America, its most important Member State. Even during Barack Obama's time, the United States began to turn its foreign policy from Europe to Asia and to emphasise the responsibility of the European NATO countries themselves to ensure their own security. At the same time, Obama America, of course, announced that it would continue its commitment to European security. The next few years are a time of uncertainty. Is the United States turning inward, seclusion from the world? In this period of uncertainty, Finland cannot adopt new policies in relation to NATO. On the other hand, the adoption of a new, more active attitude is timely in relation to the European Union. European cooperation is not only good in good times, it is particularly necessary now, in the face of challenges and difficulties. European integration is a peace movement on the same scale as it was in the early 1950s. A long step can be taken in developing the necessary defence cooperation to support the common foreign and security policy. It is in Finland’s interest to be the first to support this development. Concrete actions in defence procurement cooperation are already a sensible solution for central government finances. What is even more important is the creation of strong, crisis-proof structures for far-reaching cooperation. European cooperation is not coercive. It does not reduce the decision-making power, it strengthens the ability to decide our own affairs. In the context of EU cooperation, it must be understood that security is a broad concept. It calls not only for a common security and defence policy but also for a common economic policy, for the development of monetary union cooperation and for the transparency of Europe's internal borders. National consensus is important in many areas of social policy. That is the most important thing in foreign and security policy. Let us now be united, let us avoid extreme thinking. Let us avoid extremist movements that can be used as instruments to limit our national unity, our freedom and our independence. Let us stick to the consensus that has been building the foreign and security policy line for decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u187	Mr President! Finland has long had a broad consensus among both political institutions and citizens on a basic line of foreign policy guided by common values: human rights, the rule of law, democracy, freedom, equality. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs points out, the importance of values is emphasised in an unstable, uncertain world. It is not self-evident that values are being expressed, because unfortunately, they are being undermined in many ways at the moment. In the turmoil of the world, Finland’s active stability policy, which governs its foreign and security policy, has proved to be a very effective and strong foundation over the decades. It is important that a parliamentary monitoring group covering all parliamentary parties has been involved in the preparation of the report. The Consensus Spirit has been useful to Finland. Mr President! The report examines changes in the operating environment and highlights how they affect Finland’s priorities. For example, hybrid engagement by different means of influence, both state and non-state actors, has become part of the context of foreign policy. This is reflected in priorities that highlight inter alia the link between external and internal security. The priorities include a comprehensive description of the main actors in Finland's foreign and security policy. Finland maintains good relations with all directions, which strengthens the stability of the Baltic Sea and the Arctic region. Finland wants to support the nature of our core community of values and our foreign policy context as a security community and the ability of the Union to resolve common foreign and security policy issues. In the changed international policy situation, the EU is seeking a new direction in the aftermath of Brexit, and Finland must be involved in this debate. The Prime Minister and other government have recently stressed that the EU must now focus on its core tasks of maintaining peace, stability, prosperity and avoiding unnecessary regulation. In addition to the EU, it is of course important that Finland is an active player in the international arenas of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the UN, and, of course, it is always important to us in the north that we are also an active player in Nordic relations. Therefore, cooperation with Sweden has also been very strongly recorded in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and defence cooperation between Finland and Sweden is primarily aimed at security in the Baltic Sea region and at strengthening the common defence of the countries. There will be opportunities for this wider cooperation next year when Finland becomes, for example, the Nordefco presidency. All the Nordic countries have expressed a willingness to step up cooperation in other policy areas as well, and there is still a great deal to be done. In fact, the prime ministers recently stated that the Nordic countries should become the most integrated region in the world. Then our relationship with the other neighbour Russia will be equally important to us. Finland does not accept acts contrary to Russian international law in Crimea or Syria, but we still consider it important that we have a dialogue, that we also have international contacts, that we are able to deal with current issues with all our neighbours. Russia is also an important factor in the development of the Baltic Sea and the Arctic region, therefore it must be involved in these discussions. It is important that the President of the Republic, the government, ministers have maintained dialogue, met their colleagues. It is also of paramount importance that Russia's expertise should exist in Finland, and it will certainly also be of wider benefit in the international context. Mr President! Next May, Finland will be the presidency of the Arctic Council, and it is great that this debate has brought it up so strongly. We'll have a leadership role next year. The Arctic Council also has great potential for leading EU Arctic policy on indigenous issues, environmental issues, logistics, tourism. At the end of the day, I would like to say that it is great that Agenda 2030 has also been firmly put on the agenda. It is important that different policy programmes or policy guidance documents are not read as different islands but as complementary documents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u188	Mr President! The Government's previous security and defence policy report was submitted to Parliament in 2012. The report now under discussion goes under the name 'External and Security Policy Report', which is given separately in the defence policy report. However, this report also covers a wide range of defence policy issues. The Defence Policy Report will outline and pave the way for the acquisition of the Defence Forces' material. In addition to these, the government issued an internal security report in May. All these reports are interlinked and have been prepared partly in a cross-sectoral way. The report highlights the link between external and internal security. Finland's total national security must be our number one priority. The environment in the neighbourhood has changed rapidly. International cooperation needs to be deepened, and bilateral defence cooperation with Sweden in particular must be promoted on the basis of common interests without restrictions, as is now being done. The increasing security situation in the Baltic Sea region is worrying. From the point of view of the Defence Forces, a change in the security environment requires more comprehensive situational awareness, the ability to observe and build understanding of the operating environment and the victims of the information networks. In response to these challenges, the Government aims to respond to the changes in intelligence legislation that are being prepared and, for example, through the exchange of the airspace image between the Nordic countries and secure communication links in the plans. In addition, cooperation in defence policy has been stepped up in the direction of the Nordic countries. Among other things, the report mentions that defence cooperation between Finland and Sweden will be extended to cover operational planning during both the crisis and peace. Finland will hold the presidency of Nordefco in Nordic defence cooperation from the beginning of next year. There is a broad political will to deepen defence cooperation in the Nordic countries, and in recent years there has been progress in this respect on the basis of the Stoltenberg report. The willingness to develop cooperation is enhanced by the fact that, as the Baltic Sea region's tensions grew, the Nordic defence policy focus has shifted back to the defence of the country. The problem of deepening cooperation has been seen in the different defence solutions in the Nordic countries. However, there are political conditions for deepening defence cooperation. Finland must be an active player in the development of the EU's common security policy. Our position as a neighbour of Russia and as a state of the external border of Europe is challenging in the current situation. Better cooperation between the EU and Russia is particularly in Finland's interest and would strengthen the security and economy of Europe as a whole. The strengthening of the EU as a security community has been included in the report as one of our objectives. Both the Commission and the EU External Action Service have issued policy initiatives to deepen defence cooperation. The most important of these are the proposal for a common mission centre, the development of a common defence policy, the establishment of a common defence research fund, the development of the internal market for the defence industry, the development of crisis management capacity and the improvement of the availability of the EU rapid reaction force. These were the subject of a decision in principle at the European Council. Mr President! The Government Programme's vision for 2025 calls for Finland in 2025 to be a renewable, caring and safe country in which each of us can feel important. There is trust in our society. This vision underlines the importance of equality and respect for human rights, since a secure and trust-based society is credible. Mr President! Finally, I would also like to say that Finland's strong defence solution includes the defence of the whole country, universal military service and military non-alignment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u189	Madam President! It is good to note that there is a good consensus in this House on these major issues that we have in our foreign and security policy. Every time we talk about foreign policy, security issues and defence, it can be found on these issues, and it is a very important factor for a small country, such as Finland. One example of what we can achieve with this unity was when, in line with Finland's position, the negotiations on the Arms Directive were brought through the EU. The whole Parliament was unanimous on this, and for that it continues to be a great thank-you to all parties. Madam Speaker! This is the year of the reports. In spring we received the NATO report, the Internal Security Report is on the table, the Foreign and Security Policy Report is now in this debate, and the Defence Policy Report is also on the way. All large entities, safety-related ones. For the defence statement, this report on foreign and security policy gives a strong back and base, and that is what we will be able to discuss in February. It will, of course, focus on defence even more closely and will address issues such as resource issues, these major solutions, how, for example, we will have Hornet's successor projects and others to be implemented and funded in general by the security environment and the Defence Forces that we want. In any case, we must have our own foundation in place. In foreign policy, it means that relations must be in order in every direction. We have a practical connection, a very effective one, with the West, with the European Union. We have a NATO partnership, which gives us support in terms of traineeships and security of supply, and yes, it is good to stick to these partnerships and be at the heart of them, just as we are in partnership with Sweden and in partnership with the Nordic countries. Sweden is the country with which we should continue to work together more closely. It has taken a great leap forward in recent years and is slowly starting to take concrete steps. This is what the NATO report, for example, referred to in many respects: in relation to the solutions we are making, it is good to think about them together. Then, of course, our eastern neighbour, Russia: Yes, we must have a dialogue with Russia. Finland has, in many respects, been a bridge builder and will certainly continue to be between the European Union and Russia, and what foreign policy and the debate on Russia under the leadership of the President of the Republic is important for our country. Madam Speaker! Four years ago, the world was quite different when compared to today. What has happened in Ukraine, the invasions of Crimea, the serious situation in Eastern Ukraine, the full war there, what has happened in Iraq and Syria, the rise of ISIS, the rise of this serious terrorist organisation there and the cruel acts that are taking place there, and of course the reflections on Europe, both through the influx of asylum seekers as a human crisis and with the terrorist attacks, which, unfortunately, has been the case in the past week, and of course all the pressure traffic that is taking place in the Baltic Sea region with this sabering — these are things that we must take into account in our own security policy thinking. Well, then, what is the focus of our core mission and thinking? It's that we have our own foundation in order. Its own foundation is, of course, the starting point for all these reports, but it does come from our basic solution, our defence solution, our general military duty and the armed forces based on reserve people — by the way, there are 96% of those in the war — and we want to take care of Finland as a whole and defend Finland as a whole. We have had a high will to defend the country here, and that will certainly continue to be the case in the future, when we stick to these fundamentals. I'll finish with a few words. There will certainly be more wool in the development of a common EU defence, and it is good for Finland to be at the centre of this debate and to plan it in terms of security of supply, intelligence and rapid response. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u190	Mr President! The timetable for handling foreign and security policy documents in Parliament has been interesting: the NATO report was given to Parliament just before May Day, this report during Midsummer Week, and the final reading is now the last issue before Christmas break. A great deal has happened since the report was presented: the British withdrawal from the European Union, the NATO Warsaw Summit and the presidential elections in the United States. A bilateral declaration of intent with both the United Kingdom and the United States had been prepared for months at the same time as working on the report, but it does not appear in any way in the report. The report highlights Finland’s foreign and security policy as a key objective of avoiding military conflict. Of course, this is the right objective, but Finland must also send a clear message that our region will not be used against any other state. The description of the operating environment of the report is a formality and a selective one. Fortunately, the report balances the picture much more appropriately. The collapse of the Soviet Union, the expansion of NATO to the east and the missile shield project have already had an impact on Finland's operating environment as such. Russian military equipment, activity on land, sea and air, as well as military training activities form another entity. Finland must pursue an active stability policy in the Baltic Sea region. It is also mentioned in the report, but it is also uncritically stated in the spirit of the NATO report that the presence and functioning of NATO will stabilise the security situation in the region. The concentration of military forces in the Baltic Sea region and the acceleration of the armaments spiral increase tensions and tighten the international climate in every way. The second party's power increase will be counterforced. New openings have also been seen. Russia moved its latest missile equipment to Kaliningrad, Norway is effectively deploying permanent NATO forces to the northern regions in violation of previous decisions, and a similar round-up of NATO forces has started in the Baltics and Poland. It is noteworthy that even during the Cold War, Norway did not invest NATO troops in its northern regions. Feeding the gear cycle is not in the interests of any country in the Baltic Sea region, especially Finland. Since the Cold War, the situation in the Baltic Sea region has changed a lot. When the Russian Baltic fleet had 40 submarines, 5 cruisers, 5 fighters, 29 frigates and about 300 smaller vessels in 1991, the corresponding figures are now 1 submarine and 8 larger surface vessels. Today’s debate feeds on completely different images. Mr President! Finland and Sweden should consider all natural possibilities for cooperation in foreign, security and defence policy. There is a natural basis for material and training cooperation, including replacement fighter acquisitions. It is good if Finland and Sweden keep up-to-date with each other's foreign and security policy solutions, but that does not mean that their solutions should have the same meaning, for example, as regards military alliances. The Left Alliance does not accept military alliances with NATO, nor with Sweden, even though this has been proposed. In the last parliamentary term, the NATO host country agreement was approved without proper parliamentary scrutiny. In it, Finland agrees to make its airports and airspace, its ports and sea areas and all important infrastructure available to the military alliance if necessary. Finland committed itself by signing the Commander of Defence Forces, not by any democratically elected decision-makers, to possible attacks through Finland. The question is: if someone goes through Finland, where is it going? The NATO host agreement is therefore a partnership not only for peace but also for war. In addition to the NATO host agreement, Finland’s international military activity, both at home and abroad, has expanded to an unprecedented extent and has gained new dimensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u191	Madam President! In my speech on the subject of the debate, I said that we should also try to look at Russia's actions on the basis of facts and with a view to the truth. I understood that Mr Mustajärvi disagreed with the assessment that Russia's activities in particular have increased tension in the Baltic Sea region. For example, if we look at the situation five years ago: Mr Mustajärvi, what has happened since then? Have the United States, the Baltic States, Poland and others suddenly started to arm themselves and threaten Russia, or has it been the case that Russia has occupied and illegally integrated the Crimean Peninsula, which has caused enormous concern, among other things, in the Baltic States and Poland that you mentioned, and which has led to a greater demand for NATO's presence?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u192	Mr President! I almost expected Mr Zyskowicz to make that kind of speech. The views of the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group were clearly expressed in our group speech and, in that respect, it is not worth trying to push them into anything other than what they are. And yes, if you look at how the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, dealt with this report, the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is much more relevant to the fact that there are others involved in the preparation of the Baltic Sea region than Russia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u193	Madam President! Mr Mustajärvi, I do not think that more iron on the border always means more security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u196	Madam President! The foreign and security policy report under discussion represents Finland's long-standing, stable and widely accepted foreign policy line. Our former, late President of the Republic, Urho Kekkonen, sometimes said that if you have to choose between domestic policy and foreign policy, then you prefer to choose internal policy. The foreign policy must never be at a disadvantage, and this serious, serious debate, despite the small amount of words, is a reflection of the common will and vision of the foreign and security policy we have here in Parliament among the parliamentarians. Over the past few years, Finland’s foreign and security policy environment has become more volatile and even unpredictable. The tension in our neighbouring regions, in the Baltic Sea, in Eastern Europe and even slightly here in the Nordic Region has increased, and the main objective of Finland's foreign and security policy must in future be to alleviate these tensions, to reduce the tension of power and to bring peace and stability, especially here in Northern and Eastern Europe. The European Union must be capable of a sensible foreign policy focused on big issues, and the European Union must be a credible foreign policy actor. Compliance with international law is also a very important issue for a small country. In these changes, which have also taken place under the leadership of the great powers, we must continue to emphasise the sovereignty, sovereignty and sovereignty of the peoples and states, and the fact that matters are being carried out in foreign affairs and foreign policy, mainly within the framework of the UN and its subordinate UN organisations. The migration crisis has also been a factor that has been a major challenge to Europe as a whole and also to Finnish society. In the context of the migration crisis and independently of it, Europe has faced a terrible wave of terrorism, and I would also like to pass on to the victims of the events in Berlin and to all of us who have been affected, and also to the tragic crime against the Russian ambassador in Turkey. The fight against terrorism must be fought, as Mr Simon Elo went through these different issues quite well here. All cooperation with all countries against this kind of criminal activity is needed. We need both police and military cooperation. In this context, however, I would like to emphasise the importance of Western values in the fight against terrorism: Although our way of life is under threat, we must not take action against our way of life and our values. All cooperation and the fight against terrorism must bear in mind the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. No extremism is the answer to European security or to Finnish security. Mr President! On this point, I would like to highlight the link between the report on foreign and security policy and the internal security report which was submitted to Parliament earlier this year and which I myself have been able to discuss quite extensively in the Administrative Committee. On this point, I would like to point out to Parliament that when we are subjected to this new form of so-called hybrid influence, which has been referred to here many times, so many of these hybrid threats, if we start to count some unmarked troops or if we start to cause sabotage or something like that, there are internal security authorities, the police, the Border Guard, the immigration authorities and so on, on the frontline. That is why this link must be very strong between these reports. When the President of the United States was elected Donald Trump, who is well-known for this Diili programme, and when we hear his statements, in which he has highlighted such things as making deals and a very brutal foreign policy line, I cannot fail to mention that the cooperation organisations are not enough in our foreign policy, but we must have good bilateral contacts with all the major powers of the world, such as Russia, the USA and China. The basis for all our security in foreign policy is our own defence and the maintenance of military service. On this point, I would like to highlight the development of Africa, mentioned by Mr Vanhanen, who had previously spoken in our group. I think it is very important that we increase our expertise in Africa in Finland. Africa is a continent of opportunities, but also a continent of many threats. President! As Christmas approaches, I would like to say that Finland's security, including external security, is based on the integrity of our people and that we can strengthen equality among our citizens. With these words, I can also wish the Christmas spirit of Finland that we remain a united nation in the midst of all these storms.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u197	Madam President! I will return a little bit to the activities of the Arctic regions. Finland is an important player in the Arctic region. The Government's objective is to raise Finland's economy to a path of sustainable growth and improving employment. Finland wants growth and competitiveness from Arctic activities, while respecting the Arctic environment. Finland’s Arctic policy aims to use our Arctic location and Finnish cold expertise. At the same time, action in an extremely sensitive Arctic environment should be taken into account, taking into account the needs of the inhabitants of the region. As Chairman of the Arctic Council from 2017 to 2019, Finland should emphasise the implementation of the Paris climate agreement and the UN’s sustainable development objectives in Arctic cooperation. Finland must also strengthen Arctic cooperation and its continuity during its Presidency at the highest political level. The Finnish Presidency is something that must not fail. It starts as soon as the year changes, it's less than two weeks away. The importance of the EU's Arctic policy is considerable, as it will enable Finland to become a member of the Northern Union. Cooperation with Russia and Norway is very important in the north and aims to promote, as far as possible, environmental and transport contact projects. The Arctic Parliamentary Conference, held every two years, is the most important cooperation forum for Arctic parliaments in the northern regions. The declaration of the last conference drew particular attention to the need to listen better to the people of the Arctic in their decisions on the region. Too often, the Arctic region is seen as a conservation area or a potential area of conflict. In fact, more than 4 million people live there. In addition to taking account of the inhabitants of the region, respect for natural values and sustainable development must also be better taken into account so that ecological and social issues are not left at the expense of the economy. The themes of the Declaration will be presented both nationally by delegations and internationally by the Standing Committee. Finland continues to contribute internationally and multilaterally to the stability and security of the Arctic operating environment. Finland’s objective is therefore wide-ranging cooperation based on common standards in the Arctic Council and the Barents Euro-Arctic Council. I welcome the fact that North Karelia was finally accepted to the Barents region.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u198	Mr President! As has already been said in many speeches, the world has become more unpredictable and dangerous. The old threats, the Great Power Conflicts and international terrorism have also escalated in the neighbouring areas of Finland. In addition, new threats have emerged alongside them: hybrid activities, non-state actors and cyber attacks. It is symbolic that we do not even have proper words for these new phenomena that describe them accurately. Yet they would have earned more attention in this report. Mr President! Hybrid activity is not traditional propaganda to influence people’s opinions. Instead, the objective is a lack of confidence — a lack of confidence in public authorities, the media and political decision-makers. When people no longer know what to trust, society’s ability to function will be undermined. This was, for example, the aim of the break-ins of the US electoral authorities’ information systems. They wanted to raise doubts about the accuracy of the election result, and the consequences of its suspicion could be more devastating than the manipulation of the direct election result. And based on information from the United States, the operation may be considered successful. Similarly, the flood of fake news about Ukraine began shortly after the unrest in Maidan Square. In the end, no one knew what was true and what was not, and that was, in particular, the objective of the operation. We Finns have already become the target of fake news. For example, Russian airspace violations experienced over a decade ago were reported in Russia in such a way that NATO-compatible fighters manufactured in the United States of Finland interfere with Russian civilian aircraft in international airspace. This was evidenced by a video of the Finnish Hornets filmed by a television crew on the Russian plane. Mr President! How can we Finns protect ourselves against these hybrid threats? The best vaccine against fake news and propaganda is reliable information and a strong, independent and diverse media that conveys it. We must forget our petty media grudges and strengthen Finnish independent media, both commercial and public. It is particularly important to produce news in the languages of neighbouring countries, so that Finnish, journalistically sustainable information on current issues is also available next door. In addition to reliable information, however, media writing skills are also needed. Media writing is a modern general education that corresponds to speech. While speaking allows rhetorical tools to express their own thoughts, it also helps us to see how we are influenced by rhetoric. Similarly, media writing helps you to notice when you are trying to influence us in the media: How to recognize fake news from the right crowd? How are illustrations, headlines, and choice of words used to distort the news? Media literacy alone is not enough for this. Mr President! Cybersecurity is a critical lack of security in Finland. As a technically advanced country, we are totally dependent on computer-controlled systems. Electricity grid, water supply, food logistics, media — all controlled by computers, and computers connected via the Internet. This was a frightening warning a year ago in Ukraine when a state-level cyber attack cut off electricity from 230,000 households just under Christmas. The fact that it was simultaneously targeted at the systems of several electricity companies indicates much about the resources of the attack. Emergency power systems in electricity companies’ control rooms were also shut down. The network had to be repaired in the light of candles. In turn, the extent of the attack was slowed down by the fact that the fault reporting phones of the electricity companies were blocked by computer interference calls. Finally, the attacker locked the main electrical centers' equipment software and changed the passwords, forcing them to switch physically completely intact equipment to new ones. Many people feel that this would not be possible in Finland. In reality, the mapping of automated systems connected to the Finnish Internet has revealed that much of the information security is weak. The defense of our cyber front is leaking, and there's no praise for border control either. The resources of the Finnish Communications Agency's Cert unit are absolutely pathetically small. FICORA will be able to cope with normal situations, but, for example, in the national online attack that Estonia was subjected to in April 2007, FICORA would quickly stop working hours. Cert is the fire department of digital Finland, and the occupation of fire brigades is not measured according to peaceful nights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u199	Mr President! Finland prepares its foreign and security policy for rapid and unpredictable changes in its operating environment. We're not isolated from the rest of the world. There has been an increase in tension in the Baltic Sea region: there is a risk that a safety dilemma may arise, which requires rapid relaxation, not further provocations from different parties. Our security is also undermined by the threat of terrorism, the latest example of which is Berlin. The perpetrator or perpetrators of that cruel act of terrorism are still missing. We don't know if it's north of here. The relationship between external and internal security cannot be overemphasized in these times. It is therefore important that immigration policy does not create attraction factors for these worst criminals, too, to seek refuge or hideout in our country. There are more extremists in Germany than ever before. The number of foreign fighters leaving Finland relative to the population has been highest in the whole of Europe. Mr President! Foreign Minister Soini has summarised the priorities of our foreign and security policy as follows: 'We will deepen cooperation and we will need an active foreign and security policy'. That's right. A good foreign and security policy is like an army: it is to avoid war. Politics is at its best a skilled diplomacy: maintaining good relations with foreign powers, in difficult situations between international law and Western values, on the one hand, and respect for the sovereignty of states, on the other. Finland has succeeded in this, through moderate and realistic state leadership. It is essential that Finland alone decides on its foreign and security policy in the interests of Finland. The advantage of a small and export-dependent country is to be on the same terms as the West and the East and not to question the fact that we ourselves are part of the West. Mr President! Our foreign and security policy aims at sustainable development. Pragmatically, Finland focuses on solutions-oriented approaches when responding to global threats, but on the other hand, we use our expertise to respond to them. For example, Finland has technology and know-how at cleantech. We are developing renewable energy, and the government is placing particular emphasis on the bioeconomy as one of its key projects. Our expertise must also be used in our development cooperation. Mr President! The refugee crisis is undermining the European value base, because, on the other hand, massive migration, on the other hand, involves providing security to those in dire need of it, but on the other hand, it is unfortunately also accompanied by new crime and terrorism. International cooperation and exchange of information, as well as own intelligence, are key to responding to these threats. Not only must the resources of the subsidy be sufficient, but also the resources of basic police work must be sufficient to provide the necessary information and to be able to react in good time. I have wondered what the point will be, after which the current asylum system will be seen as necessary to reform in order to prevent criminals from taking advantage of the asylum route and systems. At present, asylum seekers are engaged in billions of businesses and are not taxed at all. It is also intolerable that we cannot return an asylum seeker who has committed a terrorist act. Mr President! Especially during this period, we can be very satisfied with Finland's general military duty as well as with our extensive reserve. By participating in military crisis management, we will also develop our own capabilities and capabilities. Civil crisis management, on the other hand, enables us to effectively focus on some of the root causes that drive people out of their country of origin. Finally, I would like to thank you for your report on foreign and security policy, which will take up this eventful time of ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u200	Mr President! The previous speeches have already mentioned on several occasions that we are living in tense times. In terms of foreign policy, 2016 has been a real year of turmoil, and the news has been harder than each other, unfortunately, until the last few days. Finland is not outside the world, but everything affects us directly or indirectly. It is therefore important that foreign and security policy should be kept under constant review and updated in the new security environment and situation. This should also be done next spring, as outlined here today. In Finland, foreign and security policy has long been pursued by consensus, and citizens also have a good deal of faith in the line that has been established through cooperation. This agreement also supports Finland’s stability, as it is important that Finland can speak with one voice and that both the President, the Government and Parliament support the same line. This will also increase the confidence of other countries in Finland, because whatever took place in Finland, you can count on Finland’s united, good, consistent approach. For a small country, a coherent and coherent foreign and security policy is a lifeline. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs notes in its report, the security situation in Finland as a whole is still good but can be undermined by a number of different challenges. These must be properly prepared. Relations with Russia must be kept stable and functioning bilaterally, while Finland supports the EU's common Russia agenda. During the Finnish Arctic Council Presidency, Finland must promote stability policy and emphasise climate issues and sustainable development objectives. In order to build bridges, it is also justified to pursue the Arctic Council Summit hosted by Finland by participating, if possible, also the Heads of State or Government of the United States and Russia, or at least the Foreign Ministers. Finland does not close its eyes to the situation in Syria and Yemen, for example, and we use our own means to influence the ability of the international community to respond to the situation in the Middle East. Development policy must support, in particular, fragile countries and countries of origin and transit of refugees. Finland must be active in peace policy. Mr President! Foreign and security policy must also look ahead, and the new environment with hybrid influence and cyber threats must be known as well as possible. Global crises and threats become more complex, the rules of war may not apply, and the range of means of conflict includes a wide range of military and non-military means. In view of the growing complexity, Finland's resilience to the crisis needs to be further strengthened. Mr President! The UN is one of Finland's most important security factors, as the UN is the guarantor of a rule-based international system that is vital to us. Human rights, the rule of law and international rules and standards improve the security of Finland in a concrete way. The UN has an important normative role to play in setting common destinations and operating models, and the UN is the most important actor to highlight, for example, the importance of climate, sustainable development, women and young people in conflict and crisis resolution and prevention. Globally, Mr President, the UN should play a key role in the resolution of international crises, but, like other international institutions, the UN is currently suffering greatly from a policy of power and confrontation. This has seriously undermined the ability of the UN and the Security Council to act, that is what we can say. The UN must be reformed and the Security Council urgently needs a real reform. One of Finland's most important security policy instruments, Mr President, is to be a strong member of the international community. We will improve our security by committing ourselves to the values of the EU and the UN for human dignity, equality, peace and democracy. The international community is in a state of transformation both within the EU and within the UN and without reform. It is in Finland’s interest that Finland actively participates in the repair and reinforcement of both. Finally, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to thank the other parliamentary groups for their good cooperation this year, mostly constructive, sometimes critical. But this UTP report, the consensus in it, a good understanding with a little extra flavor is a stylish decision for this colorful year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u201	Mr President! It's pretty important to see history. Of course, it is essential to see the trends as well as to see what the realities are, where the facts are, and to continue to find the right conclusions. In its post-war history in particular, Finland has been very successful in all of this, and we have good lessons to learn from the old one. But, in reality, they are not enough for this situation, but the management of foreign policy, in an ever-disturbed international political situation, will certainly have to find the right guidelines at this time, in relation to these needs. It is important for us and, at the same time, difficult that the rules of the game, according to which action should be taken, unfortunately do not apply. The international players both in the East and, unfortunately, in the West also suggest that respect for the rules of the game, respect for the agreements that have been concluded themselves, is not the tone that is being played. That is why it is, of course, very difficult for a small country, such as Finland, to live in such a context, but we always have to seek cooperation, strengthen the basis on which international treaty philosophy, international commitments and international organisations can play a key role in the future of international development. We cannot help that insecurity has increased, confrontation has increased and power politics has stepped on the scene. Of course, for us as Finns, the stability and security of our neighbourhood is vital, which means the most crucial things for our own ability to act, our integrity and our independence. I do not believe that Finland is causing crises, nor do I believe that Finland is the one who alone is able to stay beyond the reach of international crises. Regardless of our will, the situation only wants to be in all conceivable concepts that, in one way or another, Finland, in the present networked world, will also have to react in one form or another to international crises and conflicts. Even the report says that the use of military force or its threat to Finland as a whole cannot be excluded. We have two important points with all our hands. The second is Russia's changed code of conduct: it seeks to restore its superpower position. Depending on this, in some respects NATO has also had to return to its original operational concept and return to NATO's original view that it is above all the North Atlantic Defence Union, rather than focusing on the already directed crisis management tasks. In this respect, the Baltic Sea region has become an area where these two mainstreams meet each other in different forms. It is therefore exceptionally important for us Finns to be able to secure, in their various forms, in the Baltic Sea region, including in the Arctic Ocean, but above all in the Baltic Sea region, the outbreak of conflicts of this kind into a crisis. This requires a state-of-the-art skill. I have to say to the chairman of the group's study group who spoke here earlier, that in Finland all the essential lines are quite consistent. Of course, it is thanks to the President of the Republic's foreign policy, but in this context, for the sake of fairness, I would like to say that I believe that the whole government and the Foreign Minister responsible for foreign policy there have acted in an exceptionally commendable and active way, with a view to safeguarding the fundamental interests of Finland and the international order and the position of multinational organisations. We are in a good position to interact with each other from Parliament's point of view. It has never been as good or strong as that consensus or as far-reaching as it is today, and in this sense it is good to continue to build a comprehensive concept of security so that Finland's position in the international market can be secured as an independent state actor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u202	Mr President! At this stage of the day, I would like to point out to my previous speech that, in my speech on the subject of the debate, I think I was mistakenly saying 'parliamentary preparatory work' when I referred to the work of the parliamentary monitoring group on the report, so let this be corrected here. I am pleased that the importance of improving the position of women and girls as part of the management of Finland's foreign policy was previously emphasised in this Chamber, because when we want to contribute sustainably to stabilising the world's crises and to achieving peaceful development and improving the development and well-being of societies, we know that improving the position of women and girls is the only sustainable way to do so. In development aid, too, I hope that the training of girls on the resource side and in other words on the girls is, for example, one that is still very much visible in Finland's actions, because it is a means of contributing to the fact that in the future there will be fewer crises and conflicts in the world, which will also be reflected in Finland's security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u203	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in particular its chairman, Mr Old, for his excellent speech, but also the whole of Parliament for a good-minded, high-quality and good consensus-oriented debate. In fact, as I said in that debate, I would like to look to the future and to the strengths of Finland as a small country, not only in Europe, but also globally. I had an opportunity about a month ago to visit the United States, both in Washington and in New York, and there were actually two things that came up with regard to Finland. The first was Arctic expertise, the second was our Russian expertise. They were actually the two elements that we discussed most with colleagues. We have talked a lot here today about Arctic competence, our strengths and potential weaknesses, but, as I said before, I have been a little concerned about my generation, about our Russian expertise born in the 1970s and its development in the future. Of course, I am glad that Minister Mykkänen, among others, has lived and lived in St.Petersburg and has mastered the Russian language, you can say, well. But it's not just Russia. The question is more broadly about the international competence of our Finns: how we are present in the United States, how our foreign service, and therefore our entire administration, and hence Parliament, can see political changes, as has happened now, for example, since the elections in the United States, how we are present in China, Japan, Korea, can say, more broadly internationally, Not to mention the Nordic countries, of course. As far as internal security is concerned, the report itself highlighted the importance of cyber know-how in the Committee on Economic Affairs, not only in terms of knowledge but also in terms of ownership. Who owns the companies, the operators who are ultimately responsible for Finland's internal security? We have seen alarming examples from the world if and when ownership is not in its own hands. We can only imagine situations that may happen if this is not the case. That is why I also stress at this point that we must take care of Finnish expertise, but also ownership when we talk about cybertechnology. One of Finland’s strengths internationally is cooperation between administrations. One might say that it is even the kind of export product that the world is asking. It is not just our Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we are admired for how small the Finnish administrations are able to work together. We have experience of this, you can say, from last year when the migration crisis was at hand. Finally, Mr President, I am not going to repeat them, I can say all the good speeches that each parliamentary group has made here, but I think that Mrs Kanerva has well said what I myself wanted to say, that what happens when the rules of the game are not respected is not respected at international, self-made agreements. You can actually say that everyone, almost everyone, has made mistakes, but no one raises their hand and says, "Hey, I made a mistake too." We have exported freedom and stability to North Africa, the Middle East, and the results are visible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u204	Mr President! In my speech, I would particularly like to raise the issue of wide-ranging security, because that is not enough in the report, although that is precisely what is needed in this time period. We live in a world where unemployment and inequality are increasing, international migration is accelerating and extremist and racist ideas are raising their heads. Climate change is a major security threat worldwide. It also affects the safety of Finns, both directly and indirectly. Despite this, we do not talk much about climate safety, even if there is reason to do so. We cannot escape climate change and its consequences here in the North either. Even if global warming does not have catastrophic effects here, the global effects of climate change on the economy and migration cannot be felt by us as well. Finland is committed to the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement, the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the EU Global Strategy. So we are committed to development cooperation, mediation, conflict prevention and crisis management. Finland’s strengths lie in science and technology, regional and multilateral cooperation and peace building and Arctic expertise. These are the strengths that we must make active use of to ensure broad security and climate security. At the same time, we must ensure that sufficient resources are found to implement these objectives. Without them, we will not achieve the desired results. We are prepared to pay for security, often substantial sums. It is important that this readiness also applies to a broad approach to security. Mr President! In addition to the wide-ranging consideration of security, I would like to stress the importance of an active foreign policy. This will enable us to influence the security situation in our neighbourhood and prevent tensions and conflicts. It is an instrument that we should actively use. A world based on cooperation, international law and respect for the fundamental principles of the UN is important for Finland. Despite their shortcomings, the UN, the OSCE, the European Union and the Nordic Council are unique transnational cooperation platforms. They agree on common rules of play and seek consensus. States are no longer the only security policy makers, but there are also other groups in the world that seek to monopolise violence in their territory. Nevertheless, the countries are still those who, through agreements between them, are looking for solutions to these conflicts too. Unfortunately, many international cooperation forums since the UN have been powerless to resolve ongoing conflicts, wars and crises because of a policy of power. Right now, the UN has even had problems getting aid shipments to Syria, where aid is urgently needed. Yet the UN is the actor who has the opportunity both to help civilians and to bring the parties to a common negotiating table. We must not abandon these organisations, even though it seems difficult to reach a solution. On the contrary, it is precisely for this reason that we must give them greater support and be actively involved in the search for ways to improve their ability to function. There is sometimes room for interpretation in various international agreements. In that case, Finland should follow the spirit of the agreements rather than the letter. As regards the international arms trade, for example, Finland should tighten up its current policy and ensure that we do not export weapons to areas where there is a risk that they will fall into the wrong hands and be misused. Mr President! The European Union is the main forum for cooperation in Finland's foreign and security policy. It is particularly important when there is a need for a broader response capability than traditional security thinking. The EU has a wide range of means at its disposal, in particular to address wide security issues and hybrid threats. It is therefore important to strengthen security cooperation within the EU. Mr President! The Nordic countries are our closest family, therefore Sweden and other Nordic countries are our natural partners. Closer cooperation between the Nordic countries in foreign and security policy is also to be welcomed. Together, we can be bigger than our size. Both cooperation between the Nordic countries and cooperation between the Nordic countries in the international arenas is an effective way to strengthen both their own security policy environment and that of the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u205	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is extensive and contains many important comments and guidelines. I attach particular importance to the Committee's strong assessment that the values which have been widely perceived as common in Finland form the basis of Finland's foreign and security policy. This is well said and well thought out. According to the committee, these common values include human rights, the rule of law, democracy, freedom, tolerance and equality. The values listed above are at the heart of the spiritual strength of Finnish society. The mental strength of a nation is essential in both foreign and security policy. When Finland joined the European Union, we believed in our spiritual strength and sought to find a place on the tables where solutions are made for the future of our continent. Finland’s influence was then greater than ever in history. If we allow our mental strength to fade, then we will find ourselves in the EU and internationally in the back row and in the backseat. In order not to do so, we must each day safeguard our fundamental values, our spiritual strength, here at home. The report and the committee report highlight Finland's relationship with the Nordic family. It's a good thing we're emphasising it. It obliges us to stick to the values that have long been common between the Nordic countries. We must therefore resolutely reject the political orientations that have begun to be implemented by some of the new EU Member States, such as Poland and Hungary. The values adopted by governments there are not about mental strength but about weakness. As a result of Russia's actions in Ukraine, it has been asked whether the same could happen to Finland as a neighbour of Russia. Would it be easy for a neighbor to take part in Finland through a referendum? Could a neighbor receive some Finnish support for the green men that he has sent to our region? Could the means of the hybrid war be used to confuse the heads of the Finns and society as a whole? Such questions have been raised seriously. Our answer is no, precisely because Finland is still a strong, spiritually strong act. We know what kind of values we stick to. We recognize the structures of the Finnish rule of law that we trust. We believe that we are always in a position to correct the shortcomings of our society and to bring progress together in a democratic, transparent and anti-corruption way. We've been, and we're still, mentally strong. This is also important in the event of a possible crisis. A spiritually strong society has a good resilience to the crisis. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also states: 'Citizens' integrity and cohesion are the most important element of their internal security and a prerequisite for their ability to respond to threats from outside their borders'. Mr President! Spiritual strength makes it possible for our foreign and security policy not to be limited to protecting and promoting our national interests. We believe that we have something to offer and that we also have tasks for global goals, for mankind and for our planet. At the end of its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs raises the issue of global developments in the refugee situation. Global migration is, according to international estimates, one of the strong future trends. In countries in a state of collapse, there is a large part of the population missing from the citizen's ability to live decently. It is likely, rather than just possible, that the pressure of the large population groups to pursue a prosperous and prosperous Europe will increase. Finland and the EU as a whole must make greater efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The committee therefore stresses the need to address the root causes of refugees, in other words, the circumstances where the need for refugees arises. Preventive mental capacity and expertise include all the skills to carry out mediation and conflict management. According to the report, mediation is a strong focus of foreign and security policy. This is an important policy, which, for its part, tells us from experience that Finland's intellectual strengths, working on our value base, include the proven ability to perform such tasks. President Ahtisaari and Congressman Pekka Haavisto are a few examples. Peace mediation is much cheaper than strengthening security through arms procurement. Both are needed, but mediation also requires a certain amount of financial resources. It is clear that the earlier the root causes of conflicts and refugees can be tackled, the better the financial benefits will be derived from the money invested in preventive measures. Mr President, let us not forget the human suffering that can be avoided when there are different ways of strengthening sustainable development. Investing in conflict prevention and improving the lives of the poorest is an investment in global peace and prosperity. Mr President! I'd like to say that I don't seek power, glory, I don't need gold, I'm asking for the light of heaven and peace on earth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u206	Mr President! The report draws attention to the strong overlap between external and internal security and the blurring of that interface and agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Defence that it is necessary to go through these interfaces in depth in the forthcoming security strategy for society. This is something we were clearly reminded of the recent night of Berlin's death, which brings to mind the terrorist attacks that we have seen in a number of European countries recently. When the terrorist movement Isis, a non-state actor, has suffered losses in the areas under its control in Syria and Iraq, it has become necessary to demonstrate its violent capacity in Europe by instigating attacks on fighters in their own areas of residence. Prime Minister Sipilä raised the need for information and information exchange on these actors and terrorist groups, and we also have intelligence legislation under discussion in the Parliamentary Group in Parliament. When this was first prepared in 2013, the project had just changed the security environment and the need to improve information for the state administration. Mr President! I hope that Parliament will take this project forward seriously and even urgently in order to combat these hybrid threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u207	Madam President! There has been an important debate today on the security policy report, and I would like to raise a few more points. Finns are well-known peacemakers and crisis management experts. I hope that this issue will be kept under constant review in Finland, since this year is the 60th anniversary of peace-keeping. The Finnish Peacekeepers have won the Nobel Peacekeeping Prize in 1988, and that is something that is not often advertised. It is an important indication that Finns are able to build peace, but it is also a reminder to us that we must have our own strong Defence Forces to train these peacemakers and peacekeepers. Participation in international crisis management missions also supports our own defence well and provides the necessary experience and know-how to go today. Finland must also be realistic with its geographical location, and the expertise of Russia, which has been highlighted in many speeches, is an important part of Finnish international activity. We know how to engage in talks with Russia, we know how to trade with them, and now, just in the last year, we have managed to manage crises with Russia. A good example was the recent issue of immigration, and this was a matter that was negotiatedly resolved under the leadership of the President of the Republic. These are things that Finns must consider to be important in the present and in a loud voice to tell us what we know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u208	Mr President! This has been an extremely good and varied debate, which has strongly highlighted the fact that we are in agreement on the great lines of foreign policy, and the same applies to the great line of security policy. In conclusion, I would like to raise one point — and this is not just because Christmas is approaching: I would like to express my sincere appreciation to Prime Minister Sipilä and his leadership for the work that the government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, has done in favour of relations with Russia. As has been said here, Russia will not cease to be an important country for us. Even when we disagree — and these issues of disagreement have been clearly stated by the Finnish national leadership — it is important that we have a channel of dialogue, that we meet each other and that these views can also be expressed directly between ourselves and, of course, that we listen to the neighbour. And in this respect, Prime Minister Sipilä has done an excellent job; ministerial engagement has been put in motion, and that is why we are strongly on the map to share our own views and also to defend our own interests in bilateral relations. I have noticed that the Prime Minister has quite a big role to play here, not that the President has not supported and represented the same line in his own relations for a long time, but that the line we have now seen during Prime Minister Sipilä's time is, in my opinion, healthy and confidence-building for Finland. It also gives us the opportunity to deal with difficult issues. It's the right thing to say and quote the president. The fact that it is difficult for Russia to come up with any threat that could be mentioned as news — everything is said, and impossible, quite a number of times. But when we come to our own affairs, this is not quite enough. There must then be mutual appreciation and a genuine understanding of what are the things we want to do with Russia. So, in the spirit of Christmas, a warm confession to Prime Minister Sipilä and the entire government for managing relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u209	Madam President! In this debate on the Foreign and Security Policy Report, it has been pointed out in several speeches that there is no longer a limit to external and internal security in the present world. I feel privileged to have been able to work in the Committee on Internal Security, the Committee on Administration and the Committee on Defence since 2011. Now I have also been allowed to participate in this follow-up group to the Foreign and Security Policy Report, and we will also continue to make a defence statement. Indeed, there is a monitoring group involved in both of these work, and I personally consider it a great shortcoming that the Internal Security Report, which is also under way, does not have such a parliamentary monitoring group. We heard today that the Prime Minister will bring a communication to Parliament in the spring on the foreign and security policy situation. I very much welcome this proposal. We in this House need an update on the changes that have taken place in this security environment since the Brexit and the US elections. In your opening speech, Foreign Minister Soini, you stressed the importance of Parliament's access to information and stressed the importance of continuous access to information. I'd like to ask the Minister: How do you see the information from the committees and Parliament on this whole package of overall security, internal and external security? In what way is the Parliament informed, the dialogue is maintained on this vast whole? At the moment, there is a great risk, at least as I see it, of data being silod in terms of internal and external security. Committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u210	Mr President! In recent years, there have been many conflicts in the world that led to the use of military force. The world is in a marked change, and the global transition has been clearly to a more unstable and unpredictable era. In addition to the direct use of military force and its threat, efforts to influence the internal political order of states by means of various means of information warfare have become topical. The development of security policy in Finland's neighbouring areas is extremely worrying. Instead of a quiet inland sea, the Baltic Sea has become the scene of a tense Great Power Policy. It is an area in which the situation has tightened very rapidly and where increased military activity, due to the abundance of traffic, is itself a risk factor for both aviation and shipping. In addition to states, major changes to the security situation have been caused by the activation of terrorist groups in Europe and its neighbouring regions. We have seen shocking examples of this in recent times. Mr President! In this changed situation, we need broad cooperation and sufficient resources for our own security authorities. The changed situation also reminds us that there cannot be an area in the world where there is a military vacuum. Every country must have a credible and sufficient capacity to defend itself and its existence if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u211	Mr President! On this point, too, I would like to wish the government and colleagues a merry Christmas. This morning we heard that the Arctic region had received such an early Christmas gift when President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau announced that they were banning Arctic oil drilling in their own seas. As climate change has advanced and heated our northern seas, these pressures in Arctic regions to exploit natural resources have increased, and this of course will also increase geopolitical tensions in this area. That is why the promotion of the protection of the Arctic region in particular is also a peace effort, and that is why I particularly hope that when Finland has a unique opportunity as President of the Arctic Council from the beginning of next year to take the protection of the Arctic region forward, this would be done with a complete heart. Merry Christmas and thank you for this year!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u212	Madam President! When, at the beginning of this debate, I took a strong stand on what constitutes a credible defence of Finland in the event of a possible threat, so that there would be no confusion for anyone, neither I nor the Christian Democrats are in favour of NATO membership, but we are in favour of a debate in which these issues are spoken of in their true names and what, seriously speaking, is the kind of defence which is also held in the real situation. And this is the debate that I am sure we will continue in the future. Here I register as a peacemaker — even the big book says that the peacemakers are blessed — and I wish everyone a peaceful Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u213	And Minister Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u214	Madam President! Just a few remarks. First of all, good conversation. It is excellent to have an exchange of ideas. To that end, we have different parties in Finland that have different opinions. It is very valuable that, in this very important foreign and security policy for us, we are able to work together so well and have such constructive discussions. Criticism is always right, it takes things forward. Then I have been pleased, Mr Mustajärvi, that there are people here like The sand of Sinai has been in the debate today. Fortunately, the fear that no one will be here and no one will remain and that the debate will not be good has not come true.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u217	This matter is now suspended. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u218	The plenary session adjourned at 4:21 p.m. and the 5th item on the agenda will now be resumed today. In the debate, Paavo Arhinmäki, supported by Li Andersson, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u219	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament decide to suspend the 2016 Parliaments at the end of this session. Furthermore, the Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament meet at the 2017 Parliaments on Wednesday, 1.2.2017, at 12 noon, when the 2016 Parliaments end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-21-ps-139.u220	Thank you for this year and I wish you all a very peaceful and merry Christmas. The next plenary session of Parliament will be held on Wednesday, 1 February 2017 at 12 noon. This plenary session is closed.
