ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u2	Mr President! Finland is a militarily non-aligned country that independently cares for its own defence. It is important that, if the situation so requires, we can get help from our partners. In order to be a credible partner, we, in turn, must be prepared to give assistance to our partners when they ask for it. In the provision and reception of mutual assistance The Treaty of Lisbon entered into force in December 2009, after ratification by the last Member State of the European Union. Parliament approved the agreement for Finland already in 2007. The Treaty of Lisbon states: 'If a Member State is under attack on its territory, other Member States shall be obliged to provide assistance to it by all means available in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations.' We therefore have the right to appeal to and receive assistance from other EU Member States, as we also have the obligation to provide assistance to other EU Member States when they so request. For us, as a militarily non-aligned country, the obligation of mutual assistance is a factor that enhances our security. Mr President! The fulfilment of the mutual assistance obligation requires changes to the legislation of the administrative branches of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Defence now has a role to play, which proposes amendments to the Defence Forces Act and the Military and Regional Control Act. In the future, the Defence Forces can provide assistance more widely than just to support another Finnish authority, and military assistance can be given to another state, the European Union or an international organisation. The Government proposes that, for this reason, the Defence Forces be given a completely new fourth role, namely participation in the provision of international assistance and other international activities. Decision-making on military assistance is provided for in a government proposal prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is already being discussed by Parliament. If assistance from the Defence Forces can include the use of military force, the Government must consult the Foreign Affairs Committee. If the situation is particularly demanding, the Government must submit the decision as a report to the Parliament for decision. Parliament is always involved in decision-making in one form or another, if such assistance may include military forces. An exception is the urgency procedure, which can only be used for EU Member States and the Nordic countries. Even then, the use of military force would only be possible if a terrorist attack threatens a large number of people or constitutes a serious and immediate threat to the security of the kingdom. At that time, the decision will be taken by the President of the Republic in the order in which military orders are taken, i.e. the Commander of Defence Forces will present the matter, the Minister of Defence will have an obligation to be present and to express his opinion, and the Prime Minister will have the right to be present and to express his opinion. The order of decisions respects the parliamentary system, but it takes account of exceptional and rapidly evolving threats. Mr President! The position of the Defence Forces personnel has perhaps been the most preoccupationed. The Finnish defence solution is very different from the majority of EU Member States with a professional army. In Finland, military defence relies on general military duty and a large reserve trained with it. In addition to the large reserve, we have more professional soldiers than we do in many European control countries. The general compulsory military service is based on the national defence obligation laid down in the Constitution, according to which every Finnish citizen aged 18 or over is liable for national defence. The obligation to defend the country is intended specifically to defend Finland’s sovereignty. It has not even been considered to extend it to mutual assistance based on solidarity. By contrast, some 8,000 professional soldiers and 4,000 civilians serve in the Defence Forces. For their part, the tasks of providing and receiving mutual assistance shall be based on the performance of official duties. The staff employed by the Defence Forces have the best knowledge of all the tasks that may be involved in the provision or reception of mutual assistance. As far as military personnel are concerned, this is not a new matter, as this was already taken into account in 2007 in the Defence Forces Act. At the request of Parliament, a memorandum of understanding was drawn up between the Ministry of Defence and the personnel organisations of the Defence Administration regarding the involvement of these tasks in the field of civil service. As far as paid personnel are concerned, the Government's proposal assumes that staff who have expressed their willingness and committed themselves to the international activities of the Defence Forces will be used primarily for these tasks. Finland needs to be able to fulfil its responsibilities in all situations, so in order to ensure sufficient human resources and skills, it may ultimately be necessary to exercise the right of management. It is almost impossible to prepare for all the situations that may arise with regard to the provision and reception of mutual assistance. Therefore, the Government's proposal also provides for the use of conscripts and reservists in these tasks. Their participation is always based on voluntary participation. The Reservists shall be appointed for the term of office of the Defence Forces for the duration of these duties. As far as military personnel are concerned, these are very limited tasks, for example in the naval vessel service. There is a limitation in the Military Code that their participation must always be based on consent. Similarly, it has been stipulated that military personnel must not be used for dangerous tasks or tasks involving the use of force. Mr President! The financial impact of the government proposal is difficult to assess. If no assistance is given or requested, this government proposal will have no financial implications for the Defence Forces. If Finland decides to participate in the provision of mutual assistance, the financial impact is due to staff costs and the special equipment required for the task. The amount of financial impact is always dependent on the form and amount of aid. A more precise and comprehensive regulation of the tasks and competences of the authorities will clarify the activities of both the provision and the request for assistance. As regards social impacts, the Government's proposal improves Finland's capacity to provide and receive mutual assistance. Finland will then have the formal capacity to decide on the provision and reception of military assistance. The Government proposes that: The legislative amendments to the Defence Forces will enter into force as soon as possible and at the same time as the proposed law on the decision-making process on the provision and request of international assistance and the laws contained in the Government proposal prepared by the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u3	The Minister's speech should give rise to a small debate. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u4	Mr President! I want to thank you, Minister. It's about bringing this proposal to the House. This is an important part of Finland's ability to act in accordance with its previous commitments, in this case the EU Treaty of Lisbon. It is important that we are prepared to provide assistance if necessary and that we have clear channels for how help is provided if it is needed, and then we can also accept it. However, it is a very important issue and it has a wide range of sanctions, so this deserves careful consideration in Parliament. I will raise two points. The first concerns the status of staff. We need to carefully consider whether this heavy staffing obligation is the right one. The second concerns decision-making. It is a tough decision if the Ministry of Defence decides to invite foreign troops to Finland — and vice versa, the Ministry of Defence decides to send them abroad. I hope that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence will go through this decision-making matter carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u5	Mr President! I agree with Mr Heinäluoma's thanks for this proposal, and I must thank him again in the sense that this proposal has improved along the way. There were certain question marks here in the past, but this is now more clear, especially as the use of military and reservists in these tasks is now clearly restricted, or must always be on a voluntary basis. This is a valuable and important policy. I am still a little concerned as to whether this law could be made to work without this coercion, including with regard to the staff, and I am sure that this is a matter that needs to be carefully examined in the parliamentary procedure. But no doubt this issue has already been carefully weighed up during the preparatory phase. Forced shipments to different missions to the world are always ethically difficult, and in that sense they should be avoided to the very last.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u6	Mr. Speaker! The decision-making system plays a very important role in this issue. That is something that is not being discussed here at the moment, but in Parliament, as this is the whole of the three proposals, this is just one of them. I consider it essential to raise this issue, but perhaps some time later. Instead, this obligation to participate in international crises is important, because naturally, if we need it ourselves, we must also be prepared to give it to our partners and to the countries to which we consider it wise. If this matter falls into the trap of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Minister, and if this obligation to defend the country does not apply to the staunch staff, so that they are forced abroad to serve the tasks that are seen to be reasonable, then we are in a situation where there will be a need for some routes out of the matter, because waiting for this law to go far into the future is not possible. And that is why I ask whether the Minister has in mind some cases, opportunities, views on how to resolve this lock when the Constitutional Committee takes a reserved position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u7	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his proposal, which was quite clear. This is truly an honour for Finland that we are able to comply with the obligations and fulfil the promises we have made. From this point of view, we certainly need to start with this reform of the law. Now that we have the right to provide and receive assistance through the obligation to provide mutual assistance, it would be an intolerable situation if we were not able to provide it if we were committed to it. This is part of European cooperation, precisely a positive part even for such a rather EU-critical person and representative, and this will contribute to the security of Europe and Finland. It is also a good thing that this participation becomes a voluntary duty for the reservists and only a duty for professional soldiers. As the last and most specific part of the question, I would like to put to the Minister: You mentioned that: A fourth, new task would therefore be entered in the Defence Forces. What different situations would this new task provide for that which the previous tasks cannot cover?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u8	Mr President! An interesting set of laws is on the way, and it is quite clear, as Mr Heinäluoma said earlier, that Finland should stick to the international commitments we have made, and it is easy to agree with Mr Kanerva's statement that Finland should provide assistance if we assume that we will also receive help. However, I would like to ask the Minister about this status of staff, to which reference has also been made. The Parliamentary Ombudsman's Office, the Ministry of Justice, staff organisations have voiced criticism in this regard. If this bill does not fall into the constitutional process with regard to the obligation to defend the country, whether the law will be made applicable to staff members who will now be employed by the Defence Forces only after the law has entered into force,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u9	Mr President! I too would have liked to thank the Minister first of all for the need that both Nordic cooperation, Finland-Sweden cooperation and European cooperation are now taking into account through this law, whether they are the EU's 222 or 42.7, aid or terrorist threat clauses or these new forms of Nordic cooperation, which have also been well promoted by the Minister. There is also Article 51 of the UN Charter, which is very rarely used, but I think, for example, when Kuwait was once occupied, he tried to ask for help from Finland on the basis of this UN Article, which is not the very dead letter either. But I would have asked the Minister when these new obligations and needs come in the direction of internationalisation: In what way will this affect the new employment contracts and working conditions that the Defence Forces will be entering into from now on? Whether these will now be taken more into account
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u10	Mr President! There are two things I will pay attention to. First of all, good care must be taken to ensure that Parliament's role in decision-making and access to information is truly secure and that, in the field of information, it is in the first place that we do not have to face the facts that have happened. Well, that's the way it's done. Paragraph two is this duty/voluntary aspect, specifically for the staff, for the reserve and for the military. But this obligation is, of course, the one that raises questions. There has always been a large number of people leaving for crisis management operations on a voluntary basis, and it is important that this issue is dealt with in this committee in real depth. I also noticed that the Chancellor of Justice has raised no objections at the moment, but still questions on this matter. At the end of the day, I would just say that when soldiers are sent abroad from Finland, it would be good to have a political consensus, a broad one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u11	Mr President! This is indeed an extremely important issue and an issue that we are dealing with. I remember when I asked Prime Minister Vanhanen at the time what kind of procedure this is in Finland, he said that Finland was prepared to give and receive help when we talked about this Treaty of Lisbon. That was a good answer, but it is quite a long time since we have reached the legislative stage in this matter. These terrorist attacks in Paris then aroused the general interest in Europe that better regulation and better regulation must be achieved. This is very welcome. It is clear that we are dealing with this very carefully in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and drawing up this report. One question I would now like to put to the Minister is when we talk about the urgency procedure in which, ultimately, the President:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u12	Mr President! I made a little fuss when the leader of the Finnish group still advertised himself as an EU-critical politician. Unfortunately, I have had to discover during this period that this criticism of the EU, especially among the Finns, is a disappearing resource. But to Minister Niinistö, with regard to this Treaty of Lisbon assistance clause, when the Minister himself has said in this Chamber that it is precisely a bilateral process in which the donor country can decide what form and content of aid is. This position has also been taken by the President of the Republic, and I understand there is broad political agreement. However, for some time now, there has been talk of equal obligations in relation to this assistance clause. Why is this 'equals' here, when it can be understood that there is also such a compelling force in it, that if a large majority in the European Union decides to do something, then the smaller countries, for example Finland, will have to follow what some other countries in the European Union have decided for us? What does this "equals" mean in this context when it comes to responsibilities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u13	Mr. Speaker! This bill is necessary, and it is good that it is now on the table. It has been prepared for a long time and there are no major problems in principle, but it is true, as has already been pointed out here, that this decision-making system still needs clarification. It has already been discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on both urgency and definition, and on the decision-making and inclusion of the President and Parliament of the Republic. We have to take care of all of these. I will address one question when Mrs Kanerva mentioned that this could become a constitutional knot. I would remind you, however, that it is possible to legislate in the order in which the Constitution is laid down, and this possibility exists precisely in situations where there is a broad consensus on the need for a change. The fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs already states that this requires a constitutional order,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u14	Mr President! Just to clarify that since there is a slight lack of understanding of the content of EU criticism here clearly in the opposition, I can tell you what that means. The question is precisely that this decision and any decision that the EU critic would support does not include a transfer of power or a transfer of income to the EU or between Member States. This is precisely the right cooperation between nation states, solidarity in crisis situations, the right brotherhood that Europe specifically needs, and not the bureaucracy that Europe does not want.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u15	Mr President! What the Finns have about EU criticism this season is not very much worth giving lectures to others about what is true EU criticism. It is worth recalling that, during this period, on this side of the year, the European Commission has for the first time taken a decision and taken a line that it is going to fund defence research, at first, albeit pre-research, then there will be a larger research programme, and then there will certainly be concrete actions in the field of defence, and that, And so far I have always understood that the Finns of Peru are against federal development in all possible situations. Is it now the case that defence cooperation, the construction of a military-industrial complex, is the glue,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u16	Reply, representative Heinäluoma. And the financial crisis is a little far from the substance of this opportunity itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u17	Mr President! I must say that I too have noticed, as Mr Mustajärvi did, the development of such things in the positions of the Finns, but in my opinion in a positive direction. That you cannot blame it, because, in a way, through practical experience, the Finns of Peru are better able to see the interests of the European Union here, too, on the side of defence, security cooperation, and that is to my mind a positive thing. Then the decision-making process must be in its own hands. I will come back to this particular decision-making role. It is therefore true that, when we have a rather clear three-lock principle in crisis management, i.e. in order for troops to leave the country, there must be a government statement, parliamentary approval and even a presidential statement, we must now go into tougher tasks, that is to say, those where the power is to be used — this is very possible — so I want this decision to be dealt with in such a way that we cannot, under any circumstances, have a more loose hand or a call for help from crisis management forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u18	Mr President! This is certainly a legal package for legislation that will lead us to today's present time as well. The fact that we can provide assistance to our neighbours if necessary, for example in the search for a submarine or in other regional surveillance situations in Swedish territorial waters, or something that was not possible some time ago, makes sense. The good thing about this is that the reservists and the garrison always retain this as a volunteer. There must always be consent, and these extremely dangerous tasks are not automatically assigned. Of course, I would like to emphasise that we have enormous potential in that reserve field and that the use of this expertise in these international missions is extremely important. However, I would like to ask the Minister about this impact assessment in this context. How it has been evaluated and how to assess how to apply for these tasks
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u19	Mr President! Minister Niinistö brought this up just in the right direction. Above all, at the worst, we have the opportunity to get help from other EU countries. There is quite a lot to talk about in this Chamber just that we are here to give help. And I would like to thank Minister Niinistö for having brought this in at this angle of income and for making it possible for us, as a small country, as a non-military country, to get help. The order of decision-making looks very good, and the participants are also clearly defined and defined. We also have a crisis-management veteran programme that is about to be completed this year. But I would like to ask about the responsibilities and assurances of these men and women: are they adequate, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u20	Mr President! I see that this obligation, if necessary, of the staff to take part in international activities is necessary, albeit hardly in practice, because, despite the media news, I am in the impression that there are people who are very happy to take part in international activities and that it would certainly be primarily broadcast. That the problem in practice is probably very theoretical. As far as that is concerned, when there was talk of the Finnish people's policy and of EU criticism, I wonder whether Mr Huhtasaari's excellent speeches on the subject are not there, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u21	In this part of the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Paatero, Mr Kärnä and Mr Pelkonen, and then to the minister for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u22	Mr President! The EU is one of our partners, and that is why the Social Democrats have seen it important that we also have this strong cooperation with the EU in security policy. These three legislative proposals, which are now already under discussion in this decision-making system, now become this defence legislation, and the Border Guard Act already exists, but everything will be brought to an end in the autumn, which I think is a good approach, that they are uniform. This fourth task is certainly questionable, so that, when we have had experience of peace-keeping activities for 60 years, when going there has always been voluntary, then in this system it would no longer be voluntary, perhaps even through the use of force. And perhaps an addendum to Mr Kari's question: How, then, do modern - day workers get this obligation? Is that the basis for dismissal if you don't go along?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u23	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for this very important proposal. It is quite clear that Finland must adhere to its international obligations, and with this package of laws we will be able to get help and also to provide assistance when it is needed. I think it is important that the proposal now takes account of the fact that, in the case of conscripts and reservists, participation in international missions is always voluntary. This obligation to participate in this Chamber is a great deal to talk about, and I would like to ask the Minister, because, as Mrs Kääriäinen pointed out in her own speech, there has always been enough voluntary staff to leave for international missions: will it be carried out in the Defence Forces so that people who do not make commitments to go abroad will no longer be placed in positions from which they could leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u24	Mr President! This proposal therefore introduces a whole new fourth task for the Defence Forces, and, as has been said above, the position of senior staff, in particular, raises a great deal of debate and rightly so. Not often is a good motivator, especially when it comes to challenging and even life-threatening tasks. After all, all the personnel organisations in the Defence Forces are in favour of voluntary service, and the volunteers will certainly be found as long as the conditions of employment are in order. The military's salary is currently based on the personal tasks of the peacetime. They have no military activity or use of force. However, these conditions would now be in the process of sending and even assigning staff to international missions. I would ask the Minister why, in a changing situation, the conditions of employment and remuneration are not being negotiated, or are we going to negotiate? And a whole other thing: has it been considered to set up a stand-up force capable of very rapid action, such as the EU Battlegroup, whose main task would be to defend Finland? These troops could be used, wouldn't they?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u25	To the minister, four minutes out of this toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u26	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your contributions — a great deal of questions which I am certainly not able to answer comprehensively in this context. First, Mr Heinäluoma asked or expressed his opinion. I fully agree that this bill deserves careful consideration in Parliament, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on Defence. However, I would say that the Ministry of Defence itself is not here to invite troops to Finland or to decide whether or not to provide assistance. This is a more complex process. But the most concern was the duty of the Defence Forces' paid personnel. Is it not a "voluntary dispute" if, in some cases, I tried to crystallize this concern, which is at least borne by representativesKaikkonen,Kari,Kari,Kääräinen,Paatero,Kärna,Pelkonen. So could this law be made to work without necessity? However, the starting point is that mutual assistance must be able to be provided quickly and efficiently. In the event of a decision to provide assistance, not all personnel deployed in different forces and capacities may be able to leave the mission, neither staff or staff, nor military personnel employed from the reserve. In the case of previous cases, departure may be prevented by domestic tasks, for example by the employer’s negative decision on the latter. For both groups, the departure may be prevented by justified personal reasons. In order to ensure speed and efficiency, the team must be supplemented with personnel with the right skills, first and foremost by voluntary staff with a service or employment relationship. I have no doubt that there will be enough volunteers. And to Mr Paatero, I would say that refusal does not necessarily lead to dismissal, I would consider the warning to be more likely. In order to ensure the performance of the team, it shall be possible to use all existing human resources, which may include non-voluntary persons. If there are not enough volunteers to carry out the duties, the right to work would be considered whether it would be necessary to relieve a person of his/her duties due to illness, disability, death of his/her next of kin, pregnancy or other serious family causes. In the case of employment-related staff, participation may require changes in the terms of the contract of employment, such as the content of the duties. The need for civil service is also based on the fact that almost all forces and capabilities notified to international activities have key tasks which could lead to the failure of the forces to carry out their duties or to the fact that they are not in a position to carry out their duties. I'm not going to list these missions, but there are quite a few of them. All I can say is that one electrician, for example, can stop a ship or a helicopter mechanic in a helicopter. So this is the kind of problem we could have. The representative, Mr Kanerva, asked the so-called "lock" question, to which the representative replied in part. I personally do not want to give a clear answer to this. I believe that this is an issue which, if it goes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will then have to be dealt with there. Representative Terho asked about this help, what could it be? The aid will be decided on a case-by-case basis, and it will be better if I do not go ahead and anticipate. But basically all Defence Forces capabilities can be used, both by experts and by armed forces. Congressman Mustajärvi asked. I have to say, it's about credibility. So if we want help, we have to be prepared to give it. I do not remember exactly what the wording was used by Mr Mustajärvi, but in any case it is a bilateral matter, that is, nothing equal, or whatever your term was. Mr Heinonen asked, as usual, about this insurance cover for crisis management personnel, and that is what the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is about to propose.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u27	And another opportunity for a few answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u28	Mr President! International cooperation in all its dimensions is also important for the Defence Forces and for the present, including the future. That is why I think it is justified that the law should be amended in such a way that help can be received here but, if necessary, given to others. However, I would stress that it is very important here that national considerations continue to be respected on a case-by-case basis and that these decisions are brought to Parliament and that good information can be used to make these decisions. I also share these concerns about the duty of workers, particularly when it comes to military activities. It is one thing to talk about international tasks rather than extremes, when the use of force is in use. As the Minister here said about this refusal that it would lead to a warning, does this not in practice mean that a refusal could lead to dismissal? I understand that enough warnings can lead to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u29	Mr President! Mutual dependence has increased, the security situation has changed, predictability has deteriorated, and situations are emerging more quickly. Against that background, the government's proposal is correct and responds to the needs that we have also committed ourselves to in the international treaties, the Treaty of Lisbon. My question to the Minister is to ask for international aid. This proposal says that assistance can be sought from a country, the European Union or an international organisation. My question is: What could such international organisations possibly be? Does NATO, for example, belong to that group, and in what situation, if so, might it be possible to ask NATO for help instead of asking another country to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u30	Mr President! We already have a long tradition in international crisis management. But now this law is quite different, and this is such a great place for discussion in principle. In that sense, Finland is different that we have military defence based on general military duty, but not in all the control countries, but in the control countries there is a non-voluntary system for the provision of international military assistance. As has already been listened to in many ways, the main topic of discussion is, however, whether it is voluntary or so-called coercive. I am sure there will be a debate here, and most importantly, I would understand that if we ask for help, then we must also get help. But let us hope that there will again be such a good agreement on this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u31	Mr Kari and Mr Tolppanen will reply, and then we will move on to the list of speakers, first of all Mrs Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u32	Mr President! A couple of firm questions. I would like to repeat my question: is the possible coercion limited to new military personnel, new officers, new soldiers? I would also like to see this decision-making level clarified in committee at the latest: what decisions will the Minister of Defence decide, what decisions will the Parliament decide, what decisions may be taken by the President of the Republic together with the government? During the last term, Minister, as Chairman of the Committee on Defence, you were very sceptical about the international crisis management work, including on the basis of your speeches in Parliament. Now you insist on maintaining the obligation for the staunch staff to participate in a certain type of international crisis management, although now in the name of EU cooperation. How many troops have you thought would be disbanded from the Defence Forces to these international missions if necessary?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u33	Mr President! Now that we have started talking about these workers too, whether they are regular staff or soldiers, I would like to ask who will take responsibility in such a situation that in a crisis management situation, military or civilian situation, there will be an accident and a soldier or employee will be injured and, for example, traumatized if there happens to be another such military situation, i.e. the emergence of veterans. Who's in charge of that? Is it the seeker or the target where this happened, or is it the state of Finland? Have these issues been taken into account in the same way as in the past, with regard to UN-fatters, also the psychological problems after we came home?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u34	I will give you a few more speeches, I see three. Mr Niikko — I had reserved for him when he had the first real speech. He insists on a response. I would like to point out here that it is not necessary for the President to give all the speeches in the debate that are being requested at the time of the debate. This is for the benefit of Mr Niiko and all the other Members of Parliament. But this time, Congressman Niikko, mercy is for justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, it is a good thing that the President of the Directorate for Administration and Security will also be given the floor at the debat, if you ask for it, and not just leave questions on the floor. But the question for the Minister himself would be this: when the Ministry of Justice has drawn attention to the fact that foreign troops have not been subjugated to the Finnish military leadership, and the argument is that this seems impossible to implement, and then the problem arises with this interpretation of paragraph 1 of the Constitution, so why is it not possible to do so, for example, how would the Ministry of Justice perhaps have wanted to do this in this opinion if it had been possible? The second question concerns these workers, their fears that, for example, this association of employees, Pardi and others, may have said that the costs of the operation may increase and that, when they are currently within the spending of the Defence Forces, can it lead to an increase in the cost of the operation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u36	Let us now respond to Mrs Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u37	In 2007, Mr President, Antti Sierla made a report on what kind of troops, strengths Finland could be involved in making its contribution to international operations, and he concluded that it could be about the size of a brigade in the Finnish case. If I ask the Minister this same question, how does he estimate: what size could be the maximum contribution that Finland could make to this international responsibility?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u38	My last response, Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u39	Mr President! Of course, in time, in the Constitutional Committee that I represent, this issue will then be dealt with carefully from a constitutional point of view in consultation with experts, but at this stage I would say that when Finland commits to providing and receiving assistance where necessary, we must of course be able to fulfil that obligation in all situations. As the Minister pointed out, the performance of critical key tasks must then be safeguarded. Musician Pave Maijanen sings in his song that it is necessary to do so "that the young men do not end up in new wars". This is, of course, the way responsible government functions that peace and stability in Europe will continue in the future, but Mr Soini has said and stressed that Finland always decides for itself what and what kind of operations we are going to take part in. I would also like to ask the Minister — the people are demanding, and rightly so, that he always demands concrete —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u40	The minister now has two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u41	Mr President! Representative to Kymäläinen in reply: Yes, national considerations must always be used when deciding whether to provide or receive assistance. The decision must be taken in the interests of Finland. This should be self-evident. Mr Kiuru asked for help from another country, the EU or international organisations, as the law says. What are these international organisations, whether they could be NATO, for example, he asked. It could be. Of course it's theoretical. I will take an example from last autumn, when France appealed to this mutual assistance clause and in a bilateral manner, after all, these negotiations were conducted. But of course it is understandable that if the situation with regard to Finland happens to remind you, for example, of a disaster, then help will certainly be sought from anywhere in the world where it is available. As far as Mr Kari is concerned, on the issue of forced personnel employed by the Defence Forces, yes, we must apply to everyone. There's gonna be a new mission for the Defense Department. It will then apply to everyone, both new and old. Representative Kari also asked about my relationship with international crisis management. However, this bill is not a question of it and I am not detaching any particular department, pool from the armed forces now to carry out this new fourth mission of the Defence Forces, the provision of international assistance. With regard to Mr Tolppanen's crisis management veterans in these possible future positions, in connection with this bill, I say that according to the Finnish state's methods of compensation we go. Mr Niikko, if I understood correctly, you asked who is in charge of foreign military forces in Finland. Management relationships would be determined on a case-by-case basis in accordance with Finland’s request for assistance, mission and limits imposed by Finland. Leadership and other practical ways of implementing the action would be agreed with the donor. Mr Kanerva asked about this report by Ambassador Sierla for 2007. It mentioned this amount of about a brigade, but this report, however, related to NATO, so this question is speculative, I cannot answer it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u42	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u43	Mr President! We must act as a united front against terrorism, for that is self-evident to us and we are in agreement on that. Exchange of intelligence and expert information between states is a priority and a sensible cooperation. Following the Paris terrorist attack, France requested assistance from other EU countries on the basis of the mutual assistance clause. If, however, we want to be honest, we have to say that the failures caused by immigration are being corrected throughout Europe, unfortunately, in retrospect and even in solidarity. France wanted to replace participation in international crisis management with the efforts of other EU countries and the release of France's own resources in the fight against terrorism. Indeed, there seems to be a trend in the EU to adopt laws that will soon involve all countries in internal conflicts. This is a real concern. To what extent this development makes sense remains to be seen and assessed in the future. Mr President! I would like, for my part, to give the committee a few comments on this government proposal. This government proposal would substantially change the possible role of the Defence Forces in foreign conflicts. Under current legislation, at present: The Defence Forces may provide assistance to another State in the event of a major accident, terrorist attack or similar situations. The assistance may only include equipment, materials and expert assistance. You can't use force. The bill will make a significant difference. In the future, it could target not only another country but also the European Union or an international organisation or join other international activities. It would no longer be possible to define what aid can be in practice. There is no limit to force. The Defence Forces could act independently, not only by supporting another Finnish authority. These relaxations of definitions are once again justified by the EU. And here we could say to Mr Mustajärvi that where the EU is going to meet the problem again. At this point, however, the committee should carefully consider what the Treaty of Lisbon actually commits and does not oblige Finland. The Attorney General's Office has commented that the law does not define the conditions for providing or requesting assistance or even what tasks the Defence Forces could provide or receive. In its statement, the Alliance of Petty Officers insists that direct combat missions in the war zone or under other warlike conditions be restricted. I believe that this is a necessary observation. The Defence Forces are the Defence Forces, and at least Finland should not participate lightly in conflicts in other countries except in expert and support tasks. I believe that the current government understands Finland's interests on a case-by-case basis, which operations are worth not participating in and not participating in, but who knows what governments and presidents will still be coming to Finland. The law should put clear frames on which tasks Finnish troops can be sent. The economic impact of the proposal needs to be looked at better. The scarce resources of the state should not be used for the Defence Forces' adventures abroad, at least on light grounds. The possible obligations arising from the bill, even if prepared for them, may entail considerable additional costs for the Defence Forces. This money should also not go away from protecting the defence of its own country. In the future, military personnel could be assigned to foreign missions without their own consent. Can the responsibilities of an official who has already been appointed be dealt with in such a radical and unilateral way? The staff of the Defence Forces are, in principle, committed to serving the security of Finland and should be listened to carefully in the committee's deliberations. The good thing about this proposal is that the participation of conscripts in foreign missions is voluntary. Mr President! Finland’s security is a top priority, not participation in vague international requests for assistance. There can be more of them all the time. In more than half of the world’s conflicts, at least one party justifies its violence in Islam, and there seems to be no end to it. We should therefore carefully consider the mechanisms that we create, by which Finland or the Defence Forces are involved in solving the internal problems of other countries. The Defence Forces are for the defence of Finland. This principle should be kept in mind as crystal clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u44	Mr President! In Finland, we have used to underestimate the security policy importance of the European Union Treaty of Lisbon. Now, suddenly, we find that it is extremely important. These terrorist attacks on Paris and Madrid have shown that it also has practical significance. It has been said that the European Union has no military force. It is not, but the Member States do. And this applies just as well to the armed forces of the Member States as NATO, for example, has. In other words, it has sometimes been compared that we could talk about this in a manner similar to that of Article 5 of NATO. Not quite like that, but in such a way that this is an obligation to help the attacker, which is very important. In order to understand all the dimensions involved, let us take the illustrative example of a Baltic country being subjected to military measures. In this context, we would really have to test the role of Finland in this state of affairs. So let us not belittle these problems that can arise here, but rather see this realism. When much is said about how we can participate in military aid abroad, we must remember what someone has already stressed here before, that is, that the same applies to us when we need help. If we impose very great restrictions on the way in which we ourselves participate abroad, then others may feel, for us too, that if such a situation arises, we need not be greatly assisted. And this is a very important point here. I asked the minister before who decided on the urgency, but if I noticed, he did not answer it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u45	Mr President! Thanks to the reform of the law, Finland’s readiness to participate in international cooperation in crisis situations will be strengthened. The legislative reform will enable national decision-making in the provision and reception of assistance within the EU framework and in wider international cooperation. Finland must have no legal obstacles to participation in the provision and reception of bilateral assistance. We need to be able to respond to rapidly changing situations. The proposal is based on EU solidarity clauses and also on mutual assistance clauses. Based on these, this legislative project was already launched during the last government term. The Defence Forces should be given a new role in the provision of international assistance and other international activities. It is important to note that, at the request of Finland, the competence of a team providing assistance to Finland to perform tasks and use force is determined by national law and according to the provisions of the decision on assistance. No one — no one — can dictate the terms of the mission and assistance to Finland. Mr President! Concerns have been expressed that the new mission will force Finnish soldiers committed to serving their country to "other countries strangers". It has even been thrown into the air that, with the reform of the law, Finnish troops can be sent to Turkey. Such a frightening one should remember that Turkey is not a member of the EU. The proposal concerns EU countries, and in particular the Nordic countries — including Norway, which is not a member of the EU. In other words, Turkey's intimidation would have to think twice about whether it wants to be an EU member. I believe that the concerns raised are unfounded. The armed forces employ just over 8,000 professional soldiers. International tasks are primarily carried out by Defence Forces personnel who are voluntarily committed to international activities. The participation of military and reserve personnel in international tasks will continue to be voluntary. A situation in which professional soldiers would have to be ordered against their will to conduct an operation outside Finland is not likely in practice, but at the level of the legislation we must also be prepared to do so. It shall be possible to exercise the right of management where appropriate. In the case of professional soldiers, international tasks are not subject to national defence but to official duty. A military officer and a reserve member are obliged to take a military oath, and a professional soldier and other hired Defence Forces personnel are required to take official oaths. Mr President! When Finland commits to providing and receiving assistance where necessary, we must be able to fulfil the obligation in all situations. Therefore, all imaginable situations must also be covered by legislation. The performance of critical key tasks, as emphasised by the Minister for Defence, must be safeguarded. Musician Pave Maijanen sings in his famous song that it is necessary to do so "that the young men do not end up in new wars". Responsible government in Finland is working to maintain peace and stability in Europe in the future. As Minister for Foreign Affairs Timo Soini has emphasised, Finland always decides for itself which operations we are going to join. Mr President! Pave Maijanen also sings that “everyone gets help, sometimes you realize you also give.” In a crisis situation, Finland cannot expect help from other EU countries if we are not prepared ourselves, if the situation so requires, to provide help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u48	Mr President! The Government's current proposal to provide and receive international assistance was triggered by the need for amendments to the legislation introduced by the Lisbon solidarity and assistance clause. It is now seven years ago, and now we are finally getting legislation that would enable international military assistance. The proposal now under discussion is therefore a legislative amendment to the administrative functions of the Ministry of Defence. The proposal would increase the role of the Defence Forces in the provision of international assistance and other international activities. A legislative amendment would enable Finnish soldiers to use force in international missions: for example, if an EU country were attacked by military means, the Finnish Defence Forces could also assist the country by military means, and, reciprocally, Finland could receive military assistance to defend its own territory. The draft law strengthens the EU's role as a security community for Finland. International activities as such are already closely involved in all the statutory tasks of the Defence Forces, i.e. the military defence of Finland, the support and participation of other authorities in international military crisis management and military tasks in other international crisis management. Finland's military defence is also being strengthened through international cooperation. Mr President! As far as staff are concerned, the draft law concerns, above all, the permanent staff of the Defence Administration and, in particular, the military. The provision and reception of international assistance would be part of the duty of professional soldiers and other personnel. This has been justified, among other things, by the need for the Defence Administration to have a means of ensuring that so-called key persons undertake to take part in international tasks. We cannot be faced with a situation in which a key person, such as a mechanic, would not agree to carry out his task of international assistance and would thus jeopardise or even prevent the task from being carried out. In the case of conscripts, participation would be based on a voluntary commitment. The purpose of the bill is therefore to ensure that the State is able to fulfil its obligations. In other respects, the participation of staff must be voluntary. In their opinions on the draft law, staff organisations criticised the fact that the amendment of the law would change the conditions of employment in the course of employment or in the course of employment. Some of the organisations proposed that only persons recruited after the entry into force of the law should be used for international assistance tasks and that those employed prior to it should have their express consent. Even if there were to be a consent procedure for professional soldiers, there could still be a problem that there would be no trained staff for all tasks. The staff pool proposed by the Association of Officers to be selected for international missions must be asked whether the Defence Administration can afford this. Mr President! Finally. In all our control countries there is a non-voluntary system for the provision of international military assistance. In my view, if we want to receive help in the event of need, we must also be prepared to do so if necessary. At the moment, we can live here in Finland in peace, but we know that the world is full of conflicts, and you never know what is happening in nearby areas and a little further away. It would be good if this bill too were to be brought to an end and unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u49	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Defence Forces Act, the Regional Supervision Act and the Military Act. The interdependence of countries and also Finland has increased. At the same time, various security threats have increased and past threats have become more complex. The response time to the threat has been reduced. Situations may arise and be escalated in weeks or days instead of months. An example of a rapidly changing situation is the immigration rush that Finland experienced last year. The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force in 2009, requires Finland to be bound by obligations that we cannot respond to when existing laws are in force. For example, helping Sweden with its submarine hunt is not possible. It must be possible to provide help, but also to receive it. With regard to the content of the Treaty of Lisbon, and in particular the mutual assistance clause: "If a Member State is attacked on its territory, other Member States shall be obliged to provide assistance to it by all means available in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations." The solidarity clause of the agreement and the mutual assistance clause bind Finland to the European community of values and the concept of security in a more positive way. However, the mutual assistance clause is a commitment between Member States which does not create new competences for the EU. The aid clause is equally binding on the Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u50	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! For a non-military country, EU security guarantees 222 and 42.7 are the most important. A little surprised, for example, I listened to Mr Niiko's speech here in the Chamber and to a few other speeches which have been detracting from the EU's security guarantees: restrictive interpretations and speeches that approach this issue simply so that, in all situations, we are aiders, we would be going to help in every situation. In Sweden, quite rightly, due to this type of debate, the question has already been raised as to whether these EU security guarantees have a genuinely protective effect. Even after listening to the debate in Estonia, Estonia, as a NATO country, has not given them much value. It was therefore a pleasure to hear that Minister Niinistö, in his presentation, approached this question precisely from the point of view of income that we, Finland, will be able to get help at the worst moment from other EU countries. For a non-military country, the widest possible interpretation of EU security guarantees is the best protection and support. This legislation gives the Defence Forces the so-called fourth task of fulfilling what we have decided in due course — or my predecessors and some of those who are still in this Chamber — in the Treaty of Lisbon: that we will, in every way possible, provide assistance to another EU country at the worst time. So we are talking about 222 and 42.7, EU security guarantees, if that is the word we use. The Committee on Defence will deal with this issue and we will certainly do so thoroughly as we have done. The order of decision-making is very sound and some good speeches have been used here. Those who will continue to be involved in these international assistance missions are also quite clearly defined and I personally believe that volunteers will be found for these tasks, as has been found for the rest of our international missions. In fact, when I read this international comparison from this government’s proposal — nine countries, namely the Netherlands, Ireland, Austria, Norway, Poland, France, Sweden, Germany and Estonia, part of NATO and part of non-military countries — there are so few countries that have such a clear picture that we are now in the process of being born in Finland. Many countries are approaching this issue with slightly different legislation, but this legislation of ours will, in future, respond quite well to what we have promised in the Treaty of Lisbon. We have promised that, by all means possible, we will be prepared to help the other Member States of the European Union who have been attacked, but we have also received a promise from other EU countries that at the worst time they will also be prepared to help us by all means possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u51	Mr President! Mutual dependence is one of the things that you naturally want to rely on for a positive outcome, wants to have faith or hope at the very least: to think, therefore, that the stronger the networks between states and international actors, the interdependence between one another, it also costs us the positive result that our own security, the securing of the foundation of our own existence, has at some point been dealt with. Yes, I'm sure it's good to believe that, but when you don't want to go in this cynical world, of course, that's enough. Unfortunately, we have seen that this positive belief does not hold out under all circumstances, especially if clear powers-political interests conflict with this well-meaning, positive belief. Nevertheless, we should not give up. At the same time, we must ensure that our own defence, our own nest is in good condition under all circumstances, that we are never surprised, not because of gullibility or because our own defence capabilities have been allowed to fail. Nevertheless, it is worth building a better world, and now we are talking about something that is important in this survey in terms of increasing this interdependence. Of course, we cannot build our security with all of it, everyone will understand it, but at best it will bring significant added value to everything that is also able to take care of Finland's national, national independence, the fundamental rights of our citizens. It is therefore worth considering this proposal with all its positiveness and seeing it as a part of the added value in the architecture of building Finnish security, but not only in Finland, but in all our civilisations, in the whole cultural sphere of which both the European Union and, more generally, the value base is shared by Finland as a society and as a state. However, this bill must be interpreted in such a way that it covers more than just the Member States of the European Union. Of course, if Norway were to be subjected to such an attack, which is being speculated on here, it is quite clear that Finland would be closely involved in such an attack. This is not, therefore, as some speakers have said here, only affecting the Member States of the European Union, although the main areas of interpretation are, as the speaker has rightly said, the aid clause and the solidarity clause in the Lisbon Treaties, but in particular the implementation of measures between Finland and Sweden in areas such as regional surveillance. This is an important added value for us, and that is why we should be involved. This is a new opening, a new opportunity to capture Finland's security, but in cooperation with the international community. In some ways, I see here only the basis for a positive view of this. The importance of mutual assistance, i.e. the provision of assistance and the reception of assistance, is central to this, i.e. broader than what crisis management as such covers and means. This is an important issue for us Finns, whose own national history gives their own evidence of how to deal with such matters. Of course, there are sensitive points here, mainly as to how to deal with the arrangements in which this obligation of service settles. On the other hand, it must be understood that the whole credibility of this bill rests on the fact that we are able, when help is needed, to give it at the time and, of course, also in the mirror picture, in the opposite direction. Of course, if one expects help, it must also be possible to provide it under all circumstances. This is not, of course, a problem-free one, since the obligation to defend the national defence of Article 127 of the Constitution has not been interpreted and looked at until the end. I very much hope that there will be a positive solution that will enable Finland to be actively involved in such arrangements. At the moment we do not have the opportunity to know whether we can retroactively assign tasks to the staunch staff which have not been known when entering the service. This will remain to be seen later, but we hope that there will be positive solutions which will help us to look forward. This also suggests that there is a need for greater cooperation between the European Union and NATO in strengthening the future of our continent and our security environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u52	Mr President! As has already been shown in this debate today, this legislation that has now been brought is necessary and long-awaited. As Finland, for example, we have already committed ourselves to this joint aid through the EU, and, on the other hand, in cooperation with Finland — Sweden, we have a very strong political consensus that it needs to move forward, and that is why it is important to update this legislation in order to provide and obtain international aid. As has also been said here, it is not just a question of giving aid, it is just as much a matter of getting the help that must be made possible by this legislation. However, in this proposal the debate has now risen above all this decision-making system and then the question of voluntaryity or coercion. With regard to the decision-making system, it is important that, when decisions are taken, there is a broad political consensus behind it and that the decision-making system must be clear and transparent, while at the same time being flexible enough to be able to take decisions quickly enough. But I think it is particularly important to use this urgency method. It should be clearly defined in the legislation when it will be used. The Minister then stated that those seconded to assistance are primarily persons in permanent employment and service. I'm sure this makes sense. It is good, however, that voluntary reservists are also able to participate in this, just as they do in crisis management tasks today. But then, if we now define the requirement for these workers, who are already in employment, as it were, retrospectively, then of course this constitutional question will arise as to whether this can be done. This is, of course, a good thing for us, as this process goes on, to clarify clearly. As far as future workers are concerned, this amendment of the law is not a problem, because they then know what they are committed to when they sign a contract of employment or a contract of employment. But, indeed, if this is the case, then there may be isolated cases that need to be sent without the consent of the appropriate person. In that respect, I would argue that if such a decision were to be taken, then those in these employment relationships should have the possibility, before the law comes into force, of resigning from it without any wage or other such labour-policy problems. Of course, if you voluntarily resign, you will be caught in the rough, but in this case this should not be the case. When similar legislation was adopted in Sweden, it was then that all those who were employed there were asked and sought the consent. I don't know if we need to go through this heavy procedure, I don't think. There were just isolated cases that refused to do so, so that I do not believe that it would cause us any major problem either, that we would have very many people working for the Defence Forces who would refuse to do so. But I would think it important that, if there are such persons, they could resign in this case without any problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u53	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here about the situation in Finland, security, the right to help and the obligation to provide assistance to others. That’s what it is, if you give to someone else, you expect to get help yourself. I myself wanted to give some thought to that obligation to work, particularly retrospectively. As has been said here, it can become a problem. Here, too, the Minister said that this will certainly be dealt with by all the committees and Parliament with special care. I'm sure I did. We in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs hear a lot of experts and then give a well-considered opinion on the matter. As far as I am concerned, if there are some key people, there may sometimes be a situation that this individual person would be forced to move on to the tasks if there is no such volunteer. Of course, the nature of the work is often the type of work that someone might have thought that this work could sometimes change, and not this so-called job. the obligation to work, the obligation to participate in the work, is of course a completely new phenomenon. If you think about it, we have a lot of emergency work to do: the police, the doctors do this kind of work. Of course, they have known in advance what work they are going to do, but this is not a new institution in that way, although I understand that there may be military activity or action in such an area, which of course will change the situation very much. That is where Mr Mikkonen made good points to me. For example, consent or this type of agreement, the possibility of resigning even if other tasks, is not a bad idea at all. All I can say now is that it sounded as if Mr Mikkonen had been thinking about these and really refreshing, new thinking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u54	Mr President! Changes in the law are needed in order to allow Finland to participate fully in cooperation in accordance with Finland's foreign and security policy guidelines and international obligations. The tasks of the Defence Forces also need to be changed to enable international assistance to be provided and received, in particular in situations of implementation of the EU solidarity clause and the obligations under the mutual assistance clause. This government proposal with its legislative amendments is very welcome. It is high time that our legislation also recognised the security policy importance of the Treaty of Lisbon. Finland has been able to respond to the French request for assistance following the terrorist attacks by means of the current legislation. However, it is difficult to assess the threats that the countries of the European Union may face in the future. For the second time, crisis management assistance may not be appropriate. That is why our legislation must support the fact that Finland takes the obligation to provide assistance under the Treaty of Lisbon seriously. Finland is prepared to provide assistance to other Member States if necessary, and we also expect to receive assistance from other Member States in the situations referred to in the obligation. Mr President! We are very much in agreement here in Parliament on the need for these legislative changes. However, this proposal, which is the subject of the Ministry of Defence's administration, contains very sensitive amendments, the details of which still need to be carefully considered in committee. The participation of the Reserve and those in military service in international missions is voluntary and, in the case of garrisonmen, participation also includes restrictions on dangerous tasks. That's good. In the case of parent staff, participation is compulsory, even if those who wish to do so are given priority. According to the Ministry of Defence, volunteering is not enough for those working in the Defence Forces because it is critical key tasks. The implementation of international assistance and other international activities requires efficiency and speed, which will be met by the obligation. On the other hand, there would be no rapid deployment of troops in any case, because Finland does not have a separate rapid reaction force and almost without exception there is a need for reservists, who therefore need separate consent. In other words, it always takes time to set up a force. There have also always been enough leavers for military crisis management missions, even though participation has been voluntary. Mr President! Finally, the removal of legislative locks does not mean, however, that aid to other countries becomes commonplace or self-evident. The law is being passed on to very exceptional situations, whether it is about giving or asking for help. The Supreme Government bodies will carefully consider whether to send our troops abroad or whether, in a possible crisis situation in Finland, there is a need to make a request for assistance to EU countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u55	Mr President! In many speeches, transparency has been emphasised in dealing with this important and, in some cases, difficult new issue. This is a matter of necessity or voluntaryity. Of course, this is a so-called problem, if there is only one for a while. The new posts will, as a matter of principle, know what might be expected of them. And whenever, I repeat, Finnish soldiers are sent abroad for any task, it must be done as carefully as possible, because anything can happen. And we must always remember that all this must have the broadest possible acceptance of the citizens, not to mention the approval of Parliament. Then point 2: We are talking here about fulfilling the Treaty of Lisbon for ourselves, about being able to do it if the real situation arises, as it has already been, and this has already been tested, and Finland has done just fine in it. I think it is worth remembering the basic thing in the back of the head all the time that when you expect to get help in emergency situations, crises and other accidents, then you have to be prepared to give help. This is bilateral; this is mutual action. That is why I want to say that the European Union is a security community, and perhaps primarily a security community, although trade and the economy are important, Schengen is important, and so on. But this security community is essential to this whole EU activity, and Lisbon is implementing this function. Finally, as important as this EU matter is, we must remember that basically maintaining our own defence is the iron base that cannot be compromised and that we are still facing tough debates in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u56	Mr President! It is no surprise that, as an EU critic, I am not very excited about the Treaty of Lisbon as such, but as an EU critic I am not blind to the fact that the EU can sometimes become something good, and this is now, as Mr Terho has pointed out, the good, sensible cooperation between states which also improves the security situation in Finland. Of course, although Mr Mustajärvi is no longer here, it has to be said that for the people of Finland, EU criticalness is a renewable resource: whenever the EU's criticalness is about to decrease, then the EU will inevitably increase it again. But there is a great deal of concern here about this so-called obligation, and it must be said once again that, in the case of professional soldiers, international tasks are not covered by the duty of defence, but by the duty of duty. A military officer and a reserve member shall be required to take a military oath, and then a professional soldier and other hired personnel shall be required to take an official oath. It's important to remember these things. And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where I am dealing with this matter, will of course look carefully at this matter. But if you think, for example, of the example of Sweden, which has been raised here — Mr Mikkonen raised here — then in Sweden it really was an isolated case, that is, one person voluntarily resigned from the Swedish Defence Forces because of this reform that was carried out there. So it wasn't much of a mix-up. In my opinion, this is also a kind of philosophical question: do we, then, have the only army in the world that professional soldiers would not, in principle, have to carry out the orders of the government? I think this will take a long time to think about if we go down that road. And, in the final analysis, I believe it must be the case that, if we are to be able to fulfil this obligation under all circumstances, so to speak, the last resort must be this duty — if we now want to use the word 'force' to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u57	Mr President! It is also quite right to have a debate about the fact that we have genuine troops that we can use in such situations and in such projects. After all, we have a Battlegroup, the EU Battlegroups, a rapid reaction force that is not directly involved in this, but we need to consider whether we should create such a model of our own, which would be the forces we would use, what we could offer in such a situation when we are in a position to provide help and not receive it. So we need to create the right readiness to provide help. In these discussions, there has been quite a lot of discussion about the submarine hunt, some of which, in addition to these terrorist attacks, stemmed from the need to amend legislation: It is not possible to send a garrison to such a task; it is a dangerous task in all situations. A submarine driven to the corner or to the bottom of the ground is not a task in which militarymen could be used in any way. This is just one example. As a general rule, military assistance should be based on voluntary service, and I believe that these voluntary actors will be found — and a very important issue that needs to be addressed by the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence is the conditions of employment for these tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u58	Mr President! This hall has now spent about an hour and a half saying to the mantra that if you are going to get help, you must be ready to give help. Isn't that a pretty obvious thing to repeat dozens of times? This brings to mind whether we are European students again. Here we keep considering what help we can give others, what we may have to give others, what we can force our own soldiers to give others, but why does no one ask what help we can get from others? What concrete help can the EU provide to Finland? What kind of help are we talking about here? Soldiers, material? Why does no one have a debate on this subject? Why are we just giving it to others?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u59	Mr President! At least with our colleague, Mr Salolainen, we have talked about this in this Chamber several times today. We in the EU security guarantees 222 and 42.7 state that 'by all possible means', and we have wanted to underline precisely that it must mean that if we want to get all the help we can, then we must also be prepared to do so. And there have been debates that I raised, for example in Sweden, about the impact of these EU security guarantees, and then again a few NATO countries have wanted to feed and support because they have their own Article 5, which gives them a guarantee of security in similar situations. But if we are in a situation where all the countries would actually give only olive oil, then we would probably get only olive oil at a time of need. That is why we must be prepared to participate in these situations and tasks by all means possible when another EU country asks us to do so. And this is what Finland has in fact committed itself to in due course when it signs the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u60	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä, my fellow party brother — not my comrade, but my brother — has a very important concern in himself, but I think that the Minister of Defence has also emphasised very strongly that when he gives, he will. And if one thought of the situation that every country would think only of what it gets, of course no one would get anything, because no one would offer anything to anyone else. But in principle, of course, why Finland is interested in this is, to put it bluntly, what we can get when we give. And as Mr Heinonen pointed out, quite a lot. Although I am indeed a strong EU critic and I will remain so, I can see that here is a positive thing that we can get out of the EU. And when we are a member of the EU, I can see that, of course, all the positive things we can get out of it are also worth taking from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u61	Mr President! As a quick answer to this: For example, I would have liked to have heard from the Minister about whether we have some arrangements, how we could improve our security of supply through the EU in the event of a possible crisis. One argument put forward for NATO membership is that the security of supply in Finland could be guaranteed through it. Does the EU have a similar opportunity? Is there concreteness and performance to guarantee its security of supply? Of course there may be contracts on paper, but are they just paper when there's a problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u62	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u63	Mr President! It is high time that we, too, here in Finland, had woken up to the reality that we had become part of the field of international terrorism, at the latest with the immigration crisis of the previous year. The government proposes that travel for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence should be punishable. This is a small but important moral message to the potential Islamist terrorists who, by pretending to be asylum seekers, have arrived in our country. They will not have the right to travel terrorist acts with the help of Finnish citizenship if they succeed. I warmly support the government's proposal and would like to see similar tightening in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u64	Mr President! Indeed, this certainly goes a long way back to what has happened in recent years, and since last summer we all had a shocking rush to look more closely at these issues. Indeed, I thank the government for having received a government proposal to extend the criminalisation of terrorist offences. The only thing I want from the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs — and I regret that the President is not here, but I hope that he will look at this — is to see widely whether all the activities relating to the terrorist offence are now completely overturned, so that there are no such lanes which, for some reason, remain unpunished. Traveling for terrorism now becomes a criminal offence and financial regulations are expanding, but one of the things I myself have been thinking about and what we have been thinking about in our group is whether or not membership of a terrorist group has now been criminalised. I tried to read this chapter on 34a criminal law, and I certainly did not get convinced. There was leadership of a terrorist group that was separately criminalised and perhaps some forms of conduct, and it already required planning in order to be punishable. Then I looked at Chapter 17 of the Penal Code on offences against public order, and there is this involvement in an organised criminal group, but since terrorist offences have their own number, it has clearly been the intention of the legislator and in that order that terrorist offences are laid down in their own chapter, so I would assume that these provisions do not necessarily apply to them. I do not know now — I would ask the Committee on Legal Affairs to look into the fact that there will be no gaps, so that, for example, if someone now announces that I belong to the Father, which is often regarded as a terrorist organisation, whether it is criminalised or whether it is all right that it should be reported here. I would like it to be seen that there are no blind spots for these serious crimes now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u65	Mr President! With reference to the first speech, I would hope that this government proposal will not be very much confused with the question of asylum seekers, because, in principle, these people will run away and not cause it to happen here in Finland. But as far as this proposal is concerned, the brutality of terrorism has also brought us Finns closer and closer to us and has caused concern and insecurity to many of us Finns, and so all efforts to eradicate terrorism are good. I think it is good that the government is bringing this proposal to Parliament, which is a response to the UN resolution aimed at combating the threat posed by people coming abroad for the purpose of travelling or promoting terrorist offences. That is why I think it is good that, when it is verifiable that a restriction on a person's travel could have an impact, and this would be criminalised by law to the public, it would be important to know that new means are being put in place. Security and a sense of security are one of the most important elements of the future, and we will certainly deal carefully with this in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u66	Mr President! Last autumn I took the view that this asylum system could be used by terrorists, and that is what has happened. In this proposal, travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence is proposed to be punishable and the attempt to commit a travel offence should also be punished. This is a good show. But it should be considered in the future if we could also impose a penalty on being part of a terrorist group, because the purpose of being part of a terrorist group is to promote terrorism and it is unacceptable and we need more tools for this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u67	Mr President! Yes, you must be surprised and ask Mr Huhtasaari what he refers to when he says that asylum seekers who have come to Finland have been promoting terrorism in some way in Finland. As I said earlier, I would like to see this debate on the government's proposal not very strongly linked to the proportion of people who run away from need but as a separate measure to eradicate the activities of criminal terrorists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u68	Mr President! Just when you read the papers, for example, in Paris the three perpetrators of this terrorism had visited Syria, and people have also been arrested in Germany. And when we know that these asylum seekers pass through dozens of safe countries there quite freely — but fortunately, at this stage, some countries have at least started to close their borders more than others — then this is where Finland is at risk, if terrorist organisations have rightly said out loud in the press that we are going to send these terrorists along. The supo has also said that such persons will certainly come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u69	Mr President! In addition to what Mr Huhtasaari said: Unfortunately, Mr Kymäläinen, we must, in the light of the facts, talk about terrorism when we talk about asylum seekers. A large number of asylum seekers have come to Finland, whose background and identity we do not know, but we know that according to official data, hundreds of people with terrorist organisations have come here among asylum seekers. According to the studies, Finnish asylum seekers are also the most radicalized in relation to their number throughout Europe, calculated on the basis of how many go back to their countries of origin to fight.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u70	And on the list of speakers, Mr Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u71	Mr President! This government proposal proposes that travel for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence should be punishable and that the attempt to commit a travel offence should also be presented as a criminal offence. In addition, the financing of a travel crime would be punished as financing terrorism. This legislative reform, prepared by the Ministry of Justice under the leadership of Minister Lindström, is a sensible and welcome measure in the fight against terrorism, especially at a time when the threat of terrorism has increased both in us and elsewhere in the world. Mr President! In general, so far Finland has not made the best possible provision for terrorism or its fight against terrorism. Among other things, a terrorist scientist named Leena Malkki from the University of Helsinki has said this. According to him, Finland's resources in the fight against terrorism are small, not only for the protection police, but also for the wider public. Malkki has even wondered that Finnish politicians, with the exception of the Finns, have had surprisingly little interest in this increasingly topical and important issue. According to the Protection Police, there are about 300 people in Finland who may be associated with terrorism. Their activities have mainly been foreign-oriented, but even Finland recruits fighters and our country is not safe from terrorism either. Unfortunately, the incomplete management of the immigration crisis last autumn has not at all improved Finland's internal security or reduced the threat of terrorism against Finland, despite the opposing claims made by Mr Kymäläinen. In May, some 2500 asylum seekers were reported in lost reception centres during this and last year. Undoubtedly, even these partially undocumented or false identity papers have further increased the threat of terrorist acts, and I urge the government to take prompt steps to set up return centres. In addition, I consider the motion made by Mrs Mere to be sensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u72	Mr President! There is no reason to be naive in this regard either, in that sense I agree with the basic Finns who have spoken in this Chamber. The flow of refugees in Europe has been proven to be exploited in terrorist acts, both in Paris and in Brussels. But, of course, this is not just about the people accompanying the flow of refugees. Some of them, particularly in Paris and Brussels, had registered as refugees at certain points and used the flow with them to their advantage. So in that sense it is quite justified. But we must remember that this legislation also applies to the native Finns. Proselytes from Finland have joined Daesh’s ranks, and this also applies to them. This is not aimed in any way at any ethnic group or any particular nationality, but at the fact that travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence is punishable. In other words, this does not in any way target any ethnic group, no nationality, no refugees. This affects all those who act in this way. After all, in Finland, legislation has been reformed in a few steps. I think it was the last term of government when training and financing terrorism were made a crime. At the time, I myself made a legislative initiative to criminalise membership of a terrorist organisation. It did not progress during the last term, it expired in the last election, and I renewed that presentation last year, in 2015, in Parliament, Act 47/2015 in the Parliament. In this regard, I propose a new Article 4d on terrorist offences in Chapter 34a, Being a member of a terrorist group: "He who is a member of a terrorist group must be sentenced to at least four months and no more than eight years of imprisonment for being a member of a terrorist group. The definition of a terrorist group is given in Section 6. Any person convicted of belonging to a terrorist group shall also be convicted of committing a criminal offence within the meaning of Article 1 or of an undertaking punishable by such a crime or of a criminal offence within the meaning of Article 2." This is the initiative I have tabled last year for these Parliaments, and I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will take it on board alongside this government's proposal, which will leave the matter open in a fine manner, as Mr Meri has pointed out here. In other words, although this has been partly reported that membership of a terrorist organisation is being criminalised, it is quite clearly not going to make it through this, and that is why we in the Committee on Legal Affairs should go through this. For example, there is one point here that says that making, planning, preparing or participating in a terrorist act and so on. There are references to this, but it is not quite clear, and that is why I think it is necessary for the Committee on Legal Affairs to take up and go through this legislative initiative which I have tabled in depth in connection with this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u73	Madam President! This government proposal is very welcome. The Government's Internal Security Report clearly states that the threat of terrorism has increased in Finland as well. Of course it is smaller than in many other European countries, but this jihadist activity, according to the Finnish police, is already active here. I asked a written question a few months ago about stepping up anti-Islamist activities, and the answer given by Home Secretary Orpo states, among other things, that — well, Orpo does not state that, at the request of the Finns of Finland, but in practice at the request of the Finns of Finland, it will be possible for the law to invalidate Finnish citizenship from the dual citizens involved in terrorist activities. This review of the law amendment will start in the autumn. Of course, I find it somewhat problematic that we currently have very narrow frameworks on how to act on this issue. Under the Constitution, citizenship cannot be removed from a person who would become stateless. This is how many other EU countries are already operating, but we really have a constitution here that imposes the constraints that are problematic in a situation such as this in which we are dealing with international terrorism. My second point, which I would like to emphasise in addition to this proposal, is that, in our current legislation, the ban on the entry of foreign extremist Islamic radical preachers is possible under Article 156 of the Aliens Act. However, it has not been used much. The protection police, for example, have a margin of discretion, but it has not been used much, and that is what I am wondering and still wondering. Above all, it is now important, under the pressure of the media and the opposition, that the government remains firm and implements all the guidelines of the asylum policy action programme. That is what the Finns of Finland require from other government parties, and I see that this matter raised by Mr Heinonen, this being part of a terrorist group, is part of that package.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u74	Madam President! Terrorism is a crime against humanity. Under human rights treaties, states have a duty to protect people's right to life and personal security and thus also to protect people from terrorism. Similarly, human rights agreements bind states when they act against terrorism. For example, according to the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, respect for and protection of human rights and the rule of law are central to the fight against terrorism. The UN Special Rapporteur on the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in the fight against terrorism has stated that full respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism is best practice, because it is not only a duty of the States but also has proven to be effective in the fight against terrorism. The impact of the new crimes that may be imposed now must therefore be assessed extensively in the light of Finland's binding international obligations: human rights treaties, humanitarian law and refugee law. It is important that criminal offences are limited as much as possible, and it would be useful to make a clear statement on the situation in which Chapter 34a of the Criminal Code, which provides for terrorist offences, would apply international humanitarian law and possibly Chapter 11 of the Criminal Code on criminal liability, which provides for war crimes and crimes against humanity. In particular, the secret coercive measures now being put forward are extremely sensitive to human rights and must be defined with sufficient precision. In addition to criminalisation, it would be essential to develop other policies to prevent radicalisation and terrorist violence. We know that asylum seekers arriving here alone under the age of minors are at risk, and that is why integration is extremely important for them and family reunification must not be made more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u75	Madam President! The UN resolution is rarely so strict as to have a direct impact on national legislation, but here we are in a situation where the UN resolution is the fight against terrorism. And as has already been said here, a number of different legislative changes have already been made so that efforts can be made to combat terrorism, and in particular it has been linked to this training but also to funding, which will also be subject to further regulations here too. However, we have a few questions here, and I hope that the Administrative Committee — in which I am allowed to give opinions — but also the Committee on Legal Affairs will then take into account and carefully define how this planning should be verified when it can be thought that it fulfils the conditions of this criminal law that planning is taking place. The second question is, if people have acquaintances all over the world and if a Finnish goes somewhere else, how are these connections taken into account there, or whether there is doubt if I go to a country where there may be more terrorist threats, that I can then be classified as a suspicious person. How does travel, information — because we know at the moment that when it comes to air travel, we talk to the EU all the time about whether it is used by the authorities, but if you go from there to Europe, even if you go to Tallinn on a boat, no one really knows where that person has travelled from there. So I think this is one question mark there, that how on earth can it be verified that man has gone there? Visitors are the third big question mark, i.e. if and when this does not concern the people who are domiciled in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u76	Madam President! In this debate, jihadists were brought up as a background for terrorist organisations. However, it must be borne in mind that this legislation is in no way confined to jihadists, but that the European Union has listed less than 50 — whether 48 — different terrorist organisations in the world, the United States more than 40 terrorist organisations, Australia has its own list of terrorist organisations, and there are terrorist organisations from communism to the far right and everything in the middle. This legislation does not take a position on what is behind its terrorist activities. In that sense, we should not give the impression that we are now dealing solely with Daesh or Al-Qaeda, for example, or with actors of this type. Let us address them, but let us address all these other about 50 terrorist organisations as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u77	Madam President! I would like to say once again that this government proposal is good and necessary. It is certainly also necessary to have a critical debate on immigration or on the possibility that the influx of immigrants has also been accompanied by those who have so-called bad intentions when they come here, and it is important that we look for ways to do so. However, I would like this debate not to be marked by all asylum seekers, some of whom genuinely escape. This seemed to have been overlooked by the interlocutors in this debate. It is certainly a delicious subject for the Finns of Finland when it comes to asylum seekers or immigrants, but we would like to keep our pants on and on this supported government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u78	Mr President! I would say to Mr Kymäläinen, as I think it has already been said here today, that there is no point in being naive. I would also like to thank Mr Elo for his observation that Parliament must remain firm and fully transpose the immigration and asylum policy measures already agreed by the government, despite the loud opposition and the media which have been on the table in recent days. It is good for all of us legislators to bear in mind that in the tripartite doctrine of power, the national parliament, in Finland, is the first state power and the media is only the fourth. Parliament must therefore exercise its powers, and this also applies to legislation on immigration. In Finland, power belongs to the people who have chosen the country's decision-makers in the elections to do their best.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u79	Madam President! To the delegates, I would say that there is nothing wrong with the blue eyes, and I have been doing it for 40 years. But because I am not naive, I support this government proposal. It is important to limit the possibilities of the perpetrators of terrorism. As I said earlier, it is certainly true that we need a critical debate, we need to seek out the means to reduce terrorism. But I do not want asylum seekers to be branded in full here, because most of those people have come here to escape and come here to seek refuge, and quite on the subject. So these two things should be kept separate, and even with blue eyes one can look critically at the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u80	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u81	Madam President! This performance is one example of how we try to make the lives of artists easier in this environment, where artists' livelihoods are indeed made up of many different sources: employment relationships, entrepreneurship and also the sale of their own art. This government proposal concerns grant artists, which means that the grant recipient would then be more encouraging to accept a short-term employment relationship. This is a small bill, but it makes it very clear that artists have the right to receive a contract of employment. It is precisely these features which are listed in this draft law that can then be used as grounds for postponing the start of the grant period and then suspending the grant period. This is a very good draft law and that is what we will be discussing in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u82	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u83	Madam Speaker! The Government's proposal for the Nairobi Convention is easy to support in principle, since the purpose of the agreement is to ensure the swift and effective removal of the hazardous wreck in the event of a water accident and to compensate for the costs involved. Finland’s territorial waters, which this would apply to, are low and sensitive to potential environmental problems caused by accidents. It is also a good thing that the registered owner of a ship should be obliged to declare his liability under the Convention when the gross tonnage of the vessel is high enough. However, it must be ensured that Finns are not subject here to obligations that other people operating here would not fulfil. I believe that we will have a good report on these issues in the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u84	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u85	Madam President! This bill provides for a limitation of significant social and health care investments by municipalities and joint municipal authorities for a fixed period of two and a half years. In practice, therefore, the deadline is that, when preparing for social welfare reform on a regional basis, we do not want municipalities and joint municipal authorities to start competing with investments and then to bind the hands of future self-government regions to them, but to be able to build those services as evenly as possible. Of course, the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal states that municipalities and joint municipal boards have made some decisions in recent years to improve their own service structure, as is inherently the case, but it is unfortunate that an increasing number of municipalities have started outsourcing their own services. This, at least on the basis of my own reasoning, is because we are not satisfied with the current social and health services. There are municipalities that have separated themselves from co-operation areas that have separated themselves from joint municipal authorities and outsourced their own primary health care services and have, in fact, received better services according to satisfaction surveys. However, from the point of view of the whole picture, it cannot be hoped that this outsourcing will gradually undermine the whole of our basic health and social care system, so we really need to tackle this social reform, and everyone will certainly agree that we hope that it will finally progress. Of course, these long-term outsourcings have been accompanied by the question that, now that we are moving to a regional actor, how will these earlier agreements then be transferred to the province? And even with this law, they'll move on. The province is negotiating what will be done with these agreements. Very long options for decades could no longer come after this law. But there are also concerns about this law, which the municipalities in particular have raised. After all, it is quite a big entry from the level of legislation to come to the municipality's own property and say that you are not allowed to invest, and I am sure that this will be carefully discussed in committee. The explanatory text highlighted the fact that such restrictions have previously been imposed in the 1970s. Well, I'm sure if you think about it through different parts of the country, then I can understand that somewhere where there are several health centres within an hour's drive, it's natural to do that division of work, but again in other areas of long distances, in northern or eastern Finland, where there may not be a health centre within one hour, the creation of a new social welfare system must be such that all the municipalities and all the people in those municipalities feel that their basic social and health services will continue to be provided. Even if the health center turns its name into a welfare center, I have nothing against it. The health centres will certainly have to think about their own activities and the division of labour within the province, but above all that welfare-oriented and strengthening of prevention will be emphasised in this social welfare reform, and it cannot be done in such a way that only those peripheral areas or small units will be tried to export services, because nevertheless the large cash flows, the large items of expenditure, are there in large units. I therefore understand the ban on investment in central hospitals linked to the restriction of this law. But the sum summarum, it is true that many of our services in the social services and health care services need to be corrected quickly, because they have been made in the turn of the 60s to 70s and are thus reaching their basic repair age and briskly. I therefore hope that, as part of the social welfare reform, the welfare services will also be considered: how to transform the health centre into a well-being centre, how to secure the services in the whole province, how to develop electronic, mobile services on wheels. And it is also important that this law has the opportunity to continue to make legitimate investments even in this exceptional period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u86	Mr President! Yes, state government has previously regulated the right of municipalities to organise a social welfare service, this is not in itself a new issue. It has been done at least as long as the municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants were deprived of their independent right to organise social and health care services through the Best project. Now we are basically in the logical continuum of that path. It has emerged that some municipalities or joint municipal authorities have shown a particular willingness to invest while this social and health solution is still in progress, and it inevitably comes to mind a suspicion or the idea that large investments are aimed at guiding or even forcing decision-making on the solution. It is a well-known fact that the mass of assets is a fairly large constitutional problem in the field of social solutions and that their transition without money is impossible or very problematic, while the money that would transfer them is so large that there is no realistic prospect of transferring such money in the face of debt. So this is the kind of risk there is. I would like municipal decision-makers throughout the country to be patient and responsible in these matters, but in case there is no patience and responsibility, the law may also be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u87	Mr President! The aims of this bill are good. The aim of the law is to ensure that the provinces are not tied up for a long time before the reform of social welfare and health care to new obligations or construction projects. This will ensure that the regions have the opportunity to organise services on an equal basis and in a manner appropriate to the whole. The aim is to secure the objectives of the social welfare reform to achieve cost savings and a regionally appropriate service network where the services are integrated customer-centred. I therefore warmly support this bill and, in particular, its objectives. Unfortunately, however, the government's other reform plans for social welfare and health care are taking this in a completely different direction. For example, the main objectives of the reform of social welfare and health care, i.e. the integration and equality of services, cannot be realised in the Government's preliminary approach to freedom of choice. I therefore hope that the government will genuinely listen to the experts, who have now been stressed by quite a large number of people, that the implementation of regional reform, financial reform, freedom of choice and compulsory companyisation at one time is a great risk and a leap into the unknown. First, a sound basis should be built for the provision of services, then a financial reform should be carried out, and then a diversification of the production structure of services should be undertaken and not all of these should be carried out at once.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u88	Madam President! First of all, I would like to put this parliamentary procedure into practice. This law has been known, the fact that this sort of thing is planned and coming up, and despite today we are in a situation that both the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Administrative Committee have had to deal with this law before it has been in a referral debate. And we even read on the Administrative Committee's list that the expert hearing will be closed and a preparatory debate will be held. I think this is rather strange, and I know that in these years we have used the preliminary procedure in the past, but then it has been agreed together. It has been agreed that before the referral debate takes place on the same day, the committee will be able to begin its deliberations. But today it has been done in such a way that it has also been closed before it is in the referral debate. I do not think this is a very good way of working, although I understand that it is urgent, because this is to come into force as quickly as possible and, of course, it is coming to a summer break, but I hope that the government will first of all learn from this and not put representatives in an unreasonable position. A few moments ago, someone was hoping that the committees would take these issues into account: they will not, because this is no longer being discussed, On the other hand, social and health care legislation is awaited, and, let's see now, it was supposed to come a little before the leaf comes into the tree, but now it may be that a little before the leaf falls out of the tree, it might be here. There is such a question mark in this combination that we are now firmly in the process of making restrictive legislation for the war that may come into force in 19 C.E. At the moment, therefore, municipal investment is limited to a limit of EUR 5 million and, according to the report, the most important task is to limit the basic improvements and buildings in health centres. What if it doesn't work out on the schedule or the model that we've been planning so far? As far as I am concerned, I hope that this will not be achieved by the form of compulsory companyisation and by the broad freedom of choice that divides people into unequal positions, but it may be that there are constitutional points, as in the previous time, or something else to which it is subject, and so this is the way in which investment is particularly constrained. Municipalities have been quite critical, and as a municipal decision-maker I might also think that once we have the information, the preliminary information, that all the properties of municipalities and joint municipal boards will not be transferred to potential future provinces, the responsible decision-makers will think about these projects again and will not be planning any new projects now. But this is something that the government and the government clearly do not trust, and now they want to be forced to do. The problem is also that quite a few projects have been planned quite a long way: millions of euros of money have been spent on them and even commitments have been made. And I realized today that the limit is a contract of works, i.e. all the costs before the contract and all the commitments before the contract will be paid for by the municipalities if and when the government decides not to build these projects. There is also the problem of possible breach of contract if different commitments and agreements have been made with different parties — with private parties or with other municipalities or with others. The government will then be glad to pay them there. It may be that very good projects are being rejected here, and it may be that very hasty decisions have been taken on the one hand. In panic, the municipalities have pressed the button, put the works forward, and have not left time for that consideration because it has been known that this kind of law comes. On the other hand, it is known that it may be that this will completely stop municipal investment. And it may be that in a case where it is a joint property, for example, where there are health care services — such as maternity clinic services, school health services and so on — and the school, the renovation or construction of the entire school is slowing down. It may be that I'm painting a little bit of a black picture, but we didn't have time to go through these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u89	Madam President! The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that the social welfare reform starts off on a clean table. Indeed, it is very feared that before 2019 many municipalities will seek to ensure that there are services in their own municipality after 2019, from which time the provinces will decide where and how social and health care services will be organised. This is why, of course, municipalities are seeking to improve the services of their residents by, among other things, building or concluding long-term agreements with private operators on the organisation of social and health services: trust that the province will then manage these new buildings by introducing them and that the province will also keep these previously concluded agreements concluded by the municipality. Mr President! I will address this government bill in just a few parts, and the first is the EUR 5 million limit. Its smaller investments can be made by municipalities even after the entry into force of this Act before 2019. For example, according to THL’s statement, such a limit of EUR 5 million is too low, but, on the other hand, if we are thinking of small municipalities, 4 million will already build a major health centre or a service house or something like that. On the other hand, in a large municipality, this 5 million is not really enough for anything. It will help to repair some of the doors and windows of a large health care unit. The second limit is 50% of the cost of social services. Such agreements could be concluded by municipalities if this share of the cost of social services was less than 50%. This also treats different municipalities differently. If a big city enters into an outsourcing agreement by 50% of its own social costs, it may be the binding of hundreds of millions of dollars on that contract. I myself thought, as Mr Paatero said today, that it would be good if this type of border could be linked in some way to the volume used by the municipality in question for social welfare and health care. For example, in the case of large cities, this 50% would be lower, while in a small municipality this could well be 50%, and in these investments the limit of 5 million could be reduced for small municipalities. Of course, Mr President, it is possible that there will be an exemption for investment, and I myself also thought that this exemption will be granted by the Government on a proposal from THL or after receiving the opinion from THL. I myself thought it would be better if, for example, the pronunciation had its own hospital district, which really knows what the needs of the municipality really are, and the authorisation would be based on this. It is also possible to make investments if, for example, there are health and safety criteria, such as the indoor air problem or this type of problem. The aim of this bill is to ensure that municipalities are treated fairly. If some municipalities are now able to make investments or long-term contracts and thus be able to guarantee services to their own residents different from those in which such agreements or investments have not been made without this law, it is unfair. In the future, too, when there are social regions, all residents would contribute to paying for these things. In that sense, this proposal for a law is in order that justice should at least be sought. President! Then I would like to correct Mr Paatero's statement that this is no longer being discussed. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health will hear more experts tomorrow and the day after, and this will be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u90	Mr President! Yes, this government proposal seems to have been prepared very busy and wanted through quickly. Mr Paatero raised the issue of municipal self-government very well, and I personally see it as a matter of fact that, with such a strong focus on municipal investment, it restricts local decision-making and self-government. I also drew attention to the fact that these investments of more than 5 million people should be subject to an application for an exemption, and THL has been defined as a supervisory authority. In that sense, too, I have a little thought about this, including municipal self-government, also from the point of view of how THL, as a supervisory authority, can decide on these matters. I would also like to draw attention to these total outsourcings that have been carried out in so many municipalities in Finland. As has been pointed out above, these services have been secured by small municipalities in particular, and they have agreed on very long contracts, up to 10 years. These often have a slight lack of protection against dismissal, as the municipality has been informed that all contracts will be transferred to the provinces. However, I would like to see the government take action to extend this procedure of protection against dismissal to these agreements in the future, even in the framework of this law. However, I hope that this will not freeze the development of municipal social and health services. Especially when you think about our health centre network, I find it extremely worrying if you freeze it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u91	Mr President! I am really confused and sorry about this procedural description of the bill that Mr Paatero has presented, when I imagined that I was having a referral debate here and now I hear that this debate is at least partly pointless. In my opinion, this is an understatement of legislative work and even the work of a Member of Parliament. You can really ask why we're having this referral conversation now. As I said before, I personally understand the aims and purpose of this bill quite well. That is all well-founded, but I also understand Mr Paatero and others' critical views on this draft law, and these should now be discussed in depth in the committee. Although Mr Keränen said that the matter will continue there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I wonder, however, how, with this timetable, there will be a thorough discussion of this issue and a broad-based reflection as to what the consequences will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u92	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u93	Mr President! In many respects this government proposal represents an improvement in the regulation of posted workers. However, there will be serious shortcomings which led the SDP to take a parallel legislative initiative and a clause. We proposed corrections to the protection and legal protection of posted workers in the construction sector and to increase the non-compliance fees specified in this law to reflect the non-compliance fees provided for in the Ordering Liability Act. Even if they were raised, they would be quite low at EU level. In the Act on Customer Liability, default payments amount to between EUR 2000 and EUR 20000, but in this bill they would only be between EUR 1000 and EUR 10000, and everyone understands that such small default payments do not have a sufficiently guiding effect. We also proposed legislation to ensure that the law also applies to the work of the road transport sector. The government's proposal contains a number of restrictions on the duration of the posted worker's work, which in practice mean that the road transport sector is largely excluded from this regulation. In the road transport sector, due to the time constraints in the draft law, controls cannot be properly carried out. In practice, this means real difficulties for the Finnish transport industry and, at its worst, leads to a decline in the transport sector and, at the same time, to an increase in unemployment. Both transport workers and employers have agreed on this. These are the reasons why I propose two statements. The first statement would read as follows: 'In adopting the draft law, Parliament requires that the distinction between this law and the law on subscriber liability should be rapidly changed to the same content and increased in order to have sufficient steering effect in accordance with the spirit of the law.' And then another proposal for a statement, which would read as follows: "The Government will require the Council of State to follow the post-law — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u94	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to support the proposal made by Mr Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen (1) and 2). With regard to this first proposal for a statement, with regard to these sanctions, I think it is good that these sanctions should be brought into line with this responsibility for the subscriber. However, I would like to point out that these sanctions are very small in this government proposal, because if we compare the likes of Germany, for example, there are 30,000 and up to 0.5 million, that is to say, we are talking about very different categories of issues. Then there is this second proposal for a statement. I would like Parliament to be able to agree with this, because in the transport sector both the workers and the employers have been concerned about this particular flagging out of the road transport sector by means of these government proposals. We also wanted to make it clear in this motion that the government would monitor the effects of the entry into force of this law, and if it actually leads to what we and the Transport Workers' and Employers' Association are concerned about, that is to say, this flagging out of jobs, then the government would also be prepared to take measures to correct this bill according to our proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u95	Madam President! As far as this government's proposal is concerned, I cannot help but wonder why the government wants to totally disengage the road transport sector from Finland. Why is the competitive situation in this sector deliberately shaken? Before the elections, representatives of the Government Party spoke out in favour of domestic work. Many were quick to perform in the industry’s tricks and truck marches on behalf of the industry. I am sorry, on behalf of the workers and employers in the sector, for the entrepreneurs, for the turnaround that we are witnessing here today. This government proposal on posted workers sends the world the wrong signal from Finland. Yes, you can come to work in Finland, but fair working conditions must be respected. Legislation must contribute to this. The government proposal is poorly prepared. It is not even in the case of the default fee and the maximum amount of the fine in the synchronized with the Ordering Liability Act. That is why the Social Democrats' parallel initiative must be supported, as well as the Social Democrats in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, in their protest against the increase in the maximum amount of the levy and the fine in relation to the law on subscriber liability. Clearly, not all creativity may have been used yet. The flexibility available for the application of the current freight transport directive should first be exploited and the directive on the implementation of posted workers should not be adopted in the form proposed by the government. Their combined effect will be catastrophic for the Finnish road transport sector. The objections and the statements that have already been made here by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen are worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u96	Mr President! As the former Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, I cannot and cannot refrain from taking part in the debate. However, I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, in particular the Social Democrats, who, in my opinion, have taken up the real problems in an up-and-coming and quite correct manner. For example, each of us understands that, when these non-compliance and fines fall several times below what they are in Germany, for example, they will of course have a weaker effect. The second point, which I am also surprised about — and I am glad that it has now been tackled as hard as possible in this House — relates to road transport and the associated increased risk of cheap labour. It is also a problem from the point of view that has not been raised, but my life experience says that cheap labour also involves a security risk on the roads. When it comes to the temptation to take cheap labour into transport, the skills and skills of such workers are not what it should have on its roads, not to mention that the logic of fair working conditions is, of course, the most important thing here too. A very big thank you to the Socialist Members of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u97	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u98	Mr President! There is a government proposal for a law on the production area of high-quality seed potatoes. The area of production of high quality seed potatoes may be granted only to areas or countries which are not present or have been able to dispose of dangerous potato pests. According to the Commission's decision, the production area in Finland comprises regions of the municipalities of Tyrnava and Liminka, and in addition there are four countries in Europe — Ireland, Portugal, Germany and England. When you’ve been shopping, especially since the beginning of summer everyone wants to have those delicious new potatoes, there are many. It is therefore important that the production of a good quality potato can be secured in our country. From the Liminka and Tyrnäva region, there are over 5% of the country’s food potatoes, and there the food potato farms are higher than the country’s average. The areas concerned shall be considered to be clean of dangerous plant pests, including Y virus, Maltocar virus and basal rot. Food potato producers in the region will have to buy a new seed of at least category E each year and will incur additional costs compared to potato producers in the rest of the country. We remember that since 2011, national aid for potato production has no longer been paid and the Food Safety Agency is the supervisory authority. Mr President! In short, the proposal must be supported in order to ensure a high quality domestic seed potato.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u99	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u100	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In the present case, this is part of a large package, the so-called vocational training reform, which is one of the government's leading projects. In this context, this part of professional reform means a relatively small but nevertheless important part of it. It is about to change the maximum number of authorisations and then evaluates the status and situation of vocational training and organisers. In practice, therefore, it is a question of those providers of vocational education and training who have repeatedly had less than the number laid down in the permit to organise, then going through it. The Government’s aim and idea is that in this context these numbers of students can then be reduced, reduced to those who have missed these starting points for one reason or another. Well, of course, the committee was of course unanimous that, if these are to be taken up, they should be considered on a case-by-case basis, and we said that the administrative law already requires it, because some of the organisers — I might think, for example, that folk colleges — may have some real reasons for choosing for a year, for two fewer students and for another year more. This may be a clumsy example, but it is understandable and appropriate. In the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the subject, it became clear that, when this affects the organisers of vocational education and training to a very large extent, there are also those who have the role of vocational education and training in very narrow educational structures and qualifications. Many genuinely felt the concern that this should now be taken into account in the interests and needs of such regional access and accessibility, and that the interests and needs of professions with relatively small numbers of students should also be taken into account. In this context, we then decided to vote in committee, and this motion for a statement, which was scarcely tabled in time, was lost in committee, but we consider this regional availability and accessibility and these specific areas to be of such importance in principle that we want this statement to be made. However, on the report of our committee, I would like to say a very important point relating to this professional reform. The committee unanimously states: "The committee continues to find it extremely worrying that budget cuts will take place in 2017 but that training providers will only be offered new instruments from the beginning of 2018 to implement cuts." So, in plain language, next year the money will be taken away and then the next year the legislation will come. This has caused a very serious deterioration in the field of vocational education and training, and there will certainly be different types of damage. And then, Mr President, this statement: 'The Commission requires that, in the review of the organisation permits referred to in the Government's proposal, due account be taken of the regional and sectoral accessibility of training opportunities and the real labour needs of the regions. The reform must not threaten the number of students required for the continuity of activities in small industries, nor should it undermine the activities of the basic industries of industry."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u101	Mr President! The reform legislation on vocational education and training is on the way, and therefore the content of this government proposal could have been included in that reform package — well, it does not matter that things are imported in this way at a time, but could have been better imported as a whole. In any event, it is very important that the review of the organisation figures, which is linked to this government proposal, takes account of the regional and sectoral accessibility and the need for training opportunities in such a way that the reform does not threaten the continuity of activities in small sectors and, on the other hand, does not undermine the needs of working life. I therefore support the statement made by Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-07-ps-65.u102	A 16th item of order will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 12/2016 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 3 June 2016.
