ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u2	First question, Mr Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u3	Madam President! The most important news of the week was that after a long twist, the social partners were able to submit a draft agreement to which the government is also largely committed. The precondition for this solution was that the government made room by suspending the drafting of compulsory laws and abandoning those targets, which were up to 5% wage cuts, and, above all, the local agreement was negotiated by the social partners. At the same time, now that it is good to congratulate the government, it must also be said that the agreement is quite burdensome for employees. There's a lot of pretty tough procedures out there. My question and concern now lies in the government's line of withdrawal of additional cuts and reductions in income tax, which were quite a large and significant part of this agreement. The agreement states that it will replace the measures prepared by the government, the'requirements', and, at the same time, the labour market organisations... [President MariaLohela: It's already time for a question, clock ticking. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u6	Mr President! Firstly, the fact that after ten and a half months of practice such an agreement is in place, I am extremely pleased, and thank you to the social partners. Thank you also in this Chamber to the individual parliamentarians who have been involved in different roles in the background that this was finally born. This is an historic solution, a major leap in competitiveness, which it has the objective of achieving, and the employment-creating effects of this are, according to the social partners themselves, up to 45,000 new jobs. The Ministry of Finance has assessed slightly more carefully: 35,000 jobs. This section of the competitiveness package, the result of the negotiations, will replace, first and foremost, the competition law package prepared by the government itself, and that is something we are abandoning. Then, in addition to that, this government program...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u7	The time has come for the Prime Minister. This is an important subject, but the one-minute speeches concern everyone in Question Time. — Then I would ask those representatives to come forward and ask for further questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u8	Madam Speaker! In the field of news coverage, among other things: The chief economist of the cooperative bank has also expressed concern about this development of national purchasing power and its negative impact on the country's economy if this proposal goes through without, among other things, such tax reductions. The export industry is probably getting a little improvement on this, but the purchasing power is what we are now concerned about, while the Finnish economy is currently relying on that domestic purchasing power. And now, in these performances, especially the low-paid and often also the women's sectors are those who pay quite a large part of this package. The daily lives of families have already been tested in the previous budget debate, and now my question is: can you promise, Prime Minister, that there will be no further cuts in the next spending limits debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u9	Mr President! First of all, in the spending limits debate, we follow the government programme as we do the government programme. Every government party has committed itself to a $4 billion cut. Then we will have EUR 2 billion in action to mobilise growth, to mobilise employment, and then we will have EUR 4 billion in reform, which will then be aimed at longer-term reforms and also at economic savings. That is what we are committed to. I have not answered the last part of the previous question, and I will use the rest of it, which is, of course, our starting point, as well, that this second part of this agreement should be implemented, that is, that the government does not have to resort to this additional savings package and can even be implemented. What the whole package and the outcome of this package will be evaluated together in June when we see what these union agreements will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u10	Mr President! Agreement is always a better option than dictation, and it is therefore good that the social partners have come up with a joint proposal on competitiveness measures. However, we must recognise that, especially in the public sector, low-paid workers bear disproportionate responsibility for competitiveness measures. I received a message from an employee in the municipal sector that it is a real shame that the government gentlemen at the press conference were mocking each other and doing fist greetings to each other when the low-paid are disciplined and deprived of purchasing power and extended working hours. There is already a situation in many places where work is being done at the extreme limits of endurance. It is now a matter of great humility on the part of all the parties involved. There is absolutely no reason for ministers to ventilate. What does the government say to the sender of the message and to the numerous employees in the municipal sector who have really upset themselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u11	Minister Lindström first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u12	Madam President! At least I have not wavered at the fact that you have to make painful decisions, and certainly not that you have to deal with these people's interests, you have to go to their wallets. I was concerned about one thing, about making a deal, and another thing, about winning the unemployed here. That's what I was so worried about. If, in the view of the social partners, there are also 35 000 to 45,000 jobs to come, is that not a place of delight then? In my opinion, this is an incomprehensible negativity: once an agreement is reached with painful points, it is always turned negative. I can't understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u13	Then Prime Minister Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u14	Mr President! Just as Minister Lindström said: we are extremely pleased that there is now a strong basis for the creation of 35 000, up to 45 000 new jobs. This is a decision which is precisely for the unemployed, who are not on the table to decide, and we still have a lot of work to do to achieve that total of 110,000 new jobs. It requires a lot of decisions, smaller and larger decisions, but this is the most important package in this area. The pain that employees' organisations have in making this decision is well known and it is very understandable, and I would like to express my humble thanks for it that this kind of understanding of the unemployed has been found in this negotiation process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u15	Madam President! It is, of course, a good thing that a draft agreement has now been drawn up in the labour market. Surely it was that the government gave up this 5% wage reduction target and then put these forced laws on the shelf that created room for manoeuvre. And as we have seen once again: when we give ourselves space to the labour market, there will also be results when we give up these mandatory measures. But it has to be said out loud that the workers are now taking on a very heavy burden. And the fact that these concerns are being raised is no mere negativity. Yes, the concern of these people about their own livelihoods and their daily lives must be taken seriously. Mr President, now that it is unclear whether the government is now giving up these savings, i.e. additional savings on child allowances, student allowances, in addition to what you are already implementing, and the total freezing of employment pension indices for the duration of the government's term of office,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u16	Madam President! Perhaps it is best to read directly from this answer of ours. In other words, the Government notes that the solution that has now been reached provides a good opportunity to refrain from the additional expenditure cuts and tax increases related to income tax which are still not implemented in Annex 2 to the Government Programme. We will look at this package, Mr Lindtman, at two points, the first of which is June this year, and then, as stated in the Government Programme, in the mid-term debate in March 2017. At that point, we will make an overall assessment of whether the objectives of the Government Programme will be fulfilled. There are four sets of things that we are looking at. One is this social agreement. The second is a zero-wage solution for 2017. The third is the future wage model currently being written by the social partners. And the fourth is the effects of local reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u17	Madam President! Mr Stubb, the Minister for Finance, you have all assured us that the overall tax rate will not rise during this parliamentary term. However, the increase in the wage and salary earners' unemployment insurance contributions and the earnings-related pension contribution increases the taxation of employees by about one percentage point during this parliamentary term. This means an increase of more than EUR 400 through taxation and a reduction of EUR 400. I wonder how the government, through its own actions, is now going to safeguard the development of the purchasing power of employees and correct the distortions that have been created, and that, once again, in the agreement reached, the women-dominated sectors of the public sector will be the ones to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u18	Madam President! Am I to understand that Mr Aalto has just referred to the overall tax rate and its tightening? The answer remains that this decision will not result in an increase in the overall tax rate. Our aim is to ensure that labour taxation does not increase either. But we are aware of it, as Mr Lindtman said earlier, that this will weaken our purchasing power in the short term. Now we are looking for solutions to increase the employment rate of 35,000 jobs in this country — it is a good step forward — and as a result, hopefully, we will be able to verify at some point that the objectives of the Government Programme have been achieved, thereby also reducing the tax rate on the labour side. But the overall tax rate will not rise during this reign. That's the government's goal, and it's being held to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u19	Mr President! Just as the Minister of Finance testified, the overall tax rate will not rise by this decision. I also think that the social partners have found a good way of targeting this solution in the employment sector. This is of the greatest benefit to those jobs, employers who employ a lot of people. That burden will be reduced, so I hope that this will lead to new jobs being created, especially in women-dominated sectors. We must bear in mind that we are going to continue to make up for the burden of family leave in this package. This is what you always want to forget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u20	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä and Ministers Stubb and Lindström, you did air this social pact yesterday with a greeting from the man, and your joy will surely join the EK and the partyers, but time will tell us if there is cause for joy for the unemployed. It is true that the agreement will bring stability and predictability to the economy when it comes to it, but you did do this with a great deal of pressure. You threatened employees with forced laws, even more severe cuts to working conditions, threatened pensioners, unemployed people, families with children with additional cuts, forced employees to choose between cholera and malaria, while you gave employers a silver platter for a health spa. As a former head of trust, I do not applaud the extra days of unpaid work; I do not applaud the transfer of employers' tax-related contributions to employees; [President MariaLohela : Prime Minister Sipilä will find ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u23	Mr President! I applaud the fact that a culture of reconciliation was found in Finland and the situation of reconciliation in front of the Finnish unemployed. For that I applaud and am extremely grateful to the employees' organisations for the understanding shown here for the Finnish unemployed, that more and more Finns should participate in the construction of this society at work. And this goal of 110,000 new jobs: hopefully we will share it in this Chamber as a common goal. With this result of the negotiations, this objective took a significant step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u24	Madam President! In the same spirit, Mr Uotila, you use a rather harsh language for a solution aimed at improving Finland's competitiveness, increasing our economy, improving the employment situation, increasing tax revenues and thereby increasing welfare in this country. I believe that every Finn applauds every new workplace. I believe that every Finn applauds the fact that well-being in this country is improving. I believe that this solution, which was created by an agreement, will lead to a new rise in Finland. It is far better to settle than to argue, and that is what we applaud.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u25	Mr President! There is a huge solution here, the many details of which, of course, are spoken to the citizens, but it is also good to pay attention to what this can achieve. In fact, I would ask the Prime Minister to assess the time frame that would allow us to achieve, for example, the competitiveness of Sweden and Germany in unit labour costs. Another point in which I really only need confirmation of my own view: when part of the package to finance this competitiveness is financed by an increase in employees' contributions, it is true that these increases in contributions will not be paid by pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u26	Mr President! I will answer that second question first. Yes, that is the case, these contributions do not come to pensioners and in that way also compensate for the burden between pensioners and employees. As far as competitiveness and unit labour costs are concerned, according to preliminary estimates, we could already catch up with the Swedish unit labour costs with this solution, which is what is being done, that is to say, this first objective would have already been achieved. Even during this parliamentary term, we will have the opportunity to achieve this solution and hopefully in the future with good decisions from now on, Germany already in 2019. This provides an excellent basis for realising these employment figures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u27	Mr President! Indeed, the competitiveness pact between the social partners is a step in the right direction and a much more amicable, even better option than the measures proposed by the government. However, once again, the impact assessment has been forgotten in this eager improvement of competitiveness, which is of great importance in itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u28	Mr President! If we don't find the defendant, the Prime Minister will have to answer. First of all, the impact assessment. As far as I know, labour market organisations have carried out a very careful assessment during this process, and these are now public employment assessments. In this Chamber, too, it has been questioned whether these competitiveness measures will have an impact on employment. Now the social partners themselves estimate their impact to be considerably greater than we have been afraid to assess, so at least this part of it seems to be on a solid footing now, because there is a very broad consensus on it. We will then make a careful assessment of the impact this will have, especially in the low-wage sectors, when the package of agreements is brought to an end. In this context, I think we should appeal now to all the parties involved and also to this Chamber to do everything we can to ensure that everyone accepts this package at hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u29	Irade the Talman! Ledamot Wallin hevisade till flitfällor, incentive traps, och frågade också hur vi kommer att se på den oxheten.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u30	Mr President! This fine result of the negotiations that we now have at the table shows that in society there is now a broad understanding of the fatherland's need and the importance of employment for the future of the welfare of this country. Indeed, the content negotiated by the social partners deserves praise in many ways. The contractual society has now demonstrated its ability to take the decisions required by time. We have been living in an open economy for a long time and now we have come to the point when we really start making the decisions that are required to maintain our well-being in this situation. The employees' own interest organisations have negotiated content, which shows crisis awareness and broad social understanding. Mr. Prime Minister, you have just described the settlement as historic. Economic experts have described it as a social intelligence test. Can you still open the question of how the agreement is to be drawn up in relation to the implementation of the Government Programme and what is the wider social significance of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u31	Mr President! Outside Finland’s borders, there has already been praise for the fact that Finnish society always finds a way to cope in a difficult situation. This shows that there has been a broad consensus in this situation and that difficult decisions have been taken together. I think that this is absolutely the most important value for it. As far as the government programme is concerned, these employment effects, the goal of 110,000 jobs, represent a significant share of the total. It is also making savings on public finances. There we will have an impact of around one billion on the public economy if this package is fully implemented. I believe that this will also have a significant impact on the climate, including the investment climate, in Finland, to move forward from this apathy state and the path to growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u32	Madam President! From here on the right side of the opposition, it is a little difficult to understand the left side of the opposition, which regrets the agreement that has been reached. Yes, this is a place for a little ventilation. Chairman! The proposal of the social partners does not include the government's proposed cuts to sick days or holidays. Instead, the presentation includes a general extension of working time by 24 hours. How the extension of working time was carried out was left to each sector to decide. Such a solution is not optimal for micro and small enterprises. The EK does not represent the whole field, only organised employers are involved. However, the social pact also applies to micro and small enterprises. My question is this: has the government taken account of the situation of small businesses when assessing the solution that has arisen, and how does the government intend to ensure that small entrepreneurs are also listened to in further negotiations and collective agreements?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u33	Mr Laukkanen's question is, of course, very important for small entrepreneurs, and that is why we have agreed on this follow-up in such a way that the development of local reconciliation and employee representation — which go hand in hand, because we really want to build trust in the workplace and in companies — is being taken forward in the context of the legislative road in this Timonen Group, while this is being promoted through collective agreements on the basis of the TES system. In other words, in line with this competitiveness pact, if the SAK Government approves this competitiveness agreement next Monday, the sector-specific TES negotiations will begin, not only on wages but also on local agreements, and in May-June, it will assess what legislation is needed to ensure effective rules for local agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u34	The Prime Minister completes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u35	Mr President! It is exactly as Minister Rehn said. I would like to point out here that I think it is extremely important that these negotiations now take place in the sector and in every sector: some have pekkasdays, some have longer holidays, some have others that can now be applied in this sector. The same application is also suitable for small and micro-enterprises. In other words, I think that this will provide a good basis for the proper distribution of this working time and that the differences in the sector will be well taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u36	Mr President! Prime Minister, you have just said that everyone should act to ensure that the result of the negotiations that has now arisen is respected. After all, it is stated in the second paragraph that labour market organisations, both from the employer and from the employee side, require the government to refrain from these cuts and the government to refrain from tax increases and then to ensure that in some way purchasing power is strengthened. My question now is whether you are committed to these conditions, which are part of the outcome of the negotiations. The second question relates to the conditions for local agreement. After all, the government made the negotiations conditional on being able to agree locally without collective bargaining on wages, working hours and separate allowances. Does this have to happen now in all the collective agreements, in the hundreds of areas of collective agreements, or how will the government assess this in June? This is a rather relevant question when we consider how:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u37	Mr President! Yesterday, with all the labour market leaders, I have gone through the third paragraph of this negotiation, to which you certainly referred, and we understand it in the same way, we know in what order and how to proceed. I don't think there's a problem. The fact that we are now in absolute position to promise something which, however, is a matter of billions of units, does not mean that there is no question of understanding. That depends on the outcome of the negotiations. We know how the result is calculated, and we know that these additional savings and tax increases will be removed first, and then, if there is still room, we will go to that side of the tax cuts. There is a consensus on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u38	Madam President! This local arrangement and the associated entry: We therefore assume that when 17. On February we told us how we see the progress of this local agreement, and then came this draft agreement — it is still a draft because it has not been accepted by everyone — so we decided that in order to make them more ambitious locally in the TES round, such an incentive, or carrot, will be there to try to take this more ambitiously at the government's starting points of 17 February for local reconciliation and the development of the status of staff. So it is the bar that we hope to pursue now in this TES round, in the Federation round.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u39	Mr President! This is, above all, an employment solution: at least 35,000 Finns will be able to work, probably more. It is great that it has been possible to agree on it together, and that is what the hat list is for everyone who has been involved. And let us hope that the approval of this agreement for the sake of the SAK is now very comprehensive. With regard to this local agreement, I would like to say that, first of all, this is the first time that this level of local agreement has made such significant progress. I would like to ask about the related survival clause that is now coming to these TES agreements. Its idea is that when businesses are in a difficult situation and faced with a situation where they may have to resign or lay off, then a local solution could be made to safeguard those jobs. And it would be in the interests of the workers in particular to keep that job there. What do you think of the level of ambition in the TES to tackle this, so that this agreement:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u40	Madam President! Congressman Satonen speaks exactly as it is. That survival clause is precisely where redundancies or layoffs are at risk. We must then look together at what the situation is: not that either side is saying — for example, in this general sense, the fear is that the employer dictates that the situation is now — but that it is seen together. That's the idea, and it's always been the point here that we're doing this together. I could say that, in my opinion, this is in the interests of both employers and workers, that we can move forward on this issue. I find it very difficult to see why this cannot go forward. Yes, as a former worker, I believe that this is also seen as very wise, and this kind of local reconciliation is already being used very much, now this possibility of a different arrangement is being extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u41	Mr President! We welcome the fact that the social pact was established and that agreement was reached. The replacement of the government's tough forced laws by the social pact is a very good thing and the good news of this week. However, we must be unhappy and disappointed that once again low-income women, especially women in the public sector, were in the purse. It is very difficult to accept the fact that women in the public sector are paid time and again. Of course, the social pact was not written by the government, but the government is responsible for the whole, for making decisions that treat people equally and constitute a fair, acceptable whole that also improves equality. The government's own previous decisions have already hit the lowest-income women most, such as the cut in the right to day care and the increase in health charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u42	Is the Prime Minister answering? — Prime Minister Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u43	Mr President! This package, this package, is not aimed at public women in any way. Now I would like to emphasise that this is a matter agreed by the social partners and that this solution has not now been guided by the government. We have accepted what the social partners have decided and agreed together, i.e. we appreciate that this kind of solution has arisen, and, as I said many times at the beginning of this Question Time, we understand well the pain behind this decision, and we appreciate that those working now have come to the benefit of the Finnish unemployed in such a way that new employment opportunities have also been created, especially in women-dominated, employment-intensive sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u44	Madam President! That is precisely the case, in principle this is the solution of the social partners. There is, of course, one thing in which the government goes further than what the social partners did, and that is an equalisation of the cost of parenting, and I hope that it will be a measure which will make it possible for women to work on an equal footing and to join us in working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u45	Mr President! Likely everyone in this country knows that the problems of exports will not be solved by reducing labour costs. If the government were genuinely concerned about Finland’s competitiveness, it would invest in education, not cut it;
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u46	Mr President! I really hope that such a message will not be put forward. The fact that the Finnish export industry is not dependent on the competitiveness and cost level of the Finnish labour force is a misconception. The fact that the Finnish export industry has been highly automated in its production and so on is that it increases productivity. But the Finnish export industry uses a lot of Finnish subcontractors, uses Finnish services, and all that we do here, including tax solutions: if the tax rate rises, it will circle through the competitiveness of Finnish exports into employment in the whole chain. In other words, this certainly has an impact on the competitiveness of Finnish exports, and all solutions relating to wages or tax rates go around the competitiveness of Finnish exports and thus our employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u47	Madam President! We all know the problems of Finnish exports. Our exports are too low. We still have not reached the level of the peak years we were in 2007. This is largely due to structural changes in our industry, but also to this competitiveness problem. The biggest problem is that we have too few international companies. A large proportion, 24%, of our exports are on the shoulders of about five companies. About 14% of our SMEs are on the international market. The fact that we can get new companies to export, sell their products abroad, the enormously good know-how we have is a key issue, and that is precisely why we need to improve companies' ability to compete even at cost, that is to say, to improve competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u48	Mr President! If this solution, as is hoped, can be found to be comprehensive and successful in the spring, it also tells us that this contractual society has worked in this society. When I think only of the discussions that have taken place in this Chamber before, this has not been quite an indivisible idea. Now, if this is successful, the social partners will make the most important decision of this term of government that has been taken in the country during this term of government. This is a good thing for us to keep in mind. Then we need to assess this solution as a whole, there are many difficult details, but we need to assess what would be in this country in the autumn, with its coercive laws and mess in the labour market field. This is how you see things, too. In this thinking of local reconciliation, it was a good way to go that it is part of the negotiating system, not a separate law that separates local agreement from the negotiating system, and thus can be developed. In conclusion, my question would be in this regard: could it be possible to think of 11 billion dividends being distributed this spring?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u49	Mr President! I agree with Mr Ihalainen that this was a victory for the Finnish contractual society. This contractual society showed that we are also able to act in such a situation where difficult decisions have to be taken in the opposite way in an atypical and unaccustomed way. As far as this local agreement is concerned, I was pleased to note that, in fact, there is no terrible dispute between employees and employers, but that employees' organisations are very willing, at a very similar level, to move local reconciliation forward. It is said that this did give us confidence that further steps will also be taken in the future in the area of local reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u50	Mr President! It is good that the agreement has been reached, and it is important that stability is achieved in Finland, that investments can be made here. But the deal wasn't painless either. I hope that the government will assess the agreement as a whole and its consequences for low-income Finnish people, including the unemployed, how it can actually be created and then, in particular, in the women-dominated sectors of the public sector. Companies should now be required to respond to the call because the threshold for employment is falling. How does the government intend to make these investments in Finland? Secondly, what has not been opened up to me, and what is indeed a great disappointment: why, in both the compulsory government laws and in this package, albeit less restrictively, are women-dominated sectors in the public sector paying for a reduction in social insurance contributions for all? It seems unfair to a nanny or a midwife that why it is precisely her holiday money that needs to be cut, that is, 500,000 people in the public sector, and that benefit will be transferred to the export industry. How is their salary reduction necessary?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u51	Mr President! If I say my own opinion on this detail in that agreement, I agree that it should have been about everyone. But the social partners have reached such a conclusion, and I respect the agreement that has been reached by the contractual society, and we have accepted it on our side. As far as investment in Finland is concerned, I really hope and appeal to the business world, too, in what was also the second question for Mr Ihalainen that the benefits of this agreement come to investment in Finland. This is now a condition for the government and an appeal for investment to start and for this objective of 35 000 to 45,000 new jobs to actually be achieved as a result of this agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u52	Madam President! The deduction of the Kela levy was promised to increase employment. When the corporation tax was reduced, dynamic effects had to come, employment and investment. And what was the result? We have the worst investment depression since the '90s, unemployment is only increasing. At the same time, the dynamic effects are visible on the stock exchange: dividends of EUR 11000 million are distributed to shareholders. It is such a huge amount that it is difficult to get an idea of it, but it corresponds to the annual labour cost of 240,000 people in the private sector on average. The question now is that, when the abolition of the Kela levy, when the reduction in corporation tax did not result in investments and jobs and now we are transferring EUR 2500 million from employees to employers, you tell us, Mr Lindström, what you guarantee and what mechanism you ensure,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u53	Madam President! That is the kind of law we can hardly legislate to force employers to employ or invest. This is where competitiveness is sought, and that competitiveness is certainly what will then attract those investments. This is what it's gonna be like. In other words, when you get higher competitiveness when you make this decision, it also attracts those investments. I recognise that it is more desirable, as the Prime Minister has just said. It's the degree of wish. We cannot force it, but this creates the conditions for a completely different solution from, for example, the fact that we were forced to impose something, because now the social partners are involved and they have realised that the situation is serious. I believe that when they're involved, this society will benefit, because then there will be a large crowd of people to support this. I really hope for a positive solution on Monday so that we can move forward and get the 35,000 jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u54	Let us take a final question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u55	Mr President! There has been talk here of investments and jobs. They are necessary in Finland at the moment in order to achieve growth. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour also said that the government does not have the means to mobilise investment. Hopes are being expressed, requests are being made, petitions are being made, but is there really no way for the government to suggest that companies that make large dividends will also use this money they receive for investment in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u56	Mr President! In the midst of apathy and negativity, we want to forget what is already happening under that surface, that is, we have a lot of investments in the bioeconomy, the forest industry is in the process of reforming towards the bioeconomy, we are moving towards replacement investments in Finland by mobile companies. Three weeks ago I was in India on a export promotion trip and there I noticed that exports are clearly picking up. Finnish companies have exactly what this world today is calling for: renewable energy. We have the cleanest country in the world as an example, and cleantech, for example, will lead the way. These investments have already started, and I believe that this joint agreement will give it a new boost.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u57	In order to allow time for other issues too, this issue is now closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u58	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u59	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! I offentligheten har vi fått höra att det inom regeringen tycks råda olika åsikter igen om vårdreformen och antlet vårdområden. Nu skulle det vara dags att också rai i riksdagen få veta vad det är som gäller.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u60	Madam President! Preparations for the change in social and health care are progressing along the lines set out in the Government Programme on the one hand, and 7.11 on the other. agreed between the parties of the government. There is an entity whose preparation for office is most intense at the moment. More than a dozen people full - time and over a hundred in addition to their own work, along with other assignments, are doing this preparation. Notes are being prepared, different options are being sought. We are on a planned schedule, and when there is a magazine in the birch tree — and hopefully spring is not very early — then the whole package of laws is also being assessed by Parliament in a situation where it is about to go to the consultation. I am very confident that the timetable will be kept and the journey will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u61	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u62	Fru Talman! Regeringen presenterade alldeles nyligen också sina linjedragningar när det gäller jourverksamheten och centraliseringen av den, och där kommer man med kraftiga åtgärder nog att försämra möjligheten till dugnetruntjour på många tillen i vårt land.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u63	The people, Madam President, will receive the best possible care safely throughout the country in a situation where urgent assistance is needed. Secondly, in the final analysis, Parliament will decide what kind of amendment to the Health Care Act will be made in relation to these on-call services. The preparation is on the schedule of the normal drafting of legislation and in the way in which the budget law is being prepared, the amendment of the Health Care Act, the amendment of the three regulations that is coming up for consultation and is going on a consultation visit to regions, municipalities, health care districts and regions, so that the budget law has the opportunity to make these decisions in the Health Care Act. The last word, then, is for Parliament to say how this whole package of emergency services will take shape.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u64	Madam President! This information about a possible constitutional problem regarding the number and division of social areas has been available to us, at least in the parliamentary monitoring group since December, but it has not been made clear either, because the situation is that it has been given the impression that this problem can also be resolved. When no other information has come so far, at least I myself assume that this problem can be solved. Of course, there is a need for clarity on this point very soon, and perhaps I could use some insight from the Minister. Then the second problem that has arisen is these provincial elections, which are an integral part of this system. During the last parliamentary term, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the most unproblematic way of implementing social reform is precisely the directly elected regional councils. After all, the starting point is still that this reform will be carried out through elections, so that the first regional councils will be elected rather than by municipal councils.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u65	Mr President! There have been a number of options on the table here, and we have not yet given final direction in the government, but there is a lot of feedback just like yours that it would be good for the first regional councils to be elected directly. Then, of course, it is a starting point that, if self-government regions are made, it will involve a direct national election. Now that there are problems here, partly because we have future municipalists in April 2017, which would be the best time for other elections, it is not possible because this other legislation will not be able to do so. That is why there has been a debate on the various options here, but I would say that today it is the reform ministers who have agreed together that future municipal elections will be held in April 2017, which means that they will not be moving any of it anywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u66	Mr President! Perhaps this confusion has been compounded by the fact that there has been a wide range of regional figures in the public domain, even within the government. We have talked about five areas, 12 emergency hospital areas, then these 15 and 18, which were on the November agenda of the government. It would certainly be good for Parliament to be informed of the basis on which this is being prepared, because, as chairman of the committee, I am concerned about whether this timetable will be kept, that we will then have a legislative proposal that can be implemented and passed through. And when there is a great deal to be said about the way forward in the regions, Mr Prime Minister, could you illustrate the basis on which this preparation is now being made in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u67	Madam President! The air's a rumor to the Kraut. This is a task that is always in the back of the road when it comes to talking down these rumours. Our preparations — under the leadership of Under-Secretary of State Thomas Pöyst and the preparation of our politicians — are progressing on exactly the timetable that has been set for the government and more broadly since last summer. This is an interesting point, Mr President, in this Chamber too, that it is also required from the opposition that preparations should start again and, on the one hand, we want to hurry, to know right here and now in an exact way. We are trying to make such careful preparations that, at a time when the legislative package is in the Parliament and is being evaluated by the Constitutional Committee, it will then be acceptable as a package as a whole, both in terms of the number of regions and in terms of other key solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u68	Mr President! It is very important that the social legislation, the law of organisation, be carefully prepared and that a package be adopted by Parliament after careful consideration. Now that there has been a public debate on this model, which has been decided by the government, 18 and 15, and we, who have looked at this for a long time, have considered this constitutional aspect too, it is important that as soon as possible the corresponding minister and the government should bring forward to the public debate how this will be put forward, just the calculation of how this model will achieve the goals set by the government for social reform and also the constitutional assessment. It is important that this be brought to an open public debate as soon as possible. But I ask when that law is about to be put on the agenda of a statement in the spring: as the Minister said, it will certainly also be accompanied by financial solutions, because it is extremely important that the whole body can be evaluated when the municipalities and others are involved. And finally, if there is anything to fix on that model, I hope that it will be corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u69	Madam President! There are about a dozen people in this country who will make an overall assessment of the government proposal that Parliament will receive in due course. As far as preparation is concerned, the better the outcome and the overall picture, when this whole package is in front of us — even months of preparation and consultation — the less questions that are not in line with the Constitution, the better the outcome will be. Secondly, one of the core elements of this package is that a financing solution is being created. A year ago, the Parliament’s Constitutional Committee dealt with the government’s proposal at the time, and it was tried and asked straight away that what if a financial solution were left out? The answer was: it is such an integral part of the whole package that it is part of the very essence of this whole package of laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u70	Madam President! Of course, we all hope that the best for the patient and the customer will come true. Of course, it still confuses me that these constitutional issues have once again arisen, and I would have liked to know a little more about what is there now what is most affected: is this the number of regions, that it is 15 and 18? Is it difficult to build that financial solution, because we know that this will also be a major tax reform and this will be a state aid reform on the side? In what way will all these be solved? Furthermore, if we look at this possibility raised by Minister Vehviläinen that we do not have a direct election, it would indeed seem a very special solution and certainly run counter to the spirit of self-government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u71	Madam President! Work to ensure that Finns, regardless of their place of residence and the thickness of the bag, will continue to have the welfare and health services that would be available if necessary, for about 15 years. The journey has progressed so far that last winter we had a legislative package before Parliament, which subsequently fell into the constitutional problems. Much has now been learned from that preparation, and we have not left empty. Well, then, how about from now on, how's the preparation going? There are open questions, and this is the solution of the size class that the war is in the finish line and ready at the moment when the President of Parliament, at second reading, strikes the club at the table. Until then, we have things that are open, until then we have questions that we just have to find solutions to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u72	One more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u73	Mr President! I believe that the reform of the social and regional sectors is one of the most important and important reforms in Finland and must be completed. This requires political leadership and commitment. These basic elements of social reform should have been outlined already in the Government Programme, because now it seems that there are major differences within the Government about these fundamental issues. It must be remembered that the most important thing here is to secure people's access to services, to a doctor, but now that these basic issues are still being debated, people and human services seem to be forgotten. Now the regions are waiting for decisions to be made to move forward. We should now have a clear decision on the regions as quickly as possible, a clear decision on funding. I would like to ask the Minister if this confused 15/18 division of regions should not already be buried and move forward with a clear approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u74	Madam President! The basics have been laid down. That policy work has now been prepared. The basic thing is that regardless of where you live, regardless of the size of the money bag, we will continue to have the service promise that social and health services will be available in Finland. Among other things, the backrest that currently exists for this work is the experience and decisions, the solutions, the opinions, the reports, the numerous working group papers that have been produced over the years. A year ago, at this time, the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee dealt with the government's proposal at that time. On the other hand, Madam President, the message to the regions: the better the provision of local services, the better the specific characteristics of the different regions will be taken into account, the further the regions themselves will take the preparatory work forward. We have evidence in Finland that in the midst of all uncertainty good decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u75	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u76	Mr President! As vice-chairman of the Bureau, I present the committee's report. In the Government's proposal, it is proposed to amend the provisions on working time equivalent to those laid down in the Annual Holidays Act and the Annual Holidays Act for seafarers, The committee supports the adoption of legislative proposals with the following comments and amendments: The cost savings resulting from the changes proposed to employers are mainly realised in the private sector. According to a report received by the committee, the annual leave allowances received by the employer in the municipal sector under the Health Insurance Act would be reduced by approximately EUR 10 million per year as long as the earnings of the holiday in accordance with the civil service and collective agreement remain unchanged. In this respect, the Committee considers the proposal to be difficult for the finances of the municipalities, but considers that the proposal as a whole does not weaken public finances. In practice, mothers are more affected by the amendment of the law and, in particular, the right to annual leave for mothers is restricted because the periods of family leave taken by mothers are longer than those given by fathers. Since mothers in practice prefer the majority of parental leave, the proposed change will shorten the annual leave for mothers during their family leave by almost 40 per cent. Fathers’ annual leave, on the other hand, does not get much shorter, because fathers’ parental leave is shorter than that of mothers. The committee also draws attention to the fact that, although the change does not treat single parents on a personal level as opposed to the families of two guardians, it in practice weakens their holiday benefits in particular, because single parents have only one guardian to take an annual leave. The committee considers it important that the reform of the annual holiday law should clarify the situation of single-parent families. In the opinion of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, the proposal puts mothers at a disadvantage compared to the law in force. The Councillor also considers that the proposal is discriminatory, since single parents are mainly women. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered the proposal to be difficult to reconcile due to its impact with the prohibition of indirect discrimination and the constitutional mandate for gender equality. On the other hand, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the problem with the proposal is reduced by the fact that parental leave can be shared between mother and father and the effects of regulation ultimately depend on the choice of families. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not consider this proposal to be discrimination prohibited by the Constitution, but considers that the constitutional obligation to promote gender equality is in favour of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities considering changing the proposal in a way which, in terms of its actual effects, would be more equal to women and men. The committee considers the assessments of the gender impact of the law by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality and the Constitutional Committee to be important and worthy of attention. However, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities draws attention to the fact that the proposal also has implications for improving gender equality. According to the Government’s proposal, the change is expected to offset the effects of family leave if it encourages men to use more parental leave. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities shares the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Government must closely monitor the impact of the law on the effective implementation of gender equality in working life and, if necessary, take the necessary corrective measures. The committee particularly stresses the importance of monitoring the role of single parents. The committee requires the Government to report to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities by the end of 2018, unless the full reform of the annual leave law is carried out before then. Then there is the second paragraph of this law. In the proposal, it is proposed to amend the annual leave law in such a way that, in the event of an employee's illness during his or her annual leave, the first 6 days of illness are so-called'supplementary days' which do not justify the transfer of the annual leave to a later date. However, the employee is always entitled to at least 4 weeks of annual leave as required by the Working Time Directive. The committee's proposal for a decision is for Parliament to adopt the second and third legislative proposals in the Government's proposal without amendment. The committee proposes two amendments to the first draft law: The annual holiday law contains three rules on the calculation of holiday pay, which is proposed to be specified. Secondly, for the sake of clarity, the committee proposes an amendment to Article 7, which would provide for a calculation rule whereby a period of 182 calendar days is regarded as equal to the period of employment. With these changes, the committee proposes approval of the government's proposal 1. to the draft law. I would like to emphasise that the decision is not unanimous but contains two objections, one of which I am personally involved in.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u77	Mr President! The Government proposes to weaken the annual leave from maternity, paternity and parental leave. The annual leave law is proposed to be amended to include a six-day allowance in the compensation for annual leave. The reduction is directed at annual holiday surveys in a way that is unequally distributed between women and men. In practice, this means that in the future, in the case of parental leave, mothers will receive 51 days of leave and fathers will receive 102 days of leave. The government has therefore failed to understand the biological background of maternity leave, i.e. childbirth and breast-feeding. The family cannot choose which parent uses this leave, but is determined by sex. Therefore, the government's calculation model of parental leave is discriminatory from the point of view of equal treatment of the sexes. The proposal also disciplines single parents in practice, who often do not have the opportunity to share child care leave with another guardian. On the other hand, the proposal will reduce the holiday pay and holiday allowance for mothers in particular, thereby further increasing the unjustified pay gap between women and men. From a wide range of points of view, the proposal therefore weakens the position of women and gender equality in particular. Among other things, the opinion of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality states that the proposal puts mothers at a disadvantage compared to the law in force. The Ombudsman for Gender Equality does not support the proposed limitation of the right to annual leave for the period of family leave and considers that the proposed changes do not meet the eligibility and proportionality requirements for the limitation of fundamental rights. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee is also very critical of this change. One quote: 'In the view of the Committee, the objective of saving could not, as such, justify deviations from the principle of equality of persons guaranteed by the Constitution, and therefore could not constitute an acceptable basis for putting anyone in a different position, within the meaning of Article 6(2) of the Constitution, on the basis of sex.' On the other hand, in addition to this discrimination, the weakening of the annual parental leave survey complicates the legislation from the perspective of both the employee and the employer. There are also challenges in implementation. Among other things, Kela's opinion states that it is difficult for Kela to determine when a person is free in accordance with the Employment Contracts Act. I would also point out that the proposal increases the cost of municipal employers, because in practice the share of the cost of parenthood in public sectors that are dominated by women will increase. The government's proposal also includes a reduction in compensation for holiday sickness day. The government will present a six-day pass to compensate for the day of sickness. This proposal undermines the predictability of legislation, as no impact assessments have yet been carried out on the previous amendment. I would like to remind you that the option of qualifying was already examined in connection with the adoption of the current law, but it proved to be administratively burdensome and abandoned. The planned change increases the administrative burden. Firstly, it would require extensive and cost-effective accounting by the employer for the accumulation of annual leave and sick days. On the other hand, it would be advisable for the worker to provide a report approved by the employer for each day of his illness, i.e. in practice a medical certificate. Such squirming and bureaucratic legislation runs counter to the government's efforts to clarify regulation and standards. I believe that the government's proposal has crucial constitutional problems. The proposed savings, especially in the public sector, are also partly unattainable. The administrative burden of the reform is increasing, the cost of parenting is being reversed, and the proposal is generally confusing and inconsistent legislation. I think it would have been clearer to include all the changes to the annual holiday law in the context of the overall reform of the law promised by the government. On the basis of the above, we will be presenting at the second reading that the bill is rejected on the basis of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u78	Mr President! I would like to comment briefly on this excellent and well-prepared speech by Mr Nurminen that there is a great deal to be said about the substance of these annual holidays, but what about the unresolved constitutional problems — as Mr Nurminen said in his speech — since when do we have the opposition parliamentary group that has resolved constitutional issues? Do we still not have those statements from the Constitutional Committee? I happen to be there in committee, and the committee unanimously stated that this could be provided for under the ordinary legislative procedure. I find it a little regrettable, President, that every single political dispute we have today is confusing the Constitution and confusing the citizens and this debate in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u79	Mr President! In fact, on this same point: Mr Nurminen took this opinion from the Constitutional Committee, from this last page, one sentence, and he himself — and I am a member of the Constitutional Committee and also a member of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, and he dealt with it in both, a very familiar matter — pointed out that, in other respects, the Constitutional Committee stated that, in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the objective of saving could not, as such, justify deviations from the principle of equality of persons guaranteed by the Constitution. Yes, yes, but here we have not read this first sentence, which states that the aim of this proposal is to save public finances, that is to say savings, and to limit the costs incurred by the employer for the annual leave of a worker on family leave. You have to read these whole things and not pick up the items you really want here. Just as Mr Kurvin said: this has been unanimously resolved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u80	Mr President! Let us go to the steak of this matter, and the steak of this matter is that the government now wants to make legislation that discriminates between men and women. That's the steak of this show. And it is quite a long way from the fact that in the Government Programme the Government states that Finland is an equal country. Well, there is little to ask now whether the government is now violating its own programme by means of this legislation, which is really increasingly seeking to discriminate between women and men when comparing them. There must be some justification, as Mr Nurminen described in that very meritably from the toilet what certain difficulties and minor problems — and not even minor ones — are — which are connected with this law, and it would probably be worth considering that, just in one place, this could actually be mitigated, precisely for these unequal reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u81	We're doing one of those little debuts here. There are a number of speakers who have been asked to speak. We're going through some of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u82	Mr President! This bill corrects the ownership of illness on annual leave, the incorrect interpretation of the European Working Time Directive in 2013. In this case, the 7-day allowance was removed in the event of illness if it coincides with the holiday. This proposal restores ownership, which has financial implications for employers in such a way as to reduce the cost of employers. It is immediately visible on the private side, but also on the public side, when the matter is taken into contract of employment and contract of employment, there are savings to be expected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u83	Mr President! The question of what and how to interpret what the Constitutional Committee says is an eternity issue, and it has been under discussion in this Chamber for quite a few decades. It is quite clear that the difficult order of regulation must be taken seriously when it is there, but the other words of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are also heavy and well thought-out goods, which should have some meaning when other substance committees consider how they organise or deal with a matter. I myself read this document of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in such a way that, although it is not a question of a way of dealing with a matter which is not unconstitutional or prejudicial, it is a positive interpretation of human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u84	Mr President! Representative Meri here said we should look at the whole and not just take individual sentences. Well, that is what I would like to say to Mrs Kurvise and Mrs Merelle herself. When I listened here to Mrs Nurminen's good speech, in which she raised these problems, which are contained in this annual holiday law, I heard it in particular that she said in it, just as Mr Kontula has just said, that there are certain constitutional problems, even though they do not require this complicated order of regulation, and the opinion of the Constitutional Committee was very critical, just as Mr Nurminen has said here. I hope that these guidelines, which are being given here, will, of course, also be followed by each of us in our own speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u85	Mr President! I would like to briefly highlight a point which, as in most other debates in this House, is regularly forgotten in this debate. By this I mean that these comparisons of gender benefits completely overlook the fact that the position of women and men in the labour market is determined not only by what kind of pay and holiday benefits they appear to have, but also by how attractive they are to employers. Thus, the opponent of such improvements or weakenings will always have an effect on the attractiveness of hiring these people for the employer. In this case, too, this limitation of the right to annual leave, which can be assessed by de facto as affecting women somewhat more than men, also makes them more attractive to employers, improves their labour market position, creates more income for them, better careers and, ultimately, better pensions. This is part of this overall assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u86	And now for the time being, Vice-President of the committee, Mr Järvinen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u87	Mr President! The opposition takes a very humble view of what the Constitutional Committee says and does not try to distort them. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not consider this to be prohibited discrimination, but strongly advocated that our committee, the Committee on Labour, should have changed the proposal in a way that would have a more equal impact on women and men than proposed. As far as I am concerned, I am sorry that our committee did not do this work. There would have been many suggestions for this, for example, that the loss of annual leave and annual leave for mothers and fathers would have been calculated purely only for the parental leave period, which is 158 days in total, when 79 days for both would have been the half of this. The second point is that of these single parents, and of course the committee could and should have considered the solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u88	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I remember very well the way the Constitutional Committee, when it comes to a unanimous report, does it. Each word is weighed very carefully and sought for a common vision, and many times we go over the text. In the text that has been made in this context, every word has been carefully considered. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am a little disappointed that, although, of course, it turns out that this was not put behind the wheel — it is not a question of order of regulation, it is quite clear — that our message to the substance committee, to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities has not been properly heard in this matter. We called for serious consideration to be given to changing this so that this loss of parental leave would be a little more balanced according to this regulation. But that was not changed by the substance committee, and in that sense the message was not heard very carefully there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u89	Mr President! I'll answer to Mr. Vartiainen, even though he's already out of the gym. This idea of such theoretical attractiveness on the labour market when considering the advantages or disadvantages of a certain position in the labour market is terribly interesting, but it is terribly ill-suited to the general criteria by which we usually try to define the position of a person in the labour market, because it would mean that the most attractive workers would be those who were least paid and who had the worst working conditions, and that is not what we think. A sensible way of managing the attractiveness of women in the labour market would be to provide joint funds in which employers equally contribute to the cost of parenting, regardless of the age and gender of their own employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u90	I have still marked the responses to the representatives of Nurminen, Meri, Järvinen, Mäkisalo-Ropponen. Apparently, these are what we do and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u91	Mr President! I believe that this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should not be viewed in any way simply with a shrug. In this speech, I pointed out that the opinion was very critical and explicitly stated that gender discrimination should not be based on this kind of discrimination, and in this speech I also pointed out the position of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. In my opinion, the government did not change this proposal despite these statements, but is determined to move forward with this proposal, which I believe is directed specifically at gender. I believe that we could look at this issue further, even if, according to the European Charter of Social Rights, which requires that people should not be placed on a gender-based basis in a position of inequality, and from very many other points of view. I wish the government had changed its proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u92	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Nurminen that we should take the opinions of the Constitutional Committee seriously, and that is the intention. It has just come to the attention of us there in a very specific and very careful way to think about what goes behind the wheel, in other words, for the listeners, I mean that we are calling for some changes. However, we did not require any change, we brought it as a fervent, serious wish. But what we added to this debate is still missing. In other words, if the proposal is laid down in the way proposed by the government — and we also said it was possible — then we would like to see this monitoring of working life and equality, which was also shared by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. Then we must bear in mind that this is no mandatory legislation other than that, in fact, the employer does not receive compensation for sick leave. This has to go first to the contract of employment and the contract of employment, and that can be the case that it does not even go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u93	Mr President! It is great that the issue of the employment problem and equality in the labour market for young women is being discussed more extensively in this debate. As long as the risk of having a baby brings an additional decrease of around EUR 17000 to the employer according to the average wage on the private side, it is clear that the position of young women in the labour market will be worse than that of men. It was proposed here that employers should be able to share the costs equally, all together. An even fairer and fairer model is that we would all share this payment together, both employees and employers, as we do in Sweden, where we believe that we will all benefit from future babies. We all need pensioners, and that is what Finland should strive for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u94	Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and then Mr Talja, and then we will go back to the actual speeches, when Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen will meet us again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u95	Mr President! It has been very worrying to follow this policy of breaking down government equality. This bill is just one of many legislative proposals in the same direction. For example, an increase in day care fees easily leads to many mothers wondering if it is worth going to work. Similarly, the weakening of work-linked leave is particularly targeted at women-dominated sectors. Many legislative proposals do not fully include gender impact assessments. The government can now hope, or in fact hope, for a change of direction and for better impact and gender impact assessments, because they have been unauthorized to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u96	Mr President! I agree with Mr Vartiainen's comment that the proposal, however, makes it possible for young women to find better employment. I am surprised at the comments from the left side of the Chamber that this government has now increased inequality between the sexes. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has explicitly stated in the Group's Constitutional Committee that the Government must closely monitor the impact of the law on the effective implementation of gender equality in working life, and the Government will report to the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities by the end of 2018, and this would be corrected once and for all in the context of the reform of the Working Time Act — we hope that it will be launched as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u97	In the meantime, Mrs Myllykoski, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u98	Mr President! Yes, I look at this from a slightly different perspective from Mr Talja. The government has made a value choice to change the annual holiday law and its regulation. It is a choice of values, and we know, on the basis of the statistics in question, who will suffer the most, and it will then be a political choice of values. You will answer to the single parents who suffer most from this. You take the risk that how much more women give birth than men — there is no need for any greater wonder than we know how many single mothers we have in this country. They will be the group that suffers from this. This is a political decision that undermines equality between women and men, and this makes it particularly fatal for single parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u99	Once again, Mr Talja, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u100	Mr President! The committee was aware of the role of single parents, but I would point out that we are waiting for an overall reform of the annual leave law, which would assess the current legislation, how it is now being amended, and also how the status of single mothers will be resolved in Finland. I personally see it as justified by the Swedish way, but I will leave it to a later assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u101	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u102	Mr President! This bill proposes, among other things, that annual leave for maternity, paternity and parental leave should not exceed 6 months. At the same time, it is proposed to amend the provisions of the Health Insurance Act on the right of employers to annual leave allowances in such a way that the entitlement to compensation would be limited to the period of statutory annual leave. The Government justifies this law through savings in central government finances and a reduction in employers' costs. This bill contains many points and points of view that justify serious criticism. Let's start with the employer's situation. The law increases the administrative costs of employers, as employers are now required to keep more accurate records of working hours and annual holidays. In addition, Kela's experts feel that there will be problems in implementing the law, because Kela is difficult to determine, for example, when a person is free in accordance with the Employment Contracts Act. These surveys will become additional work for both the employer and Kela. The Government has stressed that the municipalities will no longer increase their costs. However, this law will increase them. This is due to the fact that municipalities, state and parishes have longer leave than legal obligations in the collective agreement. In these areas, the reduction of Kela compensation for employers will increase the employer's costs. In the case of parents of young children, the weakening of the annual leave for maternity, paternity and parental leave means the difficulty of reconciling work and family life. It is particularly regrettable in this bill that the law is clearly discriminatory in terms of gender. The Government proposes to weaken the annual leave from maternity, paternity and parental leave in a way that is unevenly distributed between women and men. I find it incomprehensible that the government consciously makes discriminatory legislation. A maternity leave, which is 105 daily, has a biological explanation: the mother must recover from childbirth and the mother breast-feeds the baby, and therefore this leave cannot be shared. In particular, paternity leave ensures the right of fathers to care and to be with children, and this 54 working days have been earmarked for the father. It is not justified that these different lengths and different types of leave should be calculated as the basis for the holiday accumulation surgery and that parental leave cuts should be calculated. This calculation model leads to mothers receiving 51 days of leave in the case of simultaneous parental leave, while fathers receiving double the number of 102 days. In addition to all of this, the bill disciplines single parents in particular, who do not have the opportunity to share care leave with another guardian. The representatives of the government parties in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities admit this point in their report, but only state that the situation of single parents is being clarified. It would, however, be worth making legislation that was originally proper and non-discriminatory. The majority of single parents are women, as well as those taking parental leave, and the proposal will reduce the holiday pay and holiday allowance for mothers in particular, thereby further increasing the unjustified pay gap between women and men. During the hearings of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman expressed the view that the proposed amendments do not meet the eligibility and proportionality requirements required for the restriction of fundamental rights. He too paid particular attention to the role of single parents and stated that the proposal was clearly discriminatory from their point of view, since single parents are mainly women. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stated that the impact of the draft law is difficult to reconcile with the prohibition of indirect discrimination and the constitutional mandate for gender equality in the Constitution. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that since parental leave can be shared between mother and father and families can choose how to act, in that sense the law can be adopted. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stated that it would be appropriate to provide for this in a form which would be more equal to women and men. However, the government parties did not want to change the bill in this direction, despite this guidance. Mr President! At worst, this issue may even have to be resolved by the European Court of Human Rights, because there are so clearly discriminatory aspects here, but we will see what happens in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u103	Mr President! If a bill is produced and made by the government, it does not necessarily make it a good one. It would be a good idea to think about this when the government itself states at the outset that a proposal is questionable and may not achieve its own objective. As we see in this proposal, for example, these financial savings, which are envisaged here, are not necessarily achieved at all, but may even turn the other way around. When the matter is dealt with in committee, there too, the experts will raise these points of view, and the committee will clearly see that the proposal should not be taken forward, but because it is a government proposal, it will be taken forward. And then, of course, the question comes at least to myself as a representative of the Parliament, as a legislator, how far is it prepared to go in this sort of intellectual dishonesty, which deceives itself. That is perhaps what the first-period MP is thinking about, Mr President. This government proposal is not a good family policy. It increases inequality and its savings are uncertain. Children need to be taken to day care earlier and their effects are important for the child’s development. In the Government’s proposal, the annual leave law will be amended so that the annual leave from maternity, paternity and parental leave will continue to accumulate for a maximum period of 6 months. I am not in favour of these changes. As the report states, the proposal is problematic from the point of view of equality when it puts mothers at a disadvantage. The presentation is particularly difficult for single mothers, because they cannot share parental leave with their father and thus their choice will affect the accumulation of annual leave. The performance weakens the ability of families to care for a small child at home and should increase the transfer of smaller children to municipal day care in the past. Child home care has typically been continued by means of holiday days on maternity and parental leave. Cutting the right to leave reduces the time spent in the home care of infants. It is reprehensible that the drafting of the law has once again forgotten the child's perspective and that the impact assessments have not been carried out. I am surprised that we are moving in reverse: the law is first laid down and then the report requires that the impact of the law be examined by the end of 2018. Why are impact assessments not carried out before the law is passed? Article 1 of Chapter 14 of the Health Insurance Act It is proposed to amend it so that the employer can only receive compensation for annual holiday costs during the period of statutory annual leave. I do not support the amendment of the law, which would reduce the reimbursement of parenting costs for employers whose collective agreement provides the best protection for parents of families with children. The proposal would have a negative impact on equality as it would further increase the threshold for the recruitment of young women potentially on maternity leave. Furthermore, the proposal would put employers in a different position on the basis of the collective agreement they are obliged to comply with. However, if the collective agreement determined that the holiday was to accumulate throughout the period of maternity, paternity and parental leave, the compensation would be paid only for a period of 6 months. Therefore, a change in the law would only increase the cost of hiring an employee for employers. As stated in the report, the annual allowances for the health insurance bill received by the employer in the municipal sector would be reduced by around EUR 10 million per year. I believe that the amendment to the law is unreasonable, and I will therefore come at a detailed reading to propose that it be rejected on these grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u104	Mr President! To be honest, in this list of government's various actions for depravity, this proposal now under discussion is just a small footnote. In the end, it is not a terrible thing to compare it with all the other performances, changes and projects that make a low-income person's life even more low-income. The Left Alliance is the Labour Party, and it is opposed to unilateral weakening of working conditions. We have a bourgeois government here in the country, and it is understandable that it causes unilateral weakening of working conditions. There is nothing unclear about this situation, nothing more about it. This bill will not be improved by a small correction, so we will be in favour of rejecting the bill. Instead, I would like to draw attention to some of the technical weaknesses that exist in this proposal. Firstly, the main objective of the proposal as a whole is to achieve savings which have been calculated in such a way as to be unrealistic in that, if they occur at all, they will be delayed and significantly lower than what has been proposed here. This is because the changes that are being proposed here are largely behind the TES agreements and, as such, will not enter into force. The second problem: this will significantly increase the administrative burden which we now need to reduce. This is the case both in connection with the holiday calculation in companies and also in Kela. It is estimated that this will happen even if only full-time people are spoken of in employment contracts that are valid for the time being, but no one has even dared to guess what kind of mess will arise from all those pre-carriages, short-term, shredded, part-time workers and the calculation of these annual leave and various types of leave. That is not even where we have begun. Third problem: the complexity of legislation. This is particularly relevant to this issue of year-on-year sick. The general objective of good law is that such a law should be passed, that just an ordinary person reading that law would be able to get into some kind of perception of what is being said there and whether I have a holiday or whether I have a sick day or whether I have a working day. Now we are creating a law in which it is becoming increasingly difficult to find out how I should act now and how I should react to this. It's never a good development. Fourth problem: In particular, in relation to the holiday accumulations of parental allowance and other parental benefits, the law could have been much more equal. It was decided not to do it. Fifth paragraph: In order to justify the bill, in particular with regard to these parental leave holidays, it has been suggested that fathers should now be encouraged to spend more time at home with their children. Throughout the committee's consultation, we did not hear any expert contributions which proved through what mechanism and with what probability such an incentive would work. Personally, for a long time, I am very sceptical about the fact that the mere accumulation mechanism of the annual leave law would be sufficient for families when they consider how they organise care arrangements — especially in the case of biologically differentiated parental benefits, as is the case with maternity and paternity allowance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u105	Mr President! In my own speech, I will focus solely on the change in the ownership of the Sickness Act, because I remember the history of this matter from the last parliamentary term. If we remember first of all where this issue started: this came from the EU Working Time Directive originally, or rather from its interpretation in Finland. As far as the starting point is concerned, no association of employees — at least, as far as I know — made it clear that if you get sick on holiday, you have to get those holidays again, but this came as if he was having dinner with the European Union, and the preparations were going a long way before the previous Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities found out what this was all about. At the time there was a very strict political twist, which ultimately resulted in the adoption of this legislation, which left this ban in more than five weeks' annual leave, but did not leave it in these five weeks' annual leave. That was the background, and I remember the debate that was very strong at the time. Many employers, especially small employers — and I understand it well — were afraid that what kind of Pandora’s box is now opening up from this point on holiday will always make it possible to prove, of course, that there will always be new holidays when you get a medical certificate. Then, when this government started, or its government programme was made, this government started from the fact that the competitiveness of Finnish work must be improved in order to raise the employment rate. The previous government also sought a 72% employment rate but unfortunately did not get anywhere near it. Instead, this new government took serious steps to make changes to Finnish legislation so that this employment rate can be achieved, not only with these small changes, but, for example, with the social pact playing a very central role. Nevertheless, these individual adjustments were started, and this return to this holiday is precisely one of these specific changes. I am quite sure that it is not considered in any way unreasonable by employees either, because this was not even originally driven, but came a little as unsolicited or as a dinner if such a wording can be used. This solution, which has now been reached in the government proposal and in the good report of the committee, is very similar to what Denmark has already introduced in its own legislation. This is also the solution that, at European Union level, when things have been considered there, has been seen as a fair way of resolving this issue. So let me repeat the point: In those holidays where the annual leave is only four weeks — which we also have but which are reasonably few — the right to continue to be entitled to new holidays if you fall ill on holiday. When we are on vacation for five weeks, there will be this six-day allowance, and then if it takes more than six days to get sick, then there will be a right to have additional days on leave. In my opinion, this is a reasonable solution that has been found in a reasonable way, from the point of view of both the worker and the employer, and I think that it is a healthy development that: Finland is now introducing this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u106	Mr President! In that recent debate, I brought up a few points which I shall now repeat. Now, however, once again, it is good to remember that this is not mandatory legislation, but is meant to provide tools for the social partners if they want to use them as part of collective agreements. The only point that will come into force is the so-called This is the compensation side of the Health Insurance Act for municipalities, which imposes costs on the municipalities. That is what we took into consideration in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and said that this must be resolved. Personally — and I cannot speak of the comments made by others there — I meant, and I thought that we should see how this might possibly be compensated for by the municipalities and whether it will become a loss, and I think that is very important because we have also promised in the Government Programme that there will be no additional costs for the municipalities without compensation. I was also involved in that debate — and, of course, I can only comment on my own views or thoughts and not on others — when we discussed this single parenting. In fact, it was talked about quite generally, until I actually personally raised the point that this does not really apply to the person and the mother herself so much that she would be put in a different position than other mothers, but that family in particular would be put in a different position. So it happens that the child does not receive the care of two parents, and then there was such an idea, which everyone shared far, that this consideration of family structures was asked for in the future. This was certainly one of the reasons for me personally that it was not even possible, at least in my own mind, to leave for its bigger changes, because I at least see that at the moment, when this right to these parental leave is tied to the fact that parents live together, then the absence of this kind of situation, that is, for example, joint care and the mother and the mother are on good terms — when she could take the parental leave, and then the other goes to work. We should start looking at this society in a whole new way, we have very new kinds of families, and that is what I think is very important, that we have a little old-fashioned family concept and that we need to make it correspond to today. There are many stepfamilies, and people may be on good terms, but adults just don’t want to live together anymore, but they want to take care of their children together, and sometimes that difference comes even during pregnancy. It's just the way it is in life, and it's really nice if you get along well, but we have to get this right. We do have such a good and innovative and courageous government that I believe that, here too, MPs from other government parties are listening to this side with a very sensitive ear. Then these savings have been highlighted here. Well, of course, the savings will only come if these things come into the contract of employment and the contract of employment. However, perhaps too little has been taken into account in this debate that this change is based on the entry in the Government Programme on the reduction of the impact of the employer's absenteeism and risk of illness, i.e. this has an employment-supporting and seeking effect. And I kind of... Here in the debate came up such that this current government has done as some kind of value choice that does not care about women's position so much. It seems a little strange to me. I am a woman, as far as I know, and I have been chairman of this Parliament's women's network, I have wanted to do that job, it has been an interesting task, I have participated in things like this and wanted to promote them. Somehow I think it's a pretty brutal accusation to go now to claim that the government has made such a choice of values. I cannot quite understand — we have family ministers and parliamentarians with children and daughters and wives, so that somehow it may seem a little too simple and hard to argue. But all in all, I personally think about the whole of this journey which I myself have been in this Parliament, that yes this has been difficult things, and all these things that do not bring additions and improvements — it’s not nice to be like this taking forward, but I hope that this will lead us to a better future. And I hope now that you listened carefully to our family concept being changed to reflect today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u107	Mr President! It was gratifying to hear the representative raise the issue of the concept of these different families, and I hope that the message will also reach the government. But what we really need to see now is the fact that the Ombudsman for Gender Equality has not been able to describe this in such a rosy way. When we heard above how we here in Parliament have ministers' children and so on, they have nothing to do with anything in a way. But this debate has not brought up the fact that when we are concerned about equality, it should also be noted that, although the loss of annual leave is allocated to one year, it means that all that is not received during the annual leave will affect the future pension. So the effects will always have repercussions, and once the board has clearly taken up this kind of line, what representative Kontula brought up about how calculated this can be on the most easy basis that this usually saves generated, then raising them up... And certainly, hopefully, at the end of 18, these issues will indeed be looked at when this legislation comes into force. But I'd love to hear it, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u108	Mr President! This important gender debate is based on the Government Programme, Juha Sipilä's Government's Programme of Solutions Finland. We watched the emergence of a government programme with interest, because clearly there was something different and those responsible for making a government programme were trying to get it to be more intensive and shorter and slightly different from the very long government programme books that have been produced at the beginning of the last parliamentary term. There was talk of a strategic government programme, and I was also looking forward to the strategy and the way in which this will give a broad sense to the implementation of its government programme, so that Parliament can then see what is appropriate for these strategic objectives in the implementation of the government programme. However, very quickly the annexes to the Government Programme came, including Annex 6, which sets out the expenditure cuts that the government will take on its desk, and at that time there were very detailed records, and it does not seem to me now, on the basis of this debate and also the debate there in the Constitutional Committee, that it was now a little too detailed when it was recorded at the level of the Government Programme, in Annex 6, that this amount of parental leave would be limited to six months, and clearly the short record did not reflect on what these effects on equality were, however, when the situation was different for the mother and the father. Paragraph 6 of the Constitution, to which the Constitutional Committee also refers in its own opinion, states in paragraph 4 of the Constitution: "The equality of the sexes is promoted in social activities and in working life, in particular in terms of remuneration and other conditions of employment, as laid down in the law." This means that legislation must promote such things. This is the point that the experts we have heard in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have considered very carefully and thoroughly and concluded that this is not, however, a matter of order, because this Article 4 is so broad that it does not quite categorically prescribe what needs to be laid down by law, but it has such a purpose and purpose very clearly set, and the experts felt that this is now a little wobbly, how strong the conflict with this law is or how problematic it is. That is why, after a long period of reflection, reflection and debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concluded that it would be good for the substance committee to consider whether it would be possible to develop this draft law in the direction that it would be more certain to implement this paragraph, which is mentioned in paragraph 6(4), namely the promotion of gender equality, particularly in the field of employment, in terms of remuneration and other conditions of employment. Congressman Myllykoski asked how much anxiety there was. I don't really remember those feelings, I don't notice them, but everyone can answer them. Personally, I was not very anxious, but I thought it was an important debate, and I was glad that after a long debate, however, we found common wording, among other things, that when the government proposal states that it is ultimately a question of the choice of families as to how these parental or family leave are to be used, I received an addendum that part of it is a question of that. I used it as an example — I can tell you this, too, because you can refer your own speeches here, as Mr Meri said — whether a decision can be made in the family that, for the first child, the mother takes care of the breast-feeding and then, for the next child, the father takes care of the breast-feeding of the child. Well, these things are not for families to choose from, and because this is not the case — this has a biological background — we have maternity leave much longer than paternity leave. That is why this parental leave, when it is part of family leave, is performed differently and unequally in view of these starting points for the mother and father. This biological, self-evident starting point did not come to mind in the government negotiations when this Annex 6 was built. I think that the central government has made such a mistake here. I do not really believe that the centre has deliberately set out to build a government programme that strongly encourages mothers to move away from home to work earlier. Last season, we had the exact opposite debate and we heard a number of speeches about the centre in which such legislative proposals, which would have led in that direction, were severely held back. It is therefore partly a question of family choices, and statistics show that this surgery is now more targeted at women than at men, and in that way it is an unequal proposal. I asked the representative of the ministry there in the committee whether the model was being considered that this amount of parental leave should only be allocated to the actual parental leave and not to the period of paternity leave and maternity leave. That answer was of the kind that this is now a goal recorded in the Government Programme and that a bill has been written. That is why I think that although the Government Programme was made strategic and was intended to be loose and flexible and then here it will be specified how it is implemented, these details will then sometimes be so problematic that we will have to discuss such problems of equality. I do not think that encouraging work was a key factor in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u109	Mr President! I do not believe that there is a very good policy, that there should be a law first and, at the same time, that there will certainly be problems. And although there is information on how to correct the matter, no corrections will be made, because something has been recorded in the government programme, but it will then be stated that the impact will be assessed later. Equality should be a principle that is strictly adhered to in all legislative work rather than too loosely, but unfortunately for this government, equality issues seem to be just a sideline. This law is just one example of the fact that equality is not a red thread guiding government action. This is reflected, for example, in the total lack of gender impact assessment in many legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u110	Mr President! I now have to repeat what I said in that toilet that I am not prepared to accept the idea that this government is somehow committed to the fact that we do not care about equality between women and men, and we have somehow chosen a line that we do not care about. I think it's such a big argument, but if you want to keep saying it, then maybe it has a purpose too, I don't know. I don't accept that. I understand very well that in this situation of single parents and family perception we had the genuine concern that, in that debate in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, we also found that our family concept is old-fashioned. In this connection, the fact that this is such a thing that when the annual leave law is opened, it is good to look at this matter and to think more generally. After all, all laws must be followed, it does not mean that we are so perfect that we do not have to follow that the law is so perfect. There will never be such a perfect law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u111	The reply, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, and then we shall proceed with these next speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u112	Mr President! This is not about Mr Sea and his opinion, not at all. I believe that Mr Meri wants to work for equality. The question is what decisions are now being taken here in Parliament and what kind of legislative proposals are being made here. The legislative proposals that have come here have not had this gender impact assessment, and many of these legislative proposals lead to inequality. The only question is how to act here, not about the personal values of an individual MP or what he thinks about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u113	Yes, I am certainly not here to discuss what my values are. I am discussing the fact that we have many women, and I do not believe that our government will do so. Of course I am convinced that they do not want to discriminate against women, but I cannot speak here with dozens of people, but with my own voice. And yes, I represent my constituents here too, and I do not sit here as a private person just talking about my own business. Of course I speak of entities and represent the People's Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u114	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u115	Madam President! With his voice, Myllykoski also sings and does represent himself and his own opinions here in person. The voters will then assess whether the opinions are such that I can talk here about the ideas I have, that in that sense this democracy will work. But when Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen strongly criticised the fact that this monitoring is coming, I would like this government to be able to put in every piece of legislation that it has enacted, the final document of the committees' reports, that this will be seen in a few years' time, and preferably so that the future Parliament can then look at it and get its clarification in its hands and make the decisions that are fairer than the one that this government has now made in this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u116	Madam President! Usually, when a conscience - beating law is adopted, it is added to reassure us that this will be clarified later and, if necessary, amended. For so many years now, I have been able to read these explanations, which have then been made to reassure my conscience, that I would dare to say that the issues that are problematic in this law, at least not all, can be resolved in such a way that it can actually provide an objective solution to those issues. For example, the argument that this would encourage fathers to stay at home: If such an effect exists, it is so minimal and takes place in such an open, changing society that it is simply not possible to demonstrate its causal relationship. No such impact assessment can be made. In many other cases where impact assessments can be made, they are made by an individual official who is not trained in it and who does not do it for a living, and the results are unauthorizedly low so that nothing can be said about them. But we also have some good tools for assessing the gender impact of a law in advance, particularly in terms of gender issues. In my view, this government's reluctance and lack of interest in equality issues is primarily demonstrated by the fact that these instruments are not used, that there is no attempt to assess whether this has any effects on equality, whether this has an impact on gender inequalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u117	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski, we will probably agree on this, but I would like to clarify this further: The impact assessment must always be carried out twice. In other words, an ex ante impact assessment will be carried out during the drafting of the law, in which case it will be possible to avoid making foolish laws, at least in part. Then, after the law has been implemented, the ex-post evaluation will be carried out to see how this law has been implemented, whether corrective measures should be taken and how it works in society there. These two impact assessments are different and have different objectives. We need both. This government has failed not to carry out those ex ante impact assessments, but always records an ex post evaluation, which is of course important, but without prior evaluation there may be bad legislation that could be better done if ex ante evaluations were carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u118	Mr President! Yes, the determination of these financial benefits can have a great deal to do with what will be the relationship between the parent and the child. I myself, less than 30 years ago, when the firstborn was born to us, immediately after maternity leave became a parental leave user, because the daily allowance that I received from it would have been much higher than if my wife had turned to parental leave. For his part, when he just got into work, he was paid a much better salary than I would have had if I had continued working, that is to say, a win-win situation such as this because of the legislation. Representative The sea made a good, important point when talking about this overall reform of the annual holiday law. I think that the debate that has taken place here will, of course, remain in the minutes and documents and all the criticisms and comments that we have made in this connection, hopefully when this overall reform is being carried out, we will be able to consider these issues of equality and reasonable compensation and also the resources that will then be available.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u119	Mr President! Indeed, I too hope that this will be listened to by all those who can make a difference. It is true that our family concept has lived up to its time, because it is tied to the fact that people and parents have to live together, and unfortunately we have very different people, but it is an adult solution. Here Mr Kontula pointed out that he has been reading and following various reports here in Parliament for years, these clausuits or clauses there at the end where a good conscience is bought. Well, I have not been here to read them, nor have the People's Party of Finland been in the government so that I have no experience of buying a good conscience as a government party. All I can say about that is that perhaps if this has been the custom of the previous government, it is very unfortunate to buy a good conscience. I therefore believe that good politics and legislative work always involve following without such clauses. That's what we do here all the time. The world isn't ready. From some law, no matter how much research it has been done, you will find in practice that some problems are coming, it has not all been possible to take into account, some technical matter of Kela, which it could be at any time, some particular thing — of course it must be corrected if there are problems with such a thing. It is a good policy, legislative work and even life that the world is never ready: we will follow it without our individual commitment to follow it. I think it would be quite worrying if we always had to record separately that this is being followed up. Yeah, we're gonna have to follow these things without taking notes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u120	Madam President! I do not know whether Mr Meri is hearing badly or whether he is deliberately trying to misinterpret because it is easier to mean words that have been invented by himself than those that the other person has actually said. But also to this government's equality policy and its problems. In my opinion, one of the key mechanisms for producing the bad gender effects is that the big lines are drawn in these all-male panels, where men are present, either entirely or solely, and I am not just talking about the government, but there are often just men at the social partners' tables. And when these big lines determine what is being done in the ministries or here in the political b-chain and where women can be involved, these big lines defined by men often lead to solutions that do not take into account those aspects that are somehow special to women. I have observed many times in this Chamber that our leading male politicians are astounded by many things that are often commonplace for us women. It is a purely such mechanism, which would be quite easy to deal with by the fact that where decisions are primarily taken, women and women are also present at the level that is being implemented there. All I saw was a tip to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u121	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u122	Mr President! This is a question of my bill, and I will explain what it is about. First, however, it should be noted that sobriety is a good choice, and civilised moderate consumption by alcohol users is a good choice. Instead of increasing alcohol consumption, this bill aims to encourage the public to become more civilised and socialised and to ease the burden on organisers of cultural events. I am sorry, I have a mild flu, but I hope that the vote will be made clear anyway. Mr President! In Finland, alcoholic beverages may not be consumed at public events, even when allowed by the organiser and the police on their own behalf. Prior to 2013, the Act on Alcohol, Assembly and Order was interpreted regionally differently in such a way as to place emphasis on the Alcohol Act in other areas and the Act on Orders in others. In this case, the practice of own drinking binding public events was not uniform. In 2014, following Valvira’s remark, the application of the Alcohol Act was harmonised throughout the country to comply with Article 58(3) of the Alcohol Act, which provides for a ban on the consumption of public events. The article has been in force in the same spirit since 32 C.E. Time and spirit have changed significantly in 80 years, but the ban on eating at public events has remained in place. In the bill I submitted and signed by 22 other MPs, it is proposed that Article 58(3) of the Alcohol Act be repealed. The assembly law and the law of order still remain in force, both of which allow the police and organisers to either allow or prohibit their own drinking in public events. So the legislator would not deny this in a forward-looking and categorical way, because the local players are best acquainted with their territory and are familiar with the events that are at stake here and will be able to assess whether or not it is appropriate to bring their own lunches to this event. Mr President! The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health’s Alcohol Act’s review report for 2013 suggests that the ban on consumption of the current alcohol law would be transferred to the assembly law. Expert opinions in the media have supported the complete abolition of the ban on public events and the decision to allow your own drinks is left to the organiser and the police. Article 23 of the Assembly Act provide that the organiser and the police are entitled to prohibit the possession of intoxicating substances at a public meeting or public event. Article 4 of the Orders Act on the other hand, allows intoxicating substances to be consumed in the park or in a comparable public place, in such a way as to prevent or unduly impede the right of others to use the site for their intended purpose, as well as the presence and behaviour associated with them. In this respect, the assembly and order law is appropriate and sufficient to define restrictions on the consumption of alcoholic beverages at public events. Where, in the view of the police, other people present do not suffer harm from drinking alcoholic beverages, it should be possible, if the organiser so wishes, to allow the public to have their own drinks also at a public event. Mr President! The purpose of this bill is not to allow your own drinks at all festivals. It is not appropriate, or in any way meaningful, to allow your own drinks to be allowed at large festivals, especially those that are popular with young people, which already have a problem with substance abuse. For other festivals, sales of their own alcohol may be a significant source of income. Also, not all festivals want to allow their own drinks, because in addition to cultural experience they want to offer first-class food or drink experiences, for example. There may be other arguments. All the above options and other reasons for banning own drinks are fully valid and, even after the legislative amendment, completely possible. The organisers and the police would still be able to decide on their own best alcohol policy at each event, i.e. the assessment being local and in accordance with the spirit of the event. The very essence of the bill is that the legislator, we here, do not pre-empt and categorically prohibit our own drinks at public events. On the contrary, the bill would free local actors, cultural organisers, municipalities and the police to jointly reflect on the development of culture, industry and security in their own region. We can well assume that, for each event, local actors in cooperation know best where alcohol fits and where it does not. And of course, the public can decide for themselves whether to take their own lunch or not. If you don't want to, you really don't have to. This also makes it possible to import, for example, nonalcoholic beverages. I hear they're riding them now, too, when the situation is what it is. If anyone wants to bring Mehukat, they say they've knocked these down. Mr President, there is no reason to assume that the public will put considerable pressure on the organisers to allow their own drinks, even if the law changes in that respect. This was not the case before 2014. According to a study by the Ministry of Education and Culture, cultural actors feel that the legislation on alcohol consumption and alcohol consumption is burdensome and burdensome. This bill may lower the threshold for organisers to organise community free events, for example, where the energy of organisers does not go to combating hidden bottles, but to create a relaxed and perhaps intelligent joint existence. For this reason, Finland should liberalise alcohol legislation in this respect and facilitate the operating conditions of cultural operators and business by reducing unnecessary regulation and dismantling outdated standards. In this respect, the law should therefore be possible rather than restricting the possibilities. Mr President! It seems that the Finnish alcohol culture is changing and perhaps even smarter. Young people drink less and adults are more civilized, this is good. Cultural events will be enjoyed in leisure and culture, not in drunken celebrations. In many cases, allowing your own wine to be enjoyed by a blanket during lunch increases the comfort of the public and encourages Finns to become more civilized in the alcohol culture. So I'm talking about the people who want to drink. Not everyone wants to, and that's a good thing. It is much more meaningful to drink alcohol calmly during lunchtime with a blanket and not in a separate stall by a pint, which is what the situation is now. It is also the case that Finnish consumption of alcohol should be steered away from the loneliness of homes towards a more social and, consequently, a more likely reduction in alcohol consumption. Mr President! Indeed, the possibility of deciding on own local drinks, which is the subject of a bill, has been found to be a good practice. Some picnic-like summer festivals followed the practice allowing their own drinks for decades until Valvira made the point I mentioned a few years ago. The festivals were thus forced to change their well-functioning practices and, for example, to limit an even larger part of the festival area to liquor use, even though there were hardly any alcohol-related disruptions in these events. Traditionally, these festivals, such as Pori Jazz and Järvenpää Parkblues, have been among the ten biggest festivals in Finland. Festivals held, events held. Due to the new operating model, depending on the festival, the public loss has been large, even threatening, in some places. There have also been indications that drunkenness has even increased in these festivals since alcohol moved to the drinking area away from the more commoner and more communal picnic spirit. At the same time, hops that are stronger than the gate before their rapture or undergarments are hidden stronger wines for consumption in the area, as reported. This is not the direction in which alcohol behaviour should be taken. Pori Jazz and Parkblues have been excellent examples of how good cooperation between local police and festival organizers can also mean both permissive, peaceful and successful festivals, even if their own drinks are allowed. Of course, there is room for a rotten apple in every basket, but most of the festivals I mentioned were pleasant for both wine and Mehukatti. Mr President! Finally, the number of tickets sold by Finnish festivals and the number of visitors to free events has grown significantly for years. At the same time, festivals are both a huge community resource and a significant cultural and economic boost to many locations. The repeal of the outdated ban on the enjoyment of public events will improve the self-determination of new and old cultural actors and encourage local actors to develop the culture of their region in good cooperation with the authorities. At the same time, an alcohol culture is created that revolves around being together and enjoying civilized culture, not around intoxication or drunkenness. Mr President! I hope that this bill will win the wind and be incorporated into the overall reform of the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u123	A few replies will be made here, Mr Jalonen will be taken first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u124	Mr President! This bill was already on the table last season, and thank Mrs Kaikonen for persevering in this work, which has already been done together in the last period. Indeed, this came up when Pori Jazz was forced to make a change, and, as Mrs Kaikonen said there, the Jazzes have never really had any alcohol problems of any kind, they have not really been intoxicated in the picture at all, and the festival has been in spirit from the baby to the grandfathers. Yes, since the prams there have been people there, and everyone has been able to fit in. Well, now that this failed steering has been carried out, there have been first problems, and this is an excellent example of what is being done with the current strict alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u125	The answers continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u126	Madam President! As a signatory and in favour of the bill, it is also easy to agree with what Mr Läälonen said about the Pori Jazzs. Since that Valvira decision when you visited the area, I have never seen as many drunks at this festival as I did at that time. Of course, I do not quite agree with Mr Jalos that there would sometimes be a bit too many people there, but about the early concerts of the afternoons in the Kirjurinluoto, I have to say that they were continental-European-like, pleasant events, where there were also areas of indulgence, but people came with their families and spent time together, and in that sense I am very sympathetic and hopeful that this overall reform would be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u127	Madam President! Mr Kaikonen is certainly on a good side here. In Finland, we have far too little culture of this kind, where we are relaxed and naturally favoured by music and culture, and these events, which have been mentioned in this initiative, have indeed been historically fine and significant in this sense that they have brought generations and families together, friends' circles together for a picnic for good music and culture. I myself have seen the very same phenomenon as the previous speakers that this new interpretation of regulation has now led to waiting in line there in the drinking area, and that music is actually not so well heard, much of it is missing out on life and experience. I really hope that this issue will finally be able to move forward in this period and that this interpretation will be in line with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u128	I will give you three more answers, and then I will give you the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u129	Madam President! It has sometimes been said that music is good and a girl or boy is beautiful, but I have to say that our alcohol culture has developed in those festivals, and you can rightly ask whether Finnish festivals will be ruined by bans. They're about to say no to having fun. Just like that from an artist’s point of view, I can say that it is much better for us to have such a picnic culture, where people really enjoy alcohol there with blankets and lunches. I've been to the Pori Jazzs myself, for example, with a nice party like this several times, and now that I have to go there for a beer board, it's a pretty tricky thing, and really that's where it can happen that it's even more violent, unlike Valvira's purpose, it's gone the other way. The park blues in Järvenpää is also one such good event, which I would like to see more free and local entrepreneurs be able to decide for themselves. Moreover, I believe that drinking alcohol should be controlled in such a smart way that it is not so much home drink as it is more where culture itself is enjoyed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u130	Madam President! In this initiative, Mr Kaikonen encourages Finns to adopt European consumer habits and social co-existence, and this is a well-supported starting point in this direction. It is hoped that alcohol consumption and this kind of festival culture will develop, and promising features, especially for young people, are observed, and it is hoped that we are not yet a lost generation in that respect. During the last parliamentary term, efforts were made to reform the alcohol law as a whole, it was short, and now the work will continue during this parliamentary term. I myself am in favour and I am counting on people's ability to choose, to think about it, but the experience shows that it is not entirely reliable in all respects, and I will come back to this in more detail in my speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u131	Mr President! As a complement to the fact that of course these individual cases were before, that was a little too much taken, but it was very rarely and specifically in these arena gigs, what such a picnic event is. But, indeed, after this ban on the import of alcoholic beverages, the situation even got so bad that I know people who were turned away from the gate because of too much drunken space. So there was so much ground taken that we could not even get to the area, and indeed this spirit of the picnic concert moment, the opportunity of a cultural event, has changed. Now is the time to correct this mistake and to make this correction in the context of the overall reform of alcohol policy, even though Mr Kaikkonen's
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u132	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u133	Madam President! When the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs takes the initiative on internal policy and alcohol policy, which is of high value to parliamentary work, it must also be very seriously assessed, as has been the case with this initiative by Mrs Kaikkonen. It is very timely and is linked to the overall reform of the alcohol law, and I warmly support it, as was the case with other speeches here. It is this finely pronounced phrase in the middle that describes this situation: "The Finnish alcohol culture is changing: young people drink less and adults drink more civilizedly. Cultural events will be enjoyed in leisure and culture, not in drunken celebrations. Allowing your own wine to be enjoyed by the blanket while eating increases the comfort of the public and encourages Finns to become more civilized in their alcohol culture." Here's what's going on inside. This is, of course, linked to the overall reform of our alcohol law, in that it is now very timely and should be implemented. In view of the preliminary report by Minister Rehula on this new legislation, we must remember that there are some frames within which we must move. The first frame of work is a government agreement which, during this term of government, binds it at its borders: the Alko monopoly must be maintained. The second, of course, is the health policy highlighted by many experts. Within these limits, we must also move and look at secular practice, where our tax money is moving and where it could be saved. This is reflected more extensively in the reform of this law in the way we deal with alcohol policy. In my opinion, modern man is so civilized and manners have changed that I would accept the sale of strong beer in the retail market and welcome the sale of farm wine and small brewery beer from that establishment. On the other hand, the wine does not fit in with the category we are committed to in the Government Programme, nor does the Alko have excellent, fine wine selections. I'd keep them at the liquor store, at the Alko, not on the shelves of S and K in a few boxes of wine. This is today’s culture in such a way that a modern person does feel, how and how he wants to. We want to move on to mildness and we want to move within these limits. When you watch how depressing it is to look at Finnish strong beers that are towed from ships that have been taken abroad and driven back to Finland to drink in a depressing way, why not buy them at the village store and therefore not go to Tallinn and get drunk on the way, when we get there? This is quite inappropriate to the present day. But what Mrs Kaikkonen and many others have said here, in the light of the arguments that have been put forward here, is exactly what I warmly support. After all, in every party here in Parliament we have a slightly unequal attitude towards alcohol policy and wine and wine, but increasingly the public opinion has become wider, and the more we travel and see other worlds, not just in Europe, the more Finns today behave as they have seen elsewhere in the world. As far as these concerts are concerned: It is quite disturbing if, for example, you sit there with family or other good friends and enjoy your own wine, as you always go there to the stall where you sell that liquor, back and forth. There is no such thing as enjoying culture and good music. I think this is a good initiative, and let us hope for a pass.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u134	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Kaikkonen for this initiative, which is quite clearly drafted in a mature way and which takes into account both the Finnish history, the few trends in the future and the desirable prospects in which we all hope that alcohol issues will develop in this country. I am looking a little further at this overall reform of the alcohol law. Of course, this initiative by Mrs Kaikkonen is, in her own way, very closely related to it. The aim is to facilitate the operating conditions of the business community. One part of it is cultural events, festivals, as has been the case with this initiative. That is very welcome. I am in favour of a reduction in the provisions of an overly strict norm. For example, provisions on customer service in restaurants can certainly be made easier in some respects. Now that this overall reform of the alcohol law is approaching, we have been very much informed, lobated and I have felt some kind of ferociousness in a positive and somewhat negative sense. With regard to these facts, I would like to raise a few points. Direct costs of alcohol to society are estimated at around EUR 1.3 billion, and if indirect costs are included in accidents, absenteeism, illness, premature deaths, acts of violence, so on, the cost is between EUR 5 and EUR 7 billion. Looking back on the statistics, it has always been so if the economy thinks that the rise in consumption is directly linked to the increase in costs, that is, to the cost to society. Against that background, we must consider very carefully what kind of changes we are prepared to take. Changes need to be made, but I would be in the light of the experiences that Finland has, in such a way as to refrain from making too rapid changes, so that there is no reason to go once and for all. Alcohol culture and our consumption patterns are slowly evolving. They are developing in a good direction, as has been said many times here," Juhantalo said. If access is changed in a single European direction, it does not mean that our consumer behaviour becomes a one-off southern European. That is why, for example, I have reservations about the idea of making liqueurs or wines available in retail stores, in grocery stores. It is a rather hard step that, with a very high probability, leads to an increase in consumption. In 69 C.E., when middle beer was imported into grocery stores, there was research in the background and the idea was that medium beer would replace bright consumption. Unfortunately, this did not happen. What happened? Clear consumption remained unchanged and the consumption of medium beer was overturned, and consumption just exploded. We cannot afford such changes. I would like to highlight the status of the Alko. If wine comes to grocery stores, it will inevitably mean that Alko will have to cut the 350-store network drastically. We have an excellent network of alcohol stores, expert staff, a selection of thousands of wines and other products. If sales are transferred to grocery stores and Alko's stores are reduced, consumption options will be limited. So to sum up: calm changes, the direction is right, but not to go too fast with changes because the risks are really great. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u135	Madam President! I was going to settle for a two-minute speech from that seat, but when Mr Kiuru opened the back door too, a few other speeches on alcohol policy will have to be made. I regret that I pulled my own small brewery-retail law initiative out of this debate when I thought that last one was going to be so long that I would be late for a meeting. I am very pleased with this in-depth and good initiative, which Mrs Kaikonen has taken, and I really hope that, in the context of the overall reform of the alcohol law, this will be dealt with with with all seriousness. I would have liked the Council of Presidents to have put this also on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, and why not, because it is the police that plays a central role as one of the players — to which Mr Kaikkonen strongly refers in his own legislative initiative, that the local organiser and the police can jointly act — it would have been a good thing to deal with this in the Committee on Administrative Affairs as well. But particularly this has an economic connection, and in that sense I would like to see that, when we are discussing alcohol policy in the future — and I have at least given the President and the previous Secretary-General my wish and positive light — it is essential to ask the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for opinions on these matters, which are related to alcohol policy at the time of the reform of its legislation. In particular, the share of primary production: we already have only the contracting farmers in Altia for 50,000 hectares in the country that produces and small brewery production is a particularly important part. There is absolutely no reason for us to deny the meanings of the disadvantages. There is no way we can escape them, and I have sensed that we should not now suffocate this in such a way that we only have the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to decide on our alcohol policy in this country. Yes, it is the right of this Parliament and the various committees of experts to bring their views into the whole culture and the whole alcohol policy, because it also has other implications. I would not go to break down or endanger the monopoly position of the Alko, I am sure it is important for us, but I agree with what has been said above that, for example, small breweries should be given a resale right up to 9.5% and they should be removed from them and that these kiosks should have their own entrances. Let's make it more functional, easier so that it also affects the industry, and I don't think a drunk-seeking Finn is going to buy strong beer from a small brewery. No wonder you're gonna see that. It would be touristically there even if the small brewery in the heart of Savo, which could be one of the attractive destinations of tourism in the region. And what is more wonderful than the fact that at some point, for example, we might wonder if small breweries with a restaurant have the opportunity to sell there to some limited extent. And now that I have come to this podium, I must say that it is hoped that, although there are no Social Democrats in the Chamber who are particularly opposed to the drop in VAT on alcohol in restaurants, that we could have this debate in a developing sense, because I think that alcohol consumed in the restaurant is better than drinking at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u136	Mr President! Indeed, the subject is so inspiring that this epidemic of talking to the toilet is beginning to spread. Mr President! Indeed, we live in Finland with red tape and bans, and we should move towards a time when different situations and practices could be more flexiblely taken into account, and I believe, like Mr Kaikkonen, that local actors and organisers of events should be consulted and have the best ability to assess how alcoholic beverages are suited to different opportunities. In that sense, this initiative, which is now on the table, is very good. More discretion would be given to those who organise events, how they are implemented and how they are done. We have a good and effective law of order, Article 4 of which, as stated in this initiative, allows intoxicating substances to be consumed in the park or in a comparable public place, in such a way as to prevent or unduly impede the right of others to use the site for their purpose. In addition, we have the assembly law, Article 23 of which: provide that organisers and the police are entitled to prohibit the possession of intoxicating substances at a public meeting or public event. These regulations are therefore very good, even now, without this provision of the alcohol law, to deal with the situation in such a way that problems can be overcome or consumption can be limited. Paragraph 58(3) of this proposal states that the consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in an apartment or other place where a public event has been organised, but is followed by a sentence which also refers to the content of this Act of Organization and Assembly. It is stated here that the police, when it is necessary to maintain public order, can prohibit the consumption of alcoholic beverages in public places, and it would be all right to keep this in the context of the alcohol law, which would make a direct reference to these organisation laws and the assembly law. After all, we have had quite a general debate, especially in the run-up to the previous elections, about the time for a crack at standards, and there was some use of such a saying that against a single new standard two old ones should be dismantled during this period, and this would be a very good standard to be dismantled, this section of the Alcohol Act. As Mr Juhani said, the matter is also topical, and it was gratifying to hear Mr Juhantalo's view that the centre also has a willingness to increase the strength limit for beverages sold in retail stores and, as he said, this change would indeed facilitate the distribution of small brewery products and the position of domestic producers, and therefore domestic trade could better compete against passenger imports. I personally believe that raising the limit of strength to, for example, the level of strong beer would be a good start. I hope that agreement will now be reached on this matter in the reform of the alcohol law so that it can be implemented in this period. This alcohol law involves a wide range of issues, perhaps even a little crazy. One such thing has been a matter that has plagued us on the border. We have an Altia factory there, where since 1963 there has been a liquor museum that has been completely closed to the public because alcohol law prevents the public from getting there. However, it has changed the interpretation of the avi so that it can be opened to the public, but it still has problems with advertising and indirect advertising in relation to the fact that it is not possible to display any of these bottles or packages of products related to alcohol. I believe that this too is an issue which could now be changed by legislation so that, in the case of the liquor museum, such exceptions could be allowed. Of course, if you want to, you can still keep the age limit of 18 years there, but I think that too is perhaps a little pretentious today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u137	Madam President! I certainly support this initiative by Mrs Kaikkonen. Indeed, I have not written it under, but I am so spiritually in favour of it, and it is precisely the dismantling of standards where we should be able to move forward with these festivals. Some people have even boycotted those festivals now because of this ban on liquids, and it is quite sad that infant formulas and juices have been collected at the festivals. In that sense, I wish you luck with this bill. However, as far as alcohol policy is concerned, I do of course think that these strong beers and farm beers should also be made more visible in shops, but I would not in itself break the Alko monopoly, for example, with regard to wines. I myself am a wine enthusiast, thanks to my conscious wife in this field, and I must say that Systembolaget and Alko have the best selections in the world. I have noticed that many of the wine selections are very limited there. They are very local in general there, and in Finland a small merchant is not able to maintain such wine selections, perhaps more so. But it would be a pity, and it would also be a bad thing for regional policy, if Alko had to cut down on this network of stores, and in that sense it is important for it to remain. Otherwise, I must say that there are good, professional people working there. As far as restaurants are concerned, I am of course of the opinion that the alga in the restaurant sector could be reduced in terms of these drinks, so that people would prefer to have that alcohol at the restaurant and not to get there with the hard bottoms. Finally, Mr President, I would like to speak on my own behalf and on behalf of many artists. I hope that no extension will be given to restaurants unless there is that live music, as has been the case at the moment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u138	Madam President! It is very nice that people who understand real culture have stayed here to discuss this important issue. I think that excellent, good speeches have been used here in a variety of ways, Mrs Myllykoski from that very station wagon perspective, and I also agree with Mr Kiuru's point of view that there is no desire for major changes here and that we cannot suddenly make such changes in Finland's alcohol policy. The fact that strong beer can be imported into the market is, in my opinion, a move that is possible, but in relation to the cultural peace that I have already mentioned, the content of the Government Programme and our health policy, this must be done in such a way that wines and spirits remain in the liquor store, under Alko's control. The attitude towards alcohol policy varies not only from party to party but also from region to region. The representative of Alatalo now went away; he is a wine lover; I represent the region where the traditional drink is the rain. Everywhere the barley has spread, the culture of the sun around the globe has spread to the limits of its cultivation, as well as in Finland. But in that time of some time, there was a great variety of awakening sprawls spreading in Finland, and one of their sites was to suppress this then sax culture, and only South Hame and the northern Satakunta were brave enough to preserve that Saxon culture. I happen to be the president of the Saxon Association at Kankaanpää and a multiple factor in it. What was referred to here is that it is precisely because of our alcohol policy, which is so distorted, that our attitude at different occasions varies, whether it is allowed to take the rain, or whether it is allowed to drink the sax, or whether it is required to ask the police for permission, and at what moose festival and at what family party it is allowed to be displayed. After all, we have the Saxon in every family party, part of the voluntary work and part of being in a haystack, it's natural, but when you go to the Southern Satakunta, for example, like a representative. Myllykoski well knows, and there talking about the saws and the culture of the night is far removed. They think it's some kind of scream. After all, the saffron is a spirit drink for beer, like about 8%. You don't drink it the way you drink it, you take it out of it and you fight it. You enjoy it civilizedly and you talk nice. My feet are a little wobbly if you sit on a bench for a long time when suddenly you start to move. But, among other things, there are traditional dishes in various operators, and even in Kankaanpää, we have a rustavelli, a sheep violin and a sax, which is a rare traditional food in Finland, probably the only one. But it describes the way in which alcohol and alcohol politics are traditionally viewed. It would be hoped that thanks to this excellent initiative by Mr Kaikkonen, more of us here would understand how it would be good to direct Finns as a whole to mild, peaceful drinks and good events, good company. This is just as much about culture — music culture, customs culture, culture in general — when we talk about drinking alcohol in the way Mr Kaikkonen's initiative means. I'm very much in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u139	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski raised this issue in committee. At least in the context of the overall reform of the alcohol law, it is worth taking into account the Committee on Education as a rapporteur, because culture, and hence festivals and cultural events, are an essential part of the role of the Committee on Culture. I will return to that role and role of Alko in Finnish society. The start pays dividends to the Finnish State from EUR 40 to EUR 50 million each year. It's worth keeping in mind. If the number of stores were to decrease by nearly 300, it would also mean a reduction in dividends income for the State and, of course, a loss of jobs. As far as the supply of alcohol is concerned, I would like to point out that Alko has significantly increased the supply of non-alcoholic beverages on its shelves and a good alcohol culture also includes the availability of non-alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-03-ps-18.u142	Mr President! The last bottle I bought from Alko was a bottle of non-alcoholic wine, but I admit that I have also bought alcoholic wine there. But it also describes this small cultural change, which contributes to the fact that there is a growing demand for them too. I could have opinions on these other issues, which has been in the debate, but perhaps in many respects they are related to the overall reform of the alcohol law, and then we will discuss it in greater depth. But I would like to warmly thank the honourable Members for their excellent contributions this evening. I am almost overwhelmed by this kind of warm reception for this initiative. This is not a revolution, not even a major change, but rather a rather small change in legislation that would restore the old practice that the three festivals had. Mr Kiuru raised these problems with alcohol, and that was quite right. We have a high cost to society of alcohol abuse. Many Finns have problems, many have people close to them who have problems with alcohol. This is all true. Are the bans, the restriction of access, taxation, and the only means for this big picture? Surely there is a basis for them too, and to a certain extent all these things are needed, but I personally see that in the longer term, however, the right answer is to influence that culture. It is difficult, it is certainly slow, but it is nevertheless worth going in that direction to try to restore this alcohol culture in a civilised way. And when we have these few successes in this area too, such as these old practices in the Park Blues of Järvenpää or the Pori Jazzs, let us learn from these few successes that we have in alcohol policy, in alcohol culture, and give them a chance again and address the issues where there are problems with alcohol.
