ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u1	Carl Haglund, who has been relieved of his duties, must be replaced by a member of the Committee on the Future and the Nordic Council delegation to Finland. The supplementary elections of the Future Committee and the Nordic Council delegation to Finland will be held at the plenary session on Thursday, 8 September 2016. Candidate lists must be submitted to the central office by Thursday 8 September 2016 at 1 pm.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u2	The 23rd item in the order of business is the statement by the Assistant Ombudsman, Ms Maija Sakslin, of her interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u3	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. Let's move on to the debate and start with Minister Lindström, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u4	Madam President! This government proposal would reform the legislation on the tendering procedure for public procurement. The proposals contained in the proposal aim to improve the efficiency of the use of public funds and to simplify the procurement procedure by providing more information to the users on the content of the rules and, for example, on environmental and social aspects. In addition, the aim is to increase the flexibility of calls for tender by extending the possibilities of negotiating and taking into account innovation aspects. It is also intended to contribute to the objective mentioned in the Government Programme of increasing the share of innovative procurement in public procurement. Participation in public procurement procedures has proved increasingly challenging, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the reasons for this has been the increase in the size of procurement and the administrative burden of tendering for companies and other tenderers. The Government's proposal seeks to address these problems by encouraging purchasers to distribute procurement into smaller and more suitable parts for SMEs. Efforts will also be made to reduce the administrative burden by reducing the number of studies required of tenderers during the tendering procedure. The aim is to improve the flexibility of invitations to tender and reduce the administrative burden resulting from the invitation to tender by raising national thresholds for the application of the law. The national threshold for supplies and services would be doubled from EUR 30000 to EUR 60000. In the case of social and health care contracts, the threshold would increase from EUR 100,000 to EUR 400000. It is intended that public procurement of a low value should not unduly involve the resources of public authorities and companies in the process of the tendering mechanism. The proposal aims to further increase transparency in procurement and to reduce corruption in public procurement. More extensive access to the criminal records of the managers and managers of the tenderers and other registers of the authorities would be opened to the purchasers. The enforcement of procurement law by the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority could be better addressed in cases of unlawful non-competitive procurement. The aim is to ensure fair competition between public and private businesses by restricting the ability of companies and entities owned by general government to carry out activities supported by the acquisition of owners on the market. In the preparation of procurement legislation, much has been discussed about the quality of procurement, particularly in the field of social and health service procurement. Stakeholders and citizens have had legitimate concerns as to whether the wishes of service users are adequately taken into account when awarding public contracts. The draft law therefore stresses the importance of taking account of quality aspects of procurement and the consultation of users, particularly in the field of social and health care procurement. Moreover, the draft law does not force public authorities to outsource services for people with disabilities through competitive tendering procedures, for example, but public authorities can provide the service themselves without competitive tendering, or the choice of the service provider can be entrusted to the service user, so that no competitive tendering is required. — Briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u5	Let us take a few speeches from that list and then move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u6	Mr President! First of all, thank the Minister for a good introduction and at least partly for a good draft law. But like the whole of Finland, the procurement law also needs ambition. The size of public procurement is considerable: we are talking about some EUR 30 billion. The Procurement Act has been reformed in the past, it has been praised and insulted in the past. Now it is being reformed again. The procurement law already in force makes much possible, but its possibilities have not been used in the way that would have been possible. So it is not just a question of thresholds or price. It is a question of overall competence to prepare, compete and implement procurement in such a way that it serves not only the subscriber but also Finnish expertise, its development and even the regional economy and even Finnish jobs. It is therefore a question of Finnish companies in particular and of small businesses in particular, as Minister Lindström rightly said. But too often small ones get caught up in the back when big entities are being competed for. The Procurement Act is, as we know, a code of conduct and its implementation, as I said, requires a lot of expertise from the contractor, the contracting entity. We have expertise in Finland, but when you look at what really happens in procurement, you can tell that there is a lot to develop. In particular, municipalities have identified the fact that acquisitions must be invested in and either trained to make their own experts or to acquire knowledge from outside. Smart government, smart municipalities know how to make purchases intelligently. Mr President! Finland lags behind EU developments in procurement. The EU is directing public procurement more and more in the direction that quality matters, but price alone is not the answer. In addition, emphasis will be placed on social and environmental aspects and workers' rights. Finland is known in the world for its quality in the past. Made in Finland, made in Finland — something we have all been proud of. But now, in the last few years, something has happened. We all know what kind of work has been done in Finnish municipalities, for example, in the construction of schools or kindergartens. So there is much to be done. I do not want to point out or accuse any individual operator, but much depends on the agreements that have been concluded between the subscriber and the supplier. If we want Finnish expertise to continue to be an export product, then we must ensure that public procurement also invests in the word 'quality' — of course also in terms of price. It is always an overall assessment that a smart buyer can make if there is will and knowledge. Mr President! In many respects, the government's proposal represents the EU's mandatory minimum level. When the EU gives Finland room for manoeuvre here too, why are we not using it? In this respect, the government's proposal is unambitious and old-fashioned. On the basis of price alone, competitive tendering is still a free choice option. Mr President! A lot of investment has been made in municipalities. One such sector is waste management, the other is occupational health. With restrictions on In-house operations, the Government will significantly reduce the freedom of action and the opportunities for municipalities to organise their operations in an appropriate way. In-house operations and related limited sales are the means for municipalities and other public operators to organise their activities in the most appropriate way possible and to serve the residents best. Why should it be Finland that restricts the operating possibilities of municipalities so strictly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u7	Mr President! The objectives of the draft procurement law are very good and worthy of support, and the draft law is broadly in the right direction. This law is very important, as public procurement costs more than 30 billion dollars a year, so procurement principles are important for the economy as a whole and for society as a whole. I would like to highlight a few aspects which we hope will be taken into account in the committee's deliberations and the need for legislation to be cooled down. In Finland, the EU is often accused of creating unnecessary bureaucracy and rigid procedures, even if the perpetrator is closer — and so this time too. The EU Procurement Directive makes it possible for Member States to have considerably higher procurement thresholds than the government is now proposing. Fortunately, threshold values are proposed to be increased in the current law, but it would make sense to use the margin allowed by the EU to benefit more widely. There is no strong reason why Finland needs separate additional national regulations and lower national thresholds. The higher thresholds allowed by the EU would reduce administrative costs and allow contracting entities to take better account of the supply of small businesses and the individual needs of customers. Another unnecessary national rigidity contained in the bill is the overly strict criteria for the so-called in-house units. According to the Directive, it is possible for a contracting entity to purchase goods and services without a competitive procedure from a tied entity controlled by it if the tied entity operates on the market and sells out up to 20 % of its activities. In the draft law, however, it is proposed that the limit is briskly lower than the EU limit, which is only 5%. In practice, this applies, for example, to the operations of the municipality and its subsidiaries. When the government proposal is implemented, it will mean major difficulties for municipal waste companies, for example, which also sell some services to private individuals, especially in sparsely populated areas where private services markets are underdeveloped. When implemented, the very low 5% limit will cause significant difficulties for municipalities and joint municipal authorities, and there is no real need for this proposed additional Finnish regulation. The second problem in the draft law concerns the responsibility of procurement. According to the survey, about 80 per cent of Finns believe that tax money should not be used to obtain products that have been produced using child labour or violated workers' rights. However, this is not sufficiently reflected in the draft law as it does not require contracting entities to be bound by social responsibility and human rights. Under the Directive, compliance with the social clause could be made mandatory if desired. In addition, the discretionary application of the social clause is limited to work in Finland, which does not serve the overall objectives of the legislative reform and does not promote the competitive position of responsible domestic production. Minimum social, environmental and labour law requirements should not be limited to discretionary criteria of the nature of a recommendation, but automatically applicable and binding criteria. In particular, it would be in the interests of honest Finnish entrepreneurs if companies that use unethical practices were automatically excluded from competitions. The bill continues to allow goods and services to be acquired on the basis of price alone. We know from the existing law that the use of CSR criteria has not progressed sufficiently on a mere voluntary basis, so now would be the right time to change the law so that the authorities should not use only the cheapest price as the sole source of supply. In this context, it should also be examined in depth how the procurement law can better contribute to the fight against the shadow economy and aggressive tax planning. It cannot be that the euro of goods purchased with tax money is falling into the shadow economy and Finnish entrepreneurs who pay taxes honestly lose out on tenders. Particular attention should be paid to non-compliance in subcontracting chains and tax evasion and the potential and obligations of the contracting entity to address them. Finally, lifelong services for disabled people should be explicitly excluded from the application of the procurement law. The application of the Procurement Act to these services has led to inhumane situations. Although it is a matter of life-long services, such as housing, they are awarded for short term contracts. Such auctioning should no longer be allowed to continue, but, like many other EU countries, Finland should also exclude these services from the scope of the Procurement Act. Mr President! More ambition is needed for a good bill as such.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u8	Now's the time to go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u9	Mr President! Good legislation as such, but a few things I would like to draw attention to. There are quite a few restrictions on the sale out of these in-house units, i.e. the local authorities' own production, compared to that EU regulation. Twenty per cent, which is possible, will go to five per cent according to the government's proposal. I do not understand the logic of limiting the freedom of action of the public sector in this respect, and I would ask for an answer. From my point of view, on the basis of this international report, which is included in this bill, there is no international dimension, as it were, to restrict this freedom of action by another country. The second point that I am raising here is that we have now gone through the minimum level of protection of the minimum level of collective agreements, i.e. in terms of central government procurement and works, in accordance with ILO agreements, but why is it not desirable to take into account the provisions required by the EU Procurement Directive at this stage and to define that all these contracts must ensure that the minimum level of protection of collective agreements is respected?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u10	Madam President! This confusion as to whether there is any desire to complicate the activities of the municipalities: With regard to the thresholds, I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for raising the thresholds, so that all the smaller ones can be concluded there within the municipality and with close entrepreneurs. But then this in-house activity goes a lot tighter, because now that the practice has been in it at about 10%, it is now being tightened up to 5%. It is known that the municipalities are already in a situation when they are not even able to stand up to the throwing during the year, that it will snap quite quickly when you look at the whole thing. Why does the government want to ruin the situation in the municipalities? The second question, then, is this: when this freedom of choice comes in this social and regional reform, after which everyone will choose in a completely new way, is there no longer a need for a procurement law in social and health care?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u11	Madam President! It is a good thing that the procurement law is being reformed, specifically in the direction of making the procurement procedure more flexible. There, of course, during the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, when this issue is being discussed, there will probably be changes in this area, and I hope that the point of view will always be to try to involve those small businesses in those procurements. Of course, the decisive factor is always the tendering process, how it is organised and what conditions it is subject to. It is the proper and careful construction of the invitation to tender that is everything a and o. After that, if it gets on the right track, it can be successful, but if it's done wrong, then it'll be just a wolf for the whole thing. But I hope that this law will give these small companies more scope for action, and precisely so that the large companies will not be able to control the market, because they will be able to overturn such a small company, even if they offer a service at a very cheap price that a small private company will never be able to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u12	Mr President! Now Mr Hoskonen has reached the heart of the matter. We in this Chamber often have a time, perhaps even a small amount of money we sometimes argue about, but now it is good to remember that the decisions that are being taken now have a very big economic impact: 30 billion every year. Based on experience, and when you listen on different sides, you can say that the biggest problem with procurement is that you only compete at the price. It is often then that these small businesses are left behind, because there are quality factors, there is social responsibility, often when services, innovation, are purchased nearby. Now I ask you, Minister: is it true that this law still allows competition on the basis of price alone, and if so, why? Is it not time to take the next step and ensure that all procurements that are made take account of the environment, social aspects? Now the problem that Hoskonen described will not be solved with this bill,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u13	Madam President! I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that the new procurement law takes account of the specific needs of people with disabilities, which means that in the future there will be no need for periodic competition in the provision of life-long services for people with disabilities, i.e. the continuity of everyday life for people with disabilities will be ensured. This is a big thank you to the Minister and the government. I agree with this quality and price competition. When it is said that procurement is recommended as smaller parts and that environmental and social considerations can be taken more into account, I would ask a few questions from the group on these issues, including those from the opposition: how can we guarantee that it will not go through the easiest way, i.e. simply through price tendering, but how can we take them more seriously? Of course, that is a lot to do with procurement, but it is also perhaps necessary to tighten up the obligations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u14	Mr President! Mr Heinonen raised an extremely important issue here, namely these life-long services for people with disabilities and, in particular, housing services for people with disabilities. The fact that they have been covered by the Procurement Act has led to extremely inhumane competitive tendering situations where, for example, the housing services of people with disabilities have been competitive every two years or so. I'd like to be more specific now. With regard to this issue, the disability organisations will be expressing their opinion tomorrow, and I would now like the Minister to clarify: do these services of a life-long nature for people with disabilities still fall within the scope of this procurement law, or will it be possible to exclude these services from competition in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u15	Mr President! This is where good speeches have been made on these sensitive services, on life-long services, on housing for people with disabilities, but the same is true in the case of service housing for the elderly. It is unreasonable if an elderly person, after receiving a service place and living there for a long time, has to change places later. I hope that these are not just such special situations where you can deviate, but that it would be a starting point that in these sensitive services you will be allowed to live there for the rest of your life. Then I would have asked about this matter of procurement management, because we know it is a big problem. There is not enough procurement expertise in municipalities, even if there is a desire to make purchases so that smaller companies can be involved, and I would have asked: what action has the government taken to improve the management skills and make progress in municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u16	Madam President! This reform of the procurement law is indeed extremely important, and there are a lot of good things here in itself: life-cycle costs, innovative solutions and better consideration of social criteria. To Mr Lindtman, the price has not yet had to be used as the sole criterion, but it has often been lacking on the public side and, therefore, the price has remained the sole criterion when it has not been able to set those other types of criteria. This has been particularly sad at the very time when we have been talking about these services for the elderly and the disabled. I would also like to be sure of the way in which this service housing for the elderly and the disabled will then be taken into account in this competition. I understand that they are not completely excluded from the scope of competition, but that there is still some protection to come. And I must also thank you for taking these thresholds up now. Last time, a central minister made the thresholds well below the directive
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u17	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for preparing the law. The outcome is quite balanced. I would like to raise some important points for us as a group of Finns. It is excellent that you stressed this, Minister, to reduce the number of reports and red tape. It is precisely the central objective of the entire programming period of the government, which aims to achieve what you also pointed out, that resources must not be spent on processes and resources must not be spent on all that unnecessary paperwork, as is often the case. You also raised the issue of greater transparency, improved controls. These are good things. It is also very important to raise the public's concerns and all of us's concerns about ensuring the quality of the procurement process. It is therefore good to proceed with this important and wide-ranging reform, which is a key driver of public spending. I myself would ask for further information on this very central issue: how to ensure that small companies are able to compete in these competitions too?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u18	Madam President! This is a large and wide-ranging package and it is good to be able to deal with it in that committee. I will also take into account these housing services for people with disabilities. Housing services for people with disabilities are subject to the tendering procedure of the Procurement Act, when they are at their worst competitive even every year. It is one thing to compete for goods and small-scale services than for an already vulnerable group of people to live for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u21	Madam President! This acquisition competence has now been highlighted in several speeches. Even at the time of the current procurement law, it would have been possible to emphasise factors other than price alone, and this has been attempted, but in many places with rather limited results. I know, for example, that in the case of service housing for the elderly, there is a desire to guarantee quality by the fact that the invitation to tender has recorded the need to have a quality manual. The offerer has put in a box that this can be found, and then it has been all right, even though this big company did not yet have staff, no premises, nothing in this operation finished, and he has won this tender with just this right tick on the screen. And now I ask the Minister: is training for municipalities and then also for these small and medium-sized enterprises to improve this activity? This is an excellent law, but we also need that know-how now, and it will not be just a change of law, but by the fact that these players are able to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u22	Madam President! I would like to thank the Minister for bringing this big piece of legislation to Parliament. This has long been prepared, already in the time of Minister Ihalainen, during the previous government. There are many good things here that go ahead, but I also draw attention, as chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to these issues, which now relate to the provision of services and to these quality issues. In particular, this continuity of services in life-long services is a critical issue. I understand that they are required to compete here. But then it is a question of whether the price of competition is enough and whether there is now a provision that these agreements can then be long enough and that this sovereignty of the citizen, of the disabled and of his/her relatives will be strengthened. This requires a strong legislative grip because these tendering processes are very diverse and different in municipalities. That is why this power of the law is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u23	Mr President! This is the background to the EU directive, which is quite detailed. That's why it's kind of hard. Yes, I would argue that the municipalities that are most highlighted here have increased their skills in this sector, as this has been the case for years. The problem is often that procurement is carried out by an individual official, not by a representative, but by an individual official, and in order to avoid punishments or at least damage to a municipality using such clear principles that there will be no complaints and in that sense no claims for compensation. Therefore, these factors, other than price, are easily secondary. We need to pay attention to this. Seven years ago, when Mr Hoskonen and I dealt with this matter in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I remember when the Association of Local and Regional Authorities called for thresholds to be high and SMEs called for them to be very low. This
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u24	Let us take Mrs Myllykoski before the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u25	Madam President! There is a lot of good in the presentation, but now I would like a little more clarification from the Minister: With this reform of the procurement law in mind, in order to promote business activity at international level too, and this innovation was highlighted, has it now been clarified whether we still have the possibility, within the framework of this procurement law, to use national aid for innovation and subsidies for products for new employment in business taxation, i.e. is it possible for the municipality, when this directive comes into force and when the law comes into force, to continue to order something that does not yet exist in the procurement law, but is an innovative measure that municipalities want, for example, in their waste incineration plants or municipal heating plants, to promote through, for example, an environmental protection perspective?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u26	For Lindström, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u27	Madam President! I'll try to go in order. I'm sure you won't answer. There's so many questions. Speaking on behalf of Mr Skinner: This bill aims to provide the supplier with tools that can further improve the procurement skills of municipalities and other suppliers. In other words, the proposal highlights, for example, adequate procurement planning. The advice on procurement, which was called for here, is also going to be extended to existing and also to SMEs. The quality of procurement, which was raised in several speeches, is highlighted in this legislative proposal, not only in terms of social and health care contracts, but also in other points. For example, an obligation is imposed on the buyer to justify its decision to use a mere price as a basis for comparing offers, i.e. it must be justified. The customer should take sufficient account of quality aspects in comparison; it came in many speeches. I fully agree, and in this respect this bill is ambitious in relation to EU law. Representative Sarkkinen: The national thresholds for this government proposal are based on the ruling practice of the EU Court of Justice. Although the Directive has high thresholds, the EU Court of Justice considers that procurement below this threshold and of interest to tenderers from other Member States must also take into account transparency and non-discrimination in the form of an adequate tendering procedure. Well, according to this proposal, the buyer may be excluded from the tendering procedure due to non-compliance with the provisions of social and labour law. In other words, this has also been taken into account, as Mrs Rinne called for, among other things. The data on the winner's criminal record must also be required, and the new draft law also allows for the possibility of requiring the replacement of subcontractors if they do not comply with the requirements of the supplier in relation to social aspects. Thus, compared with the current law, the draft law goes a long way towards taking account of this social responsibility and the social aspects. Indeed, this is intended to ensure the neutrality of competition between public and private market activities. In large turnover units, even a few per cent of sales can mean millions of euros. This could then distort the level playing field of the market. Finland has already gone further than other Nordic countries, so that compliance with working conditions must be respected for works contracts for non-central government authorities. To Mrs Lindtman: the draft law seeks to increase the quality of the comparison by obliging the purchaser to justify the mere use of the price. The full abolition of the price was also seen as problematic. Since the subject matter of the acquisition may be 10000 different types of goods, services or works, how is sufficient quality or weight of quality determined for all these supplies? On the other hand, the buyer can take quality into account in many other ways than the comparison of the offer. In other words, you can set minimum standards for quality, so that only the highest-quality alternatives to price competition are taken into account. — Let us continue, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u28	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u29	Mr President! Growth is what Finland needs, and SMEs are sources of strong growth. This procurement law enables new activities in SMEs because it now changes these criteria in such a way that it is possible for a small company to produce sub-assemblies and to have as broad a basis as it does for its business activities. EUR 30 billion is such a large sum that it can grow small Finnish companies, which then operate and develop on the domestic market and later also export their own products and services. I see this law as the most important thing in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u30	Mr President! What is needed now is for the Minister to be willing to correct this injustice, which arises from the fact that money ahead is being put on the market for the services of the most vulnerable. Tomorrow there will certainly be a group of these people at that Citizens' Square. This event is organised by the Disability Forum and the Advisory Board for Housing in the Disability Sector, and now that many of us in this Chamber are certainly going there, what is the healthy one we can take there? They are concerned, quite directly, about whether the auction procedure will soon become the norm. In other words, is it still not possible to contest the fact that money ahead of these most vulnerable people is being competitive?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u31	Madam President! Even now, in the services of elderly people with disabilities, the buyer of the service can determine whether the service provider will continue to provide services in old service relationships and, in fact, on many occasions only new services for health care or care for the disabled and the elderly will be subject to competitive tendering. Will the new legislation cut off this opportunity? At present, quality factors are central to procurement, and procurement expertise as large entities has brought clear benefits, for example, in the activities of social welfare and health care — I am thinking mainly of supplies and medical supplies of the size of the entire hospital district. Will the new procurement law also affect this procedure?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u32	Madam President! The long-standing bill is now in our hands, and this bill is a good example of crowding: the Ministry of Employment and the Economy organised a survey on its Otakanta website, asking everyone how the procurement law should be reformed. It is a good thing that these opinions have also been heard and that in the drafting of the law it has also been taken into account that a thought-provoking, important issue is at stake. Procurement expertise is certainly a theme that has certainly been the subject of a lot of discussion in the municipalities, and indeed the law includes the provision of this advice and guidance by the municipalities, the way in which they are awarded. It will not be easy if the purchaser has to wonder whether this will lead to market law, whether the service will be chosen on the basis of price or quality. Yes, we should all ask for good quality, and a social and human perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u33	Madam President! The Procurement Act is a big deal and, as has been pointed out many times, I also have concerns about these weaker ones, the elderly and the disabled. It is very important that life-long services can be excluded from the procurement process. Similarly, the fact that these small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to compete well, and hopefully the result would be better jobs for the unemployed in the neighbourhood in the future. With regard to this acquisition, this knowledge and the weakness of its competence is something that has come up many times, and I would like to ask: When I understand that the Procurement Directive already obliges contracting entities and also tenderers to have free advice, how can we ensure that the practical situation is not only that there is an advisory service but that there is also and quickly access to it, and that this advice will also be offered to tenderers? How quickly, how soon it will be offered and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u34	Mr President! That's a little bit left over from the minister. With regard to Lindström's reply to this sale, to reflect on the content of that reply. If we have a situation at the moment that about 10% on average is the threshold for this outsourcing, and now we are going to go to 5%, even if the directive allows it to be 20%, then I ask: have there been any impact assessments of this whole outsourcing, because I understand that at least the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has been very critical of the lack of impact assessments in this area at this stage of preparation? This exit means that a municipal waste management company could also manage the activities of a private company along the route when it was agreed with it. And likewise, for example, a public laboratory can provide laboratory services at a private clinic when it is necessary and it makes no sense for its private to be set up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u35	Madam President! Finland is a small country and in some specific areas competition is virtually non-existent. For example, the national market for industrial laundry is thin, especially in the washing and rental textile business that requires high hygiene in health care and the food industry. There are currently two service providers in the industry that meet the quality and volume requirements, one of which is publicly owned. I therefore hope that the Minister and the committee, when they go further than this procurement law, will take account of the fact that, when well-intentioned, a situation in which a monopoly situation is actually created on the market will not be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u36	President! Thank you to the Minister and the government for having the motion here. There is a great deal of good here, but I hope that things will still be discussed in committee. Is there any way to increase this quality alongside this price, because I feel, for example, that after the social welfare reform, if there is no quality involved, the cream peelers will be on the move and then take the pot home? Here, too, is the infinitely big question of whether this acquisition can be done correctly, because that knowledge will then be able to ensure that the smaller people in Finland are also able to compete. Now I would like the Minister to tell me again why this in-house limit is now 5%, when the directive says that it could be 20. This would be extremely good for us to justify, because I myself had hoped that it would have been the 10 rather than the 5, just because the public side had at least been given the opportunity to be more involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u37	Mr President! This nearly 500-page bundle is about to be chewed on by almost every committee in early autumn, and this is probably not the end of it: in due course, different authorities will issue recommendations and application guidelines. I'm sure this is where the pile of waste paper is going to grow. As such, although many speakers have said that municipalities have poor purchasing skills, there are other examples, such as the town of Kiuruvesi, where calls for tenders have been built in favour of regional entrepreneurs. But it is precisely to be achieved that there will be no monopoly situations, and then that the results will not be contrary to common sense and without all reasonableness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u38	Mr President! Finland can also be a pioneer in the EU in many ways. I am now raising one sector, the cleaning industry, which is about 3 billion. Work is done on a small salary, employers train people, but unfortunately often employment is too short. Why is that? This is due, among other things, to the fact that the workers are not satisfied with the conditions, their salaries, but also to the fact that employers are not satisfied with the current situation, because they are now competing only and only at price. So here, too, the quality would be what is needed. Have you, Minister, considered that Finland would create different quality standards, entities that could then be referred to in competitions as part of the requirements of the contracting entity?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u39	Mr President! The overall reform of the Procurement Act is indeed welcome, and we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health are going through this carefully. It is good that this law emphasises quality and continuity and, in particular, that people should be individually consulted. So this is certainly an improvement, but the biggest improvement will certainly come then in the social welfare reform, which is intended to provide people with services on an individual basis. In particular, disability organisations have called for personal budgeting and for money to move along with their choice in such a way that people can choose. This package will certainly bring social and health services to meet people's needs, both for the disabled and the elderly and for other people. Thank you for this presentation to the Minister! Good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u40	Mr President! The draft law states that it will be possible to use qualitative criteria in procurements more widely in the future, but it will obviously still be possible to bypass them. I would like to ask the Minister quite frankly: is this the case that quality criteria can continue to be subject to price? There has been a lot of talk here that disability organisations have rightly expressed strong criticism of this, because if this quality criteria can be passed, it would be possible, for example, for a disabled person's life-long home to be competitive and even at certain intervals. And this is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states that a disabled person has the right to decide on his or her life and residence. I would like to ask the Minister: did the drafting of the law consider these human rights issues and, for example, this declaration on the rights of people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u41	Madam President! These quality issues have been raised a great deal in the debate, and they will certainly be what arises there very often in the situation of the municipalities. What is positive, however, is that it is now precisely a requirement for a criterion to be applied only to the lowest price. In other words, this is a clear improvement on the previous situation that we now have to justify why we take it the cheapest of all. And yes, I think that this draft law seeks to bring in more detail how to take account of these social and environmental factors, social and innovation aspects. Well, secondly on the question of services for the disabled and the elderly: There have been many unfortunate experiences in Finland that people have been transferred, but on the other hand, municipalities have also been able to make decisions in principle that they will then be allowed to live there in the same old place, and, as Mr Talja has said here, competitions often only apply to new people who come within the scope of the service. But from that border, also represented by Sirkka-Liisa Anttila here
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u42	Mr President! It is in the interests of a Finnish honest small and medium-sized entrepreneur that competition always takes into account not only price but also quality and that CSR issues are binding criteria for all tenderers, that by trampling on quality, human rights and labour rights, it is impossible to succeed in competitive tendering. It is in the interests of a Finnish entrepreneur if these CSR criteria were binding. And EU regulation makes it possible for quality to always be taken into account and for CSR criteria to always be taken into account if this is to be the case. Finnish MEPs have drawn attention to the fact that this proposal for a Finnish law does not intend to make full use of this flexibility allowed by the directive. So let me ask you again: why is that? Of these in-house purchasing criteria: this very low threshold of 5% is not only a problem for municipalities, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now buying services for these municipalities in many places when there is nothing else available.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u43	Madam President! This bill is very important. And here the role of municipalities is important: is there competence in municipalities when tenders are drawn up; how are calls for tenders drawn up and can they be pitched? The second point I would like to draw attention to: does this also require monitoring of how procurement will proceed after tendering, and that stage will still be addressed? Has this bill taken this into account? Local proximity is important, and I would also like to raise the role of domestic food in public procurement, for example. Is that something that can be taken into account in this procurement procedure? The services of people with disabilities have become important here in many speeches. This tendering process will also make it possible for disabled people to exchange services for one reason or another. In that sense, it is a good option that the sole reason for the price should be:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u44	Mr President! In the procurement law reform, the Government must take into account the possibility for small domestic companies to compete as service providers. The importance of quality is at the top of the list, and in the field of social and health care this is absolutely essential. The threat is, of course, that the big ones will take a bite over time and the euro will go somewhere. That is where the government must carefully consider the possibilities of getting rid of this. The preservation of good quality in services for the elderly and disabled is something that is constantly being talked about in that field and which many people are concerned about. However, Minister Lindström has already explained with merit how this quality will then be ensured, and the answer came. I would have asked the Minister again: when this public and private service is offered in parallel, where is that development going, are the services they provide in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u45	Mr President! As has been said, this procurement law is now moving forward in many respects, but the fundamental question, knowing that we are now accepting this, is that this will have major economic consequences for a long time. The choices and solutions that we are now making have, you can say, the importance of the mega-class not only for taxpayers and users of ordinary services but also for the industry. I shall now return to the mere use of the price criterion. It is quite right, as the Minister said there, that now, according to your proposal, this should be justified in the future. But it is left to the operator, and you rightly told us that there are examples where this may cause a problem. Now that it has come to the point that there is in fact also a great deal of hope from the government parties that this will be examined in committee, I would ask you whether a more sensible model would be to clearly restrict the situation in which only the price criterion can be used, and in other respects then:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u46	Madam President! The Government’s proposal for a new procurement law includes many excellent changes which will contribute to the reduction and improvement of public procurement and their tendering. Reducing the number of red tape in public procurement is also extremely important in order to make it easier for SMEs, for example, to participate in tenders in the future. It is an excellent development that in future tenders could exclude candidates who, for example, participated in an illegal cartel or who have committed errors and delays in previous contractual relations. This could perhaps help to prevent similar disasters which we have witnessed in the future, for example in relation to the Rural Development Agency's information system projects. The delays in Mavi's information system projects have caused disproportionate harm and financial damage to many traders. According to Mavi's management, delays and problems have been caused by the service provider. The reform of the Procurement Act would allow for this in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u47	Mr President! However, I did not receive an answer as to the extent to which this bill is now changing the situation with regard to the life-long services of these disabled people. This law includes a record that, in the case of long-term management and customer relationships, the contracting entity shall endeavour to determine the duration and other terms of the contracts in such a way that the contract does not give rise to undue or inappropriate consequences for service users. In my opinion, this is an entirely inadequate record to correct the situation that currently exists with regard to housing services for people with disabilities. I would now like to ask the Minister: why could these life-long services for people with disabilities not be completely excluded from the scope of this procurement law, as has been done in many Member States of the European Union, such as France and Belgium?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u48	Mr President! I would like to comment on the question of the previous representative at this stage. This has been so strongly enshrined in the draft directive that, in fact, Finland has no national legislative power to exclude services for disabled people from this procurement law. On the other hand, we have a lot of opportunities to organise housing for people with disabilities outside the procurement law, for example through personal budgeting, so that these housing funds are available to the resident himself and then he or she himself will get a dwelling, so that the procurement law does not apply to this in any way. For example, the service voucher is such an instrument that it can be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u49	Mr President! This personal budgeting is, in my view, a very worthy objective. What I doubt about here is that it is not yet in place and in force in Finland, it is linked to this legislation on freedom of choice for the social welfare reform, which is still in preparation and whose timetable is uncertain and which I believe is partly uncertain. In other words, I think that this should have been changed and corrected now that this procurement law is being dealt with, because in any case this law is now coming into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u50	Madam President! It was very good to hear that, on the left side too, there is support for the important goal that the government is pursuing, that a person can choose for himself. And it is true that this procurement law is one of its own, and it is important for us in Parliament to go through this and, in particular, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we consider this whole to be good enough, and the Minister will certainly respond. But then personal budgeting: it is used in Britain, we have visited it. I am quite sure that during this period we will have a law in Parliament that will also enable us to make the personal budget available, a revised service bill and also the fact that money follows with the person so that people are no longer balled, but are individually consulted. This is an important objective of a human government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u51	Madam President! Indeed, when purchasing in municipalities, all other important factors must be taken into account in addition to price. The invitation to tender must be properly drawn up in order to be able to do so. You have to remember the old folk wisdom that if you want good quality, you can never get the cheapest. If you want the best, it can't be the cheapest. If you want the cheapest, it's probably a second. But another thing that has to do with this social reform and which I'm really worried about: When municipal social services are transferred to the provinces, it leads to decision-making being concentrated in any case. That's for sure. In that circle, I have not yet seen any decision taken at the centre of the province, a direct decision that favours municipalities in the periphery. That in this case, when huge sums of money go to central places to decide, I dare say that these decisions do not take into account the situation of the municipalities in the peripheral regions in any way. This places a huge focus on decision-making and leads to solutions for small municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u52	Then it's Minister Lindström's turn. I think there have been so many questions now that five minutes is probably the right time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u53	Madam President! Yeah, there were questions, I'm trying to answer, I'm sure there's something I haven't answered yet. But let's get started. These quality criteria, which have been very much discussed here: If, for example, the customer does not take account of these requirements for the content of the legislation in terms of quality, then he has acted contrary to the provisions of the procurement law. Even at the moment, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has drawn attention to the fact that the quality laid down in the legislation cannot be ignored in the procurement process. Human rights issues have been extensively considered in the preparation process and the results of this reflection can be seen in the section on the procurement of social and health services in the Government's proposal. Quality in the new legislative proposal has been taken into account significantly more broadly than in the current law. At the same time, however, it must be borne in mind that the procurement law is not a law on the content of procurement but a code of conduct, as Mr Skinner said in his introductory speech. So it does not define what is acquired, but how it is acquired. Mr Lindtman, who left, then asked the question whether this price criterion could be limited to specific purchasing groups. In my previous reply I pointed out that if there are, for example, 10,000 of them, this is quite challenging. I'm not gonna knock you out, but I'm just gonna tell you that it's gonna be challenging where the line is drawn between its price and its quality. Of course, things can be discussed. Representative Andersson, this bill will change the position of disabled people at least as follows: It stresses the continuity of the agreements by means of a code of intent to which Mr Andersson himself referred. In addition, there is a direct requirement that customers of services should be consulted and the quality taken into account as required by other legislation. Once again, this is not a code of intent. In other Member States, the exclusion of services for disabled people from the procurement law is not, in my view, based on a specific restriction in the procurement law, but on the fact that services for disabled people are carried out as non-procurement, for example in the system of freedom of choice. Representative Rinne: Why did we end up with the proposed 5% exit limit? Where contracting entities are able to award contracts to their affiliated entities without competitive tendering, it is at risk that the price paid for the goods, services or works is not the best possible but that the contracting entity overcompensates its affiliated entity. In turn, the stakeholder unit can make use of the overcompensation it has received for itself in competition with other suppliers. The restriction on the sale of the tied agent rule prevents market distortion through this way. The 10% outflow in the working group report can mean hundreds of thousands or millions of euros in terms of turnover for a large bond unit. Such outsourcing, compensated by public authorities, can be very damaging to the non-discrimination of the market. The EUR 500000 exit limit applies to all contracting entities and therefore cuts the possibilities for exits, in particular for large-scale affiliated entities. Well, then, at the same time, the draft law takes into account the fact that the 5% limit for small-scale links may be very difficult to control. In some cases, the sale of 5% can only mean some thousands of euros. Therefore, the draft law sets an absolute exit limit of EUR 100000 which is an alternative to the 5 % limit. In other words, that affiliated entity may sell out an annual share of EUR 100000 of its business, regardless of the percentage of its total turnover.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u54	Then there are still some of the speeches that have been asked for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u55	Madam President! Powers for both the Minister and the committee to cool this important legislation! I think that the unequivocal will of this Parliament is that we do not want to, whether it be the social welfare or the postal sector, international cream scrubbers who do not pay taxes to Finland. I hope that this is also something that this legislation can contribute as much as possible. But my real question is: how does the state’s decision in principle on sustainable food supplies appear in this procurement law? After all, we have a policy that environmentally sound farming methods, animal welfare and health and food safety should be better reflected in public food procurement. I'm sure that's very good here in the explanatory statement. But since we want this to move forward, here is probably the place where it can be affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u56	Madam President! I had the same question as Mr Kalmar, and in what way is it really now evident that we will be able to take account of these animal protection criteria in the future, so that we will also be able to take these local producers into account in these tenders? It has puzzled us why we buy food in institutional kitchens and school kitchens that do not even meet this national criteria, and in this way, with tax money, we support unethical activities elsewhere in the world. In that sense, it would be very important for this to be ensured now that it is indeed involved. The second question relates to the fact that we are now going to have these mandatory exclusion criteria taken into account, through the criminal record extract, when we look at these socially responsible actors. The EU Directive would have made it possible to rule out companies that circumvent EU labour law in principle,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u57	Mr President! The bill thus states that the customer needs to be consulted and the customer needs to be taken into account. But I think that these entries are too vague, because I still have the impression that the price may overtake its consultation and consideration. The fact that the law makes this possible, that is to say that quality can be passed at the price, is, in my view, a bad thing. I would have liked the entry to have been tighter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u58	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for your clarification. However, in sparsely populated areas, especially in the area of waste management, there is a great deal of concern about whether this field is being fragmented or what happens to it. I am sure that the committee will then draw attention to how, in those areas where there is no natural competition, the procurement law could be best respected so that it does not discriminate against anyone's rights but, on the other hand, that services can also be maintained where there is no natural competition. This acquisition competence was highlighted in the debate, which has been much criticised since then, that perhaps it does not yet exist. Does the government have any goals and hopes as to how, together with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, we can improve that purchasing competence now? I did not yet hear a reply from the Minister. I would like you to be able to comment on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u59	Mr President! The proposal highlights these opportunities for SMEs. But then, in practice, large volumes can become an obstacle to SMEs if they do not have the resources or capacity to offer goods, services or works in very large lots. The distribution of procurement would be very important. But I would like to ask how this is going to happen in practice when, after all, the buyer has a significant role to play in the size of the lots and under what strict conditions. There has indeed been a lot of talk about these SMEs, but how can this be monitored in practice, it is certainly a great task for the Minister to ensure that SMEs are not left behind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u60	Madam President! The Minister was not responsible for this association of the Innovation and Procurement Act. But at the same time I would have asked about it — when the representative By his fine example, Eestilä pointed it out — that it is also possible to take care of impossible situations. Take, for example, sports services provided by citizens in municipalities. Do the organisers of municipal sports services, although in the case of gyms — which the minister in the field knows very well personally — face the fact that if a municipality becomes a private gym operator, i.e. when a private service provider comes to the area where there was nothing other than a municipal operator in the past, then competition will have to be made because there is certainly more than 10 % of the current public service provider in that situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u61	Mr President! The problems related to the sale of In-house companies, which the Minister painted in his reply, are very speculative. It sounds like the reality in which municipalities live and in what kind of operating environment municipal companies operate, especially in those sparsely populated areas and in certain very specific sectors has been forgotten. There have been a lot of claims in this Chamber about what the EU requires or does not require, and they have often proved to be untrue. Again, the question has to be asked: how can it be that EU regulation is different for Finland than for other EU countries? If France or Belgium can exclude housing services from procurement, why does Finland not do so? Or if in many other countries there are significantly higher thresholds than in the present bill, why could they not be so for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u62	Mr President! Many start-up entrepreneurs, the service provider will certainly find the government's proposal very positive, because there are two words there, namely 'innovative procurement'. It is a good word but at the same time very difficult to implement, and I am sure this has also been the case in the preparation. We know what innovations are, what strengths we Finns have, but the question is: how do we get to bake them into those procurement packages? At the same time, as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I myself recognise that we will certainly be considering this in the committee, but at the same time I challenge the opposition to cooperate with the government, because this is our common challenge, how we can bring these innovations into new procurements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u63	Madam President! It has been said a great deal about quality, but it has been said that in the future it would be possible for the contracting entity to also take account of this social responsibility and so-called social aspects, i.e., for example, as part of the procurement process, to take account of the employment or placement of young people or students in the profession. I would now like to ask: how is it that these social aspects can also be taken into account in future as part of the acquisition, for example, in the employment of these young people and those who are graduates of the profession or in the provision of training places?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u64	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u65	Madam President! Thank you for a very proper debate. — Mr Myllykoski, yes, I am responsible for these innovations first, i.e. how they are now being promoted in this legislative proposal. At least three ways: to increase the possibility of negotiating, to increase the monitoring of innovative procurement and to add a new innovation partnership procedure. It is precisely this innovation that Mr Skinner also drew attention to in his recent speech, and I accept the challenge, because this is a common cause for all of us. This is also in the face of the next government, I am sure. This is a question of fate for Finland, one of the questions of fate. This must, of course, be taken seriously. Well, then there are all kinds of questions. For these food service procurements: it has been referred to in a number of points in the Procurement Act, such as the quality aspects of the tender comparison and the environmental and social aspects. The future Procurement Act and the Government Resolution on Sustainable Food Service Procurement constitute a whole in which they support each other, i.e. the Resolution setting content objectives and the Procurement Act allowing these objectives to be taken into account. Representative Essayah: Mandatory exclusion due to labour law requirements is quite challenging in the procurement law, although the idea itself is very much to be welcomed, because it is quite difficult to define which breach of all the requirements of individual labour law would lead to exclusion. That is why this is in this form as it is now. Representative Myllykoski referred to my previous life as a gym entrepreneur. The fitness centre activity is precisely an area for which the EUR 100000 threshold set out in the draft law would apply well, so that the 5% percentage would then not have undue consequences. That is the point that has to be made. In other words, according to the information received from the European Commission, Finland does not currently have the lowest threshold in the EU, but very many EU countries have lower national thresholds than what has now been proposed. So this is a good thing to remember now. At least for my part, I wish you a long, interesting and high-quality committee reading. So this goes to a lot of committees, and then the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs draws it together, and hopefully we will have a good, workable procurement law in this country. I would like to thank my predecessor, Mr Ihalainen, for the groundwork he has done during his own period, because this huge giant has been launched during the previous regime. Thank you for that too!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u66	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u67	Mr President! This draft law has long been awaited, and I therefore regret the fact that there have been some things left in it that are partly unacceptable, and I hope that the committee will be careful to deal with these shortcomings. In my speech, I am not raising the good things that are also abundant in this bill, but I am raising a couple of serious problems which have also been raised in that debate. According to the draft law, the use of qualitative criteria in procurement will be possible in the future to a greater extent, but it will still be possible to bypass and ignore them, even if it is now justified. It is already possible to take account of quality factors, but in many municipalities price matters. Competition based solely on price should only be possible in a limited way, since a low priced product can be of poor quality, sometimes even unusable. In the middle of saving pressures, municipalities may be tempted to choose the cheapest offer. As the grandmother of a diabetic child myself, I have heard several stories about the sudden change of care supplies in the municipality to the worse and the explanation has been that the other company won the competition. So in the choice, the price solved everything. Parents of diabetic children have told me that new insulin needles have become so dull that they have failed to inject, or much of the needles have been defective. As a result of the injection, the child has been bruised, the needle is stuck in the skin, and the injection has caused the child so much pain that the child began to fear the injection. One mother told me that all of a sudden, the ketone gauges changed so that they showed no results. This caused a life-threatening situation for the child. The emphasis on choice of care equipment and ignoring the needs and wishes of users can thus even lead to such situations. The parents of diabetic children have reported that medical supplies previously used and found to be useful have not been recovered except by a medical certificate, since the municipality has appealed to the results of the tendering procedure and has said that no other supplies have been ordered. When I listen to these stories, I am convinced that the proportion of price in procurement must be reduced more clearly than is now proposed in this bill. The worst thing for parents of diabetic children is that families are subjected to unequal treatment. It is entirely up to which region and municipality you live, what kind of care supplies are available and what kind of care is available, and this really cannot be right. Mr President! Disability organisations have also given strong criticisms of this bill, because if the bill were to be implemented as it is, it would continue to be possible to choose a home for the disabled or the elderly on the basis of price rather than the needs of the customer. A record stating that the quality and customer needs must be taken into account is not enough. I therefore agree with the disability organisations that the procurement law should not apply to the provision of services of the age of life of people with disabilities. These services should be organised in a tailor-made and individualised manner through a negotiated procedure. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities already states that people with disabilities have the right to decide on their lives and housing, and the same applies to other vulnerable people, such as those with memory disorders. It is therefore a question of human rights, and this law will continue to allow these violations of human rights to take place. For example, I know a situation in which the municipality is a fully deaf, sign language-only elderly person who has placed only the listening persons in a community home where even the staff did not know how to sign. It is unreasonable that matters can only be handled in your own home through an interpreter ordered separately. In addition to these inhuman flaws, there are some other criticisms in the bill. For example, consideration of environmental and social issues remains at the discretion of the contracting entity, although they should be of primary importance in procurement. And my final point is that compliance with minimum options corresponding to the level of collective agreements should be a requirement in all procurements, as EU procurement directives also require Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with collective agreements and other labour law standards in procurement. I hope that these shortcomings will be taken into account in the committee's deliberations with sufficient seriousness. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u68	Madam President! The government's proposal 108/2016 must, in itself, salute the fact that there are things that are easy to accept in a positive way, and it is important that the EU, and now of course Finland, examines the legislation on public procurement of EUR 30 billion. Purchasing expertise has been weak — is it said that it has been on a slurry in Finland? There have been opportunities. The positive thing about this legislation is that this is now aimed at opening the eyes of the purchasers by highlighting the opportunities that can be made in the procurement process. In itself, this is a good and helpful reform for suppliers, which will then enable the Finnish SME sector, Finnish entrepreneurship, all in all, to participate in public procurement under better conditions. It goes without saying that the price alone does not support Finnish companies and does not promote the development of innovations at national level. It would therefore have been more important to record more and more in such a way that quality criteria are the first point, and not to allow the escape for the shy and sensitive official who only chooses on the basis of its price and thus avoids the unfortunate possibility of being prosecuted for misconduct. In view of this in-house principle, 5%, I think it has been taken too far down. Minister Lindström here raised the issue of 100,000, and it is quite important to consider the fact that everything will then be included in the EUR 100,000. Does this mean, in the case of public procurement, that municipalities also have to include administrative services when it is part of the whole process of producing the service at, say, the gym? In a medium-sized municipality, it is quite easy to include real estate costs and staff costs in this 100,000, when this individual service provider comes to the market, where there has never been private service production within the municipality before, the municipality is being squeezed by this acquisition law, and then this situation becomes a bit peculiar and can then be a worse solution in terms of overall profitability. With the word 'overall advantage' here, it is good if we dare to use it so that we see what the impact of tax evasion in this society and, for example, in future provinces is: is it a service provider or provider that produces food services or other, domestic, or is it a foreigner? In that sense, I particularly hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will draw attention to how the overall benefit is perceived: can we also calculate its actual total cost within the framework of this law? During this government, one order for a ship was lost on the basis of the price, but it was not estimated that it would have been built in Finland. It is good that this proposal has made it possible for these eco-labels to be introduced and, in particular, for our food production, this will enable the government to achieve this well and Parliament to decide that we have a very high level of opportunity in these procurement criteria for us to be able to make labels in procurements, that the pig must have a saparo, the chicken must have a beak, so that this label of unethicalness can be removed, that products which are unethically grown cannot be produced on the market. I asked Minister Lindström about these innovative procurements. At the moment, we have the opportunity to bring in this own cleantech expertise precisely through public procurement, in which case we will create references to Finnish SME business activities. We currently have government support for innovation. At the moment, we can conclude bilateral agreements so that a product that does not yet exist can be ordered from a company. There will then be Tekes money, there will be clear support for innovation, and there will be food for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to make this crystal clear. Mr Lindström did open the door to the fact that this procurement law should include these bilateral discussions, and I hope in particular that the chairman of the committee, who is well aware of the entrepreneurial activity, will take a catch and a wise committee on this side in particular. What is vital for us is that, in terms of cleantech's high level of expertise, we do not allow any procurement law to prevent us from creating new references in public procurement for new international exports. Madam President! For this drafting of legislation, I personally wish for success and national unity so that we can be proud not to have to read the report here to say that, as far as collective agreements are concerned, we have, however, gone backwards in right-wing policy and overstepped even better than is currently the case with respect for collective agreements in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u69	Mr President! Key changes to the Government's proposal include improving the role of small and medium-sized operators and considerably reducing national procurement procedures. In addition, the increase in the thresholds is most often proposed by contracting entities on the grounds that in contracts of very low value, compliance with procurement law is administratively burdensome and that legal competition does not confer an adequate advantage on the administrative burden. In line with the new Procurement Directive, it is proposed to simplify the clearing-up measures for tenderers and candidates in connection with the procurement procedure. A simpler and more flexible procedure will reduce documentation and reduce the obligation to state reasons for decisions. In addition, the proposal would encourage contracting entities to split public contracts into lots, i.e. to tender contracts either in totally smaller lots or to allow partial tenders in large procurements. From the point of view of SMEs, the distribution of procurement offers them better opportunities to compete with large companies. In Finland, the SME sector is a major source of employment, and now that it is easier to operate, it is also hoped that Finnish work and entrepreneurship will grow. Transparency and non-discrimination means the obligation to compete. Public procurement covered by the law must be notified in advance using the website, the so-called Hilma. A contracting entity may not perform surprise shops in the middle of a tendering procedure, but must commit itself to what it has announced at the beginning of the tendering procedure and has requested. A procuring entity shall not favour or discriminate against certain tenderers or tenders, for example by requiring a specific brand or by buying only from local undertakings. However, local food could be bought if the choice is based, for example, on freshness and other quality factors. For example, the draft law encourages food purchases to take more account of the freshness, taste and quality aspects of food. One of the most effective ways of enabling smaller companies in the region to have access to procurement is also to allow bid offers to be made in larger procurements. The proposal proposes a change in the system of selection of the tender so that the selection of the tender would always be based on overall economic advantage. Often the cheapest option is not the best in quality, and not even financially. As a selection criterion, local services and domesticity can be calculated more economically as many indirect incomes benefit the region. The change will leave the buyer with responsibility for exploiting it. In municipalities, officials and decision-makers must act responsibly and take into account the possibilities provided by law in their decisions. The impact of the reform of the Procurement Act on services for people with disabilities has been a matter of concern to many communities in the sector, for which I have received a lot of feedback. It is feared that the purchasing unit of future social services will not take account of the individual needs of its customers and will not give them the opportunity to take action to organise services of their whole life. Several actors have called for a limitation of the scope of the draft procurement law so that the procurement law does not apply to the provision of life-long services for people with disabilities. In France, for example, almost all services for people with disabilities are excluded from the application of the Competition Directive. This is based on the vulnerable position of service users. Services for disabled people are reserved for licensed non-profit actors. This authorisation procedure is seen as complying with the requirements of the Directive for competitive tendering. However, the position of people with disabilities has been taken into account in many ways in the proposal. The proposal proposes to lay down its own procedural rules for social and health service contracts and other specific services. It is important that these services take into account the individual needs and consultation of customers, as well as other legislation, such as the Social Welfare Act and the Disability Services Act. The buyer of the service must take account of quality, continuity and special needs. In particular, social and health services dealing with long-term care and customer relationships must define the duration and other conditions of contracts as appropriate, especially for the elderly and disabled. And finally. The bill prevents corruption in several ways. The draft law allows the contracting entity to exclude from the tendering procedure a tenderer who has infringed environmental, social or labour law. The exclusion is also possible as a result of the non-registration and non-registration of customs duties, taxes and insurance premiums. The proposal improves the access of contracting entities to the tax information of tenderers and other relevant background information. If the offer price appears to be too low, the buyer shall determine whether corruption is at the root of the offer. Documents, like a criminal record extract, are only requested from a winning company. For example, the criminal record extract is valid for 12 months, so it does not need to be requisitioned every time. Here are a few points.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u70	Mr President! I believe that a very constructive and good debate has taken place today on an important and long-standing legislative project, which is essentially based on the EU directive on this issue and its application here in Finland. This debate has also shown that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will probably also be left with the development needs of this law, and I hope that, when this comes to the debate, we will have the ability, together, to assess these improvements and to make a good law on this issue, which is of great importance, even because these procurements, however, spend more than 30 billion dollars per year and it does not really matter what rules of the game work are being carried out. In other words, we need high-quality and responsible public procurement, which is a good starting point, and its level of ambition must be high. Firstly, it must be said that the EU directive will improve our existing procurement law. It creates better conditions and, in this respect, the EU has become good proposals to lay the foundations for our new procurement law. And this proposal clarifies this legislation, simplifies it, makes it more flexible, and also allows for the distribution of procurement into smaller parts, so that the big ones do not just run the risk of these services as well as other services. Thresholds are something that has been talked about — that only applies to contracts above the thresholds — and this increase in the threshold for social security from 100,000 to 400,000 is positive, but it must be remembered that the directive allows it to be increased to EUR 750000. Why should we not consider this, too? It may be that there are even lower social security thresholds in Europe, but then, when we talk about the outsourcing of public operators, i.e. the in-house for stakeholders, this 5% limit is narrow and oppressive. As far as I am aware, at least on the basis of the information provided by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, no EU country has planned an exit limit of less than 20%, which is therefore possible under the directive. The question therefore arises as to why we should put it to this 5%. It is very difficult not only for waste management companies or occupational health care, but for many other things, as has been said here in the Chamber. I would like us to be able to tackle this in committee and to change the criteria and the percentage for this sale out. After all, that working group once proposed that it be 10%, and the directive allows it to be increased to 20%. Then the question of what is to be defined: quality, price or overall assessment? I'm sure this is an overall assessment to which, by the way, a representative here. The hill head in a fine way also referred to, is important. The main rule should be that the price cannot be determined alone but that it must also have these qualitative criteria, and they are very important when making these decisions. This involves housing services for the elderly and the disabled: in the case of vulnerable people, efforts should be made to ensure that they are excluded from this competitive process. We should find out if that is really possible, because that is what they deserve from the point of view of their own situation in life. The second possibility, of course, is to conclude agreements as long as possible that the view of safe housing is somehow accessible and accessible to them. Then these environmental and social issues: There was quite a lot of talk about this during the preparatory phase of the law last season. After all, the fact that it does not oblige the contracting entity to ensure that, for example, the terms and conditions of employment are complied with, except in the construction sector and in the procurement of the central government. In the last parliamentary term, this construction business was sunk here. It is important that this control responsibility applies to all sectors, not just the construction sector. Even today, the Procurement Act makes it possible, and this new directive supports it, to make contracts conditional, for example, on the inclusion of a certain number of long-term unemployed or young people or people with disabilities or immigrants. This is already possible. The municipalities use this opportunity a little sparingly, how I would say it, and it should be used even now in terms of employment. Then we need to make it more complete that all operators providing services comply with the basic social obligations: tax payments, working conditions and other social obligations. And the principle of exclusion from invitations to tender is importantly written here, because these slenders should not be allowed into these invitations to tender. Then, at the start of the contracts, it is good to ensure — perhaps not enough has been said here — that the home, location, names and legal representative of the subcontractors is also notified, because this chain assurance is also very important in these procurement decisions, that they are known and that general principles are followed. This question of innovation: the government programme, if I remember correctly, reads that 5% of innovative procurement is being sought, and in this respect it would certainly be a good thing to do so, as many have proposed now, in committee, the debate on how we could sharpen this legislation in the direction of, for example, ecologically sustainable procurement, which would be one such way, or in the direction of the recycling economy, which is another big matter in time. Then there is the question of the relationship between the social services and the procurement law in the context of compulsory social services, as the government is now proposing, and in the interests of freedom of choice: does it lead to the fact that they are not covered by the procurement law? Right? Should they be or not? But if they are incorporated, then this aspect is now good to find out whether it is really this way, as I think it is now, or as many experts refer to. Then the question is whether this kind of national purchasing unit is needed, which is planned: it also has its own criteria for such big infrastructure projects and many large projects, but what is the division and relationship between this national contracting entity and the provincial purchasing agencies is a little unclear to me. But anyway. Then, contrary to the current law, there is a supervisory authority, and I welcome the fact that the Competition and Consumer Authority is the place and that resources are now being increased to enable them to carry out this monitoring task. Mr President! My wish is that we should be able to develop an even better law on this, and I hope that we in the committee will be able to find solutions in this regard and will be happy to find a common draft law on an important issue. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u71	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank you. I believe that this debate has been constructive, but everyone has hoped that the procurement law will now move forward. I hope that once the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy becomes involved in that 500-page pumasco, we will also get a joint report out of it. In reforming the Procurement Act, it is important to improve the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to public procurement, and this has probably also been the EU's objective. An important change would be to divide procurement into lots, so that even smaller companies would then be able to bid in EU procurement and not focus too much on large operators alone. Small enterprises should also be facilitated by the fact that the supplier's turnover requirement may in future not exceed twice the value of the acquisition. With regard to the criteria for public procurement, I believe that the draft law increasingly takes account of the much-speaked qualitative aspects. It is proposed that where the contracting entity uses only the cheapest price as the basis for selecting the most economically advantageous tender, it must be justified. The consideration of qualitative considerations means, as stated in the explanatory memorandum of the law, that if the contracting entity has decided to use the best price-quality ratio as a basis for overall economic advantage, it could set price-quality criteria for qualitative, social, environmental or social aspects or innovative characteristics. It is important that there is more to the procurement criteria than just price. Together with, for example, the Government's decision on the principle of public procurement for food and food services in June, the procurement law can certainly be taken in a more sustainable direction in terms of procurement practices, also from the point of view of food and animal welfare and production conditions. Madam President! These amendments to the Procurement Act originate from the EU Directive and serve the objectives of the EU internal market. Of course, they also benefit Finland when Finnish companies also have access to public procurement in other countries. In Northern Finland, for example, there is a pretty good tuning in that local companies have been able to make their way to public procurement in Northern Sweden. One of the biggest examples is the transfer of the city of Kiruna, which is now being made out of the way of the mine, and that means much new construction. Finnish companies have done well there as a result of the rise. There will certainly be a lot of things left to consider in the debates, to be taken up in committee. One thing, yes, that has been going on for years, and one that should somehow be given access to and raise awareness, relates to the acquisition competence and procedure, because there are many criteria that can be used to examine the overall economy more than just through price. This would now be important for the contracting entities to be aware of and invested in. Then, of course, there is the concern about what is now involved in this calculation of the distributive sales limit for municipal affiliated entities, and in so far as there is no inherent competition in areas, such as this waste management, we need to consider and find out how competition would be as neutral as possible, but how, however, the systems working there will be ensured that there will not then be some more bureaucratic system and a weaker model for public finances. I am sure that the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will return to these points.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u72	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Lindström for his timely return to the Council of Ministers. Yeah, how does the Procurement Act work? Let me give you an example of my municipality of residence from Äänekoski. There was a competition for the city's laundry services. Clearly the cheapest offer that the contracting authority did not dare to pass came from a supplier who drove the laundry over 300 kilometres to Helsinki and then across the Gulf of Finland to Estonia for washing. When hospital pyjamas take such a long trip, they do not make it to the patient in time, nor did they leave. The termination of the contract was expensive and slow, and before the new competition, the laundry mountain grew considerably. It is quite clear that if the criteria for quality and social responsibility are not binding, this kind of laundry rally in Finland will continue. They must be binding, otherwise they will not happen. As has been rightly said many times here, the problem is poor procurement skills in municipalities, which continue to go ahead with price. If it is justified, it is easy to justify: the municipality has no money. As Mr Lindtman said, the law should pre-empt cases where the price criterion would be sufficient and this would explicitly exclude services for the disabled, elderly, family and children from the procurement law. I don't care if it's a bloody race in the store of goods, but a man is not a commodity. Thomas Wallgren took an important initiative to exclude tax haven companies from Helsinki procurement practices. The great threat to the well-being of residents is that tax-paying services are outsourced from public authorities to private companies that do not pay taxes in Finland — if anywhere. It cannot be the advantage of a normal Finnish citizen or the national economy that tax money disappears into tax havens. Paying the tax where profits are made is a minimum level of social responsibility. I ask the Minister: would you like to include tax liability in the procurement law? And I also challenge the committee to find ways, not obstacles, to combat tax havens. I would like to thank the draft law for obliging the purchaser to ensure that the supplier has handled taxes and tax-related payments in his country of origin. So the proposal is stricter than the current law in the fight against the shadow economy. The proposal is also laudably stricter than the directive by allowing the purchaser to rule out a tenderer whose tax infringements can be found in an up-to-date register of the authorities without a final judgment. This practice is likely to be marketed by the Minister on the EU tables. But here lies the pitfall of the wolf: This up-to-date tax condition must only be proven by Finnish providers. A foreign provider can only be excluded if a final judgment is found in one of the offices in that country. I don't think we're even going to pick it up, because it's just a matter of the buyer's own consideration. Since EU internal market legislation requires that there is no discrimination between domestic and foreign bidders, i.e. between domestic and non-resident suppliers, the Finnish Procurement Act could also require an up-to-date tax certificate from foreign bidders. This would prevent trickery, for example, by a Finnish company operating through a neighbouring country. I believe that this is a necessary improvement in the law. At the same time, however, it is surprising that the buyer may, at his discretion, accept a tenderer who has committed serious professional errors. Thus, non-criminal infringements, which are perhaps more typical in company law. Even the shortcomings and shortcomings found in the service do not oblige the supplier to change the producer. Even infringements of environmental, social and labour law obligations do not prevent or even prevent the tendering process from being won. So, the Äänekoski City Procurement Officer has the full power to reject the offender, but does he dare to do so? Hardly, despite the fact that the decision of the Court of Justice interprets this serious professional error to a very large extent and does not require it to be established in a final judgment. And responsibility should not be put on an overworked individual official, who is still under pressure from municipal politicians. It would be clear that where tax offences or serious professional errors arise, the acquirer would have been legally obliged to exclude the tenderer. First of all, the Procurement Act needs clarity. The self-determination of the municipalities must be strengthened, not weakened. In other words, more leeway to sell out public producers and less room for interpretation of the terms of the contracts. As a general rule, taxpayers' money stays where taxes are paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u73	Mr President! We have a so-called firm government proposal, almost 600 pages. The whole is large and has a very significant impact on our society. However, the basic principles of procurement law legislation are that the law obliges public bodies and certain other entities classified as contracting entities, such as organisations benefiting from public aid, to tender all contracts exceeding a certain threshold in euro in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. There has been a lot of talk here about the fact that Finland does not know how to make these public procurements. The second argument is that price is the only criterion on which these contracts are to be terminated. But even under the law in force, we have the opportunity to use much more than just the price. This reform of procurement law now encourages in many ways that price is not the crucial criterion, but if it is used as a criterion, then it must be entirely justified. The fact that the municipality does not have money is certainly not the basis; the criteria must then be correct. In this government proposal, the main themes are these national thresholds, which are levels in euro above which this procurement law applies. Procurement below thresholds is also excluded from procurement legislation. Since much has been said here, for example, about these housing services for people with disabilities, why they are not here in the Procurement Act or why they are not proposed out of the Procurement Act, the way in which they are implemented actually determines whether or not they are subject to the Procurement Act. If it is done with this individual budgeting, such as the service voucher, they are not covered in any way by the Procurement Act and then they are outside the procurement law. This is, in fact, quite simple. I don't quite understand how this has been made so complicated. These thresholds in euros: Under the current Procurement Act, the national threshold for the procurement of goods and services is over 30000, and this government proposal now proposes that this EUR 30000 be doubled to EUR 60000 in the procurement of goods and services. Moreover, these thresholds are that in the current Procurement Act the national threshold for social and health care procurement has been 100000, now quadrupled, i.e. the proposed threshold of EUR 400000. The national threshold for works has been EUR 150000 and no amendments are proposed. In-house purchases: Both existing and new procurement legislation assumes that the contracting entity may award contracts without competitive tendering from its affiliated entity. A tied entity refers to a legal person, such as a company or a joint municipal body, to which the contracting entity or entities exercise control, for example in the form of ownership, and which operate on the market, sell their services to a limited extent. Under this new Procurement Directive, affiliated entities could sell their services to non-owners at 20% of their turnover. In the Government’s proposal, the main rule is set at a maximum of 5 % and a maximum of EUR 500000. There has also been controversy about whether this is 5% too small and what it causes. But I personally think that 5% is a good compromise. In practice, this 5% may mean that we are preventing such activities, for example — in this speech by Minister Lindström himself made a very specific example, and I myself would like to give another concrete example: for example, a city-owned property management company operates in a closed market in buildings, houses, student housing and so forth owned by the urban group, and in a situation like this, when there is no competition, this city-owned company will charge them in the way it wants. There are cases that billing has been higher than market prices within the closed market and at the same time the company has then conquered the free market with its low-priced offers, and this has then caused such an unhealthy competitive situation, depending on the size of the city, of course little, how big it is in general, and has then led to the bankruptcies of the private sector service providers. This type of action is, of course, unacceptable. These thresholds, as has been said, are, in my opinion, correct and, in my opinion, they have been refined for a long time, both during the consultation and then within the government. This bill certainly has such big issues in relation to public procurement and social services and how this reform of the procurement law will then deal with the waste law. I do not consider this issue of housing services for the elderly and disabled to be a big issue in relation to this procurement law, because it can be arranged in such a way that the procurement law does not apply in any way. I am very much in favour of the fact that, through this personal budgeting, the service voucher, for example, defines the amount for a disabled person according to the needs of that person. This is how individual solutions can be obtained, for each individual. Then the resident himself, i.e. the recipient of the service, the disabled or the elderly, for example, decides on the form of his own living, acquires the housing he wants, for as long as he wants, and moves when he wants to. This is probably the best solution for this problem. These things will indeed come to the report in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I believe that this whole package will take its time, of course, but I absolutely agree with Mr Ihalainen's wish that, with such constructive, good reading in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we should get a unanimous report on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u74	Mr President! There are a lot of good things in this procurement law and also things that I think should be corrected, and now it is good to bring up these things that need to be corrected. One such thing that I hope will take off in committee is that how does this bill go with regard to the regulations on the binding units of waste law? This applies to municipal waste services and will then affect the waste management of sparsely populated areas. There, to date, the municipalities have organised these waste management issues, but now, if this proposal is progressing and this tendering limit is starting to move, now companies are quite certain to have to buy them separately in accordance with this proposal, and this will then cause such a situation in the sparsely populated areas that it might double, perhaps triple, and increase the logistics with which they are driven away. At the same time, it may increase household costs, farmers' costs and companies' costs for waste management. This is an unfortunate situation, and I feel that this government proposal for legislation on procurement procedures is significantly more stringent than our EU procurement directive requires. It's a lot too tight for that. If this procurement law is implemented in this form, then the waste management services of these companies, particularly those located in these sparsely populated areas, will be weakened, and the resulting situation will also weaken their economy and competitiveness, and jobs may also be lost on this basis. On the other hand, it must also be borne in mind that the waste transport rally which is created under this law will consume its rural infrastructure and roads and weaken their condition, which is a very bad thing because those rural roads have been built in such a way that they will not be able to withstand a very large rally on heavy trucks. It should also be borne in mind that the Association of Local and Regional Authorities considers this bill to be a risk to municipal waste management in this respect. Then, as such a regional policy view, it should be noted that there is a waste incineration plant in Eastern Finland that is just undergoing trial use. Waste from the whole of Eastern Finland comes there, and it is also partly dimensioned for business waste, just in accordance with these limits of the EU Procurement Act. There is now a risk that this business waste will not be used, and this investment of EUR 123 million will be under-utilised, and at the same time Eastern Finland companies will have to export waste at a significantly higher price. I do not think that this is such a good approach, because it is a question of the costs and competitiveness of these companies. I hope that the committee will take account of these issues in the area of decentralization and that this law will be improved in the direction that regional policy considerations should also be taken into account here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much for this law. After all, this law has been awaited for a very long time, and, for example, there is a lot of hope in the municipalities as regards this law that things could then be more clearly emphasised in procurement than just the price, because even though the current law has made it possible, it has been found very difficult. Indeed, as has been pointed out here, it is not a small matter, because public procurement is about EUR 30 billion, and it does not matter where they are made, how they are made and what criteria are set when the municipalities and the state buy products and services. I believe that the objectives of the law are excellent in terms of simplifying and clarifying procurement, improving the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in competitions and improving environmental and social aspects. But, however, this law is by nature just this kind of framework law and much depends on how they procurement then eventually is done, and therefore very essential is to develop procurement skills, procurement strategies and procurement management in both municipalities as well as then on the public side about the rest of the world. However, the fact that the procurement law allows environmental and social considerations to be taken into account does not in itself guarantee that this will be done, because it does require expertise and it really needs to be able to invest in this procurement competence. However, with regard to these aspects too, there are some gaps in the law, such as the fact that the contracting entity is not required to clarify the origin and responsibility of the products to be purchased, which I think would be extremely important. The fact that these thresholds are being raised from the existing ones is an excellent thing, and it will make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to be involved in different forms of competition, but also here, so that we can better involve small and medium-sized enterprises, it will require specific expertise from procurement activities. I also share the concerns expressed in many speeches today about what will happen to these life-long services, especially in housing services for people with disabilities and in service housing for the elderly, as a result of competitive tendering. For although there are certainly a variety of ways to arrange a matter, even with service vouchers or this personal budgeting, it also requires expertise and it also requires separate reflection on the matter. That perhaps the easiest solution would be to remove these completely from the competition, at least after the place has been first put out in competition, not to create such situations that no one would have to move out of their own home because the service has been reopened and needs to be replaced, while Finland is now almost the only EU country that has taken all these social services under this national procurement law, even though the directive itself does not require it. Then there has already been a lot of talk about in-house acquisitions and this 5% share. I also share the concern that has arisen here and, for example, what Mrs Semi has just said about Eastern Finland. We have a lot of such areas in this vast country where there is no competition in the various sectors and that is why the provision of these services has been provided by a municipal company. For example, waste management is like this, as well as the social and health care sector has a lot of such services and various support services also. If we now set a 5 % limit on the sale of these services, then there may be situations where local companies do not receive the services they need, because there are no other providers in practice, or, on the other hand, if these municipal companies are not allowed to sell their services elsewhere, it means that their cost structure will change so that they will have to increase their prices towards the owners or, on the other hand, different charges for residents. Therefore, this 5% limit should be considered and then considered even if regionally, whether we have certain areas of services and production, where this becomes a problem, or whether we have certain geographical areas where that competition in practice does not exist and therefore this limit is too small, because it will then prevent these services from being obtained. Then, as has been said many times, it would be important that the price should not be the only criterion in procurement, but that quality should always be included and it should be taken for granted that the production methods of these products and services must meet the criteria required in the corresponding sector in Finland, whether they relate to health and safety at work or to animal welfare or to different environmental criteria. Then one of the things I raise, which has not yet come up in many speeches, is that, according to this procurement law, tendering must now also be introduced in such organisations, whose funding is more than half of public money. In practice, this means that if the EUR 60000 of services or procurements are carried out by these organisations, they will have to tender them. In the case of large organisations, this limit will be met quite quickly and will cause unnecessary additional bureaucracy for these organisations. That this limit should be considered in the case of these organisations or removed altogether, so that they would not be regarded as such contracting entities, unless their funding is entirely subject to public funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u76	Mr President! It is a pleasure to see that there are two Finnish ministers here listening to such an important matter, Minister Mattila and Minister Lindström. The main objectives of the reform of procurement law have been to improve the efficiency of the use of public funds, simplify procurement procedures and clarify the main concepts of the law. It has been said for years that municipalities do not have enough expertise in procurement law. This issue has also been discussed in this Chamber today. I must say that if this is the biggest debate the procurement law has produced, then this law could not have been effective. Fortunately, this government is now making this law better and is reforming this law in a concrete way. The good thing about this government is that we make a lot of small, tangible progress and not just talk. Whatever the law, it must always be easy to use. Whatever the law, it must never hinder the use of reason in the municipalities. And that in this procurement law is, in my opinion, the most important thing that does not prevent the use of reason, whether it is a matter of quality, price or the overall interest of the municipality. Another good thing about this is that it improves the opportunities for SMEs to tender. It is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to compete on an equal footing with large companies. We need to pay a lot of attention to this. Then we also need to ensure fair and non-discriminatory treatment for tenderers and to improve the possibilities of taking environmental and social considerations into account. And I would also like to say that I always get a rash of these EU directives, but now that this is being tightened up a little bit tighter than the EU directive, it is all right that we have a discussion then in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on this issue and we can see how this can be achieved. I also wish the Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy a fruitful meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u77	Mr President! From this point, a few words about this relationship between the procurement law and the waste law and the 5% of that amount in it. Of course, it is true that in recent years our municipal waste companies have invested heavily in incineration, when we actually have a circular economy at a fairly good pace. Now, many speakers have expressed concern that this bill is problematic for these municipal waste management companies. Then, in the same breath, it has been said that this will increase the costs of companies. Of course, the fact that entrepreneurs have been particularly proponents of this small percentage point of view, and there has been no doubt in their mouths that their costs would rise. And then there is always a solution for these municipal companies to give up the in-house, when there are no in-house regulations, so that the market can open up in this respect too. I believe that in the long run it is still the best solution for this circular economy. It may, of course, cause problems for these companies for a moment, and I am sure that the committee will look at these transitional periods in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u78	Mr President! Indeed, procurement law is an important law, and it is a very good thing and a great thing that the Finnish ministers Lindström and Mattila are here. The Procurement Act should also take into account the promotion of domestic food production, the use of local food in schools, hospitals, service houses, offices. It is important to know that the food has been produced ethically also in the light of animal welfare. If it turns out to be more expensive to get close food in competition, however, the whole, the result, is important. And it would be on the side of the plus side when choosing the domestic product.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u79	Mr President! Political appreciation is often reduced by the fact that decision-makers have a wide-ranging debate on small-scale issues, but then, when really big things are involved, they are nowhere to be seen. And I am absolutely amazed at the presence of the representatives of the Centre Party and the Assembly on this referral debate of EUR 30 billion a year...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u84	Mr President! That Haraka does not have the last word, and I shall speak briefly. In that speech by Mrs Haraka, I drew attention to the fact that she was evidently talking about collecting waste in her own area. But I do assume that when reference was made here to the circular economy and the functioning of the circular economy, it works best on the market, so that we wouldn't do anything like this by law. I myself think that the starting point of this procurement law is precisely that it tells us not what is being acquired, but how to obtain and give the opportunity to act precisely on market terms in all procurements, including waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u85	Representative Harakka, and let me mention the following to Mr Turusee. — — — — Congressman Magpie, now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u86	Mr President! I do not want to leave the last word to myself in this matter of absolute dignity. — But we certainly do not disagree that the importance of this circular economy is, of course, in the way in which private Finnish circular economy enterprises, Ekokem, many others, Valmet and the like can benefit from that circular economy. It must serve the export market in particular. But the practical point is that where there is enough waste volume for its profitable activities, the kind of activity that can also be provided on an adequate scale, for example, in Asia, Africa, to solve the infrastructure problems of big cities: in order to obtain that volume, it is certainly not worth preventing it from operating in the waste management of society in order to enable private companies to operate. Here too, as in many other areas, society and businesses are working in symbiosis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u87	The 30th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u88	Mr President! It is a pleasure to note that the law in question is changed so that those who have a payment default mark also have access to online banking credentials. I have taken a number of parliamentary measures in connection with making electronic authentication available to everyone. To date, a single default may have led to the deletion of the BIC, or the ID has not been issued. Online banking is now a tool for the use of services: e.g. Kela, employment administration, tax administration and Trafi services are largely online, and their use requires strong electronic identification — usually online banking credentials. The citizens' initiative is also such that the majority of citizens sign it electronically. The Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority, among other things, has advocated the granting of bank IDs. The Finnish Federation of Financial Services also recommended as early as 2010, that a single default mark should not remove the possibility of obtaining a bank account. The proposed changes to the law promote equality and facilitate the daily lives of those who have received a default mark. Today, e-identification is needed in almost all government services. In many cases, a person who receives a payment default notice does not receive a personal contract for a mobile phone subscription. As a result, BICs are the only way for them to be identified electronically. At the end of 2015, there were 370,000 persons in the Suomen Asiakaistieto Oy register. Most of them have been excluded from identification. It is therefore very positive that this is going to change. Mr President! A further step in promoting equality would be to make home insurance and cassava available to people suffering from payment disruptions, for example. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u89	Mr President! It is a great pleasure to praise this government bill for the same reasons as Mrs Elomaa before. It is true that, when electronic identification was designed in Finland in a very expensive and very unworkable way, in practice, banking credentials have become the way in which the majority of Finns, the overwhelming majority, identify themselves with electronic services, and the more flagrant it has become that some Finns have not had the opportunity to do so and the banks have been reluctant to grant banking credentials. This is to correct and promote equality in a commendable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u90	The 34th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u91	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Tobacco Act to allow individuals to acquire and receive electronic cigarettes and nicotine liquids from outside Finland by mail, goods or similar means until the end of 2016. At the same time, this proposal ensures that the transitional period provided for in Article 120(7) of the new Tobacco Act for ordering electronic cigarettes and nicotine liquids from abroad is as intended. According to my information, the tobacco law, which came into force on 15 August, has caused some problems, especially at the eastern border, both at the border crossing points and at the controls. At Customs, the so-called lighter procedure was instructed to apply until the end of August. In cases where there was no import right, tobacco products were seized and allowed to be released voluntarily. In most cases, border crossings also did so and were spared punishment. Since the beginning of September, the law has been rigorously applied. I believe that this is exactly how the law should be applied when a new, stricter law comes into force. In any case, I consider this government proposal to be appropriate, important and very timely.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u92	The 36th item of the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 17/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-07-ps-79.u93	Mr President! This is therefore a proposal from the government to the Parliament on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, on intermediaries in consumer credit relating to residential property and on the registration of certain creditors and credit intermediaries and on certain related laws. The government proposal proposes to amend the Consumer Protection Act and to introduce new laws on intermediaries in consumer credit for residential property and on certain creditors and credit intermediaries. In addition, a number of amendments are proposed to the laws on credit institutions, financial supervision, the supervisory fee of the Financial Supervisory Authority, the prevention and resolution of money laundering and terrorist financing and the Grey Financial Clearing House. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously supports the adoption of legislative proposals in the government proposal with minor technical amendments and comments. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the proposals of the government proposal are essentially the national implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive on credit agreements for residential immovable property intended for consumers. Interest-bearing floor in mortgage loans is included in the second paragraph of Section 31 of Chapter 7a of the first draft law, i.e. the government's proposal would allow the creditor to charge a margin of credit for mortgage loans even when the reference rate is negative, provided that this has been agreed in the credit agreement. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it to be clear that a ban on the fixing of interest rates could lead to an increase in the margins for mortgage loans in the event of a risk of interest on the part of banks and, on the other hand, a possible deterioration in the position of small banks and, as a result, a reduction in competition. Even if the regulation of the interest-bearing floor could theoretically bring benefits to an individual consumer, it has been estimated that the cost of the borrower would actually increase and that the adverse effects on the functioning of the mortgage market would outweigh the benefits. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also stresses the importance of the consumer's real choice when concluding a credit agreement. The borrower must be clearly and easily compared with the terms of the credit when the consumer chooses the interest-bearing floor and, on the other hand, if the consumer does not want this condition to be applied to his contract. The Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland is currently a registry and supervisory authority under Act 747/2010 on the Registration of Certain Creditors. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that it would not be appropriate to delegate the tasks of the registry and supervisory authorities to the Financial Supervisory Authority at this stage when the crowdfunding and peer-loan markets are only developing. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it important that we return to this issue later if necessary. With regard to the entry into force of the regulation, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that, in view of the delay in submitting a government proposal, it is justified that the entry into force of the new regulation should be delayed from what was previously planned. On the other hand, it should be noted that the deadline for implementing the directive has expired months ago. According to the proposal, contracts concluded before the entry into force of the law are subject to the provisions in force at the time the law entered into force. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers this to be a clear solution for the application of the law and does not consider that there are strong grounds for derogation. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament approve the Government's proposal 77 as amended from 1 to 3. and the 8th bill, and Parliament will accept the amendments tabled by the committee, as amended, which are included in the government proposal from 4 to 7. a draft law.
