ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 May 2016. In the debate Satu Taavitsäinen Katja Hänninen has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u3	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to abolish the processing fee for university of applied sciences and universities from 1 July 2016. This proposal supports the principle... [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : Sorry,representativeDepartment,little moment. (The President knocks )
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u6	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the University Act and the Polytechnic Law on the free of charge so that the fee for processing the application would no longer be charged when students were admitted to education beginning in August 2017 or after that. The Government's proposal to waive the processing fee has been agreed by the Government's Ministerial Working Group on Knowledge and Education in autumn 2015 when it handles the Government's proposal on tuition fees for students outside the EU and the EEA. The abolition of the processing fee is intended to simplify the overall amount of fees paid to students outside the EU and the EEA area, and this is already an issue to be pursued in all respects. According to Section 10 of the Universities Act and Section 13a of the Universities of Applied Sciences Act, universities and universities of applied sciences may charge tuition fees from students outside the EU and EEA region to a lower or higher university degree, a polytechnic degree or a higher polytechnic degree in foreign language education from 2016 onwards. The provisions on tuition fees apply to students starting their studies on or after 1 August 2017 as compulsory to higher education institutions. The tuition fee shall be at least EUR 1500 per academic year. Higher education institutions determine the amount of the tuition fee and may vary between higher education institutions and in various higher education institutions. Universities must have a scholarship system to support the studies of students taking part in paid education. There are very different practices in other parts of Europe in terms of tuition fees and different application fees. As a rule, there are no free studies. Sweden applies both tuition fees and applicant fees. Denmark does not have a uniform application fee based on legislation, but universities can decide for themselves whether to levy the fee and how much it is. The fee is deducted from the tuition fee if the applicant is selected. Only registration fees are charged in Norway. It is a national solution as to what kind of fees should be charged to applicants and students from outside the EU and the EEA to Finnish higher education institutions. I think that this government proposal is good and appropriate, and I understand that this is behind the support of universities and universities of applied sciences as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u7	Mr President! Mr Elomaa has already made an excellent speech, and a few points of view on this. We had a great debate about whether it was a good thing or a bad thing, that the application fees were abolished, and we found that its side, like the coin, has two sides, is good and bad, and in that respect we said that it was also a place to make a statement from the committee, which then monitors how the situation is developing. A few questions about tuition fees. First of all, it is an excellent thing that during this government we have finally received tuition fees for students from outside the EU and the EEA. In this way, as Mrs Elomaa said, we can also diversify the funding base for our universities, and it also leads from the perspective of Finnish students to the fact that, if we are to sell these education products, they must be of sufficient quality to sell them as well, and this quality will also be enjoyed by our Finnish young people. You're the one who's in charge of these application fees. As has been said here in the previous speech, there are different practices in different countries: there are countries that collect tuition fees and also apply for fees, and there are countries that collect tuition fees but not the application fees themselves. On the other hand, you might think that perhaps it is a good thing that a line has been chosen in Finland to give up the application fees, because it is our job to lower that threshold from our potentially paying customers to our higher education institutions and, therefore, to keep the door a little more open to our potential paying students. In that respect, I am sure the proposal will be excellent. On the other hand, there is, of course, the fact that, up to this day, the National Board of Education has also been able to collect funding for its work and for that background work, and now that funding base is missing. It is, of course, a place to think about how these student and search services can then be developed and, in that respect, that proper concern is also included in the committee's report. I can see that this is a very important issue, and this is of course a message that we welcome to Finland, welcome to Finland to study in our wonderful studies from other parts of the world, from outside the EU and the EEA countries. This will also enable us to internationalise our higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u8	Madam President! There have already been very good speeches here, but as a whole I think we are going to go down the road of welcoming internationalism, of welcoming an increasingly high-quality education, and I think it is a very good thing — as Mrs Lauslahti said there — that we should allow foreign students to come and allow universities to develop the kind of education that people outside the EU, the EEA, are willing to pay for. This is the direction we need to go, and this is what universities and universities of applied sciences have been hoping for. Of course, there are threats here — how, if there are no payments, where is the funding, but I think that all this legislation is good, and it is good that the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media wanted to put a statement on it to monitor the impact of this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u9	Madam President! This is a very good proposal, and the committee has done such careful work that it has well written out these potential threats which have been associated with this. I would like to raise one point here when it is said here that 'the tuition fees of universities and universities of applied sciences are directed directly to the relevant university, so they do not cover in part the specific costs of maintaining and developing the application services of the Finnish National Board of Education'. It is a very good thing that it has been said out loud in this report so that, in due course, we can come back to this when we know that there is a tendency that if there is any extra money left in an institution, then it will be directed into the treasury of the Ministry of Finance in some way. I welcome the fact that this sentence is here in the text and it can be said that this is what Parliament has been promised in connection with this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u10	Mr President! These processing fees, as they were called, came to students outside the EU and the EEA, because they were large in numbers, well over 10,000 applicants. Experts have suggested that there are also comparatively many applicants who try ice with a stick. Part of the interests and desires to come to Finland were not necessarily study-oriented. But in time, it was a good idea to impose such a processing fee of around EUR 100. When this matter was discussed in committee, I was, and we were also, as representatives of the Socialist Committee on Culture and Education, tilted to the point that, now that this processing fee has only been in place for a year, it would be extended. Some of the experts also felt this way, such as the National Board of Education and the University of Oulu and others, but then we came to it because, for example, UNIFI, and Arene, the umbrella organisation of universities of applied sciences, agreed that when this tuition fee comes, its effects are indirect and, in part, directly similar to the fact that processing fees are not necessarily needed. In fact, during this expert consultation it was concluded that this was acceptable and we then made a statement, in good cooperation with the government parties, that the effects of this matter would be monitored. This, too, is a good example of the fact that opposition parties do not always say no, no, no, but when there are grounds, we say yes, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u12	Madam President! Now comes this kind of parrot effect, when representative Gustafsson used almost exactly the speech I was going to make at that end. It is good that a constructive debate is being held in the committees and that a common view is being sought, not forcefully, but that when it is genuinely stated that this is the case, then there will be unanimous reports that will be brought here to the big hall for this kind of constructive debate. But, of course, the background here is still haunted by the fact — when we receive these tuition fees — how this can be used to support it, if we still have the possibility that the number of students outside the EEA will fall, because it is now apparent from the examples that this will happen. At the time when we think about how, in a way, university funding can be developed through it and, as Mr Lauslahti said, offer the Finns the high-quality education if we do not have the suction to come here for international students, I am quite convinced that the attractiveness of high-quality education will also be reduced. After discussing this trip to China with the representative of Finnish Tekes, there was not a very positive view: if we are, in a way, closing the door to coming here, I do not see that this abolition of the processing fee could make it more attractive. So these are a little bit of fire and water, but I personally appreciate this follow-up clause in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u13	Mr President! I also think it is very good that, through extensive cooperation in committee, we have obviously been able to take forward this issue and the funding system for Finnish higher education and also, in a way, the ways in which the student is linked to it. New procedures will be made possible. Perhaps I would add to this the point that we also need to increasingly prepare for the kind of world where, in fact, university and university of applied sciences-level training modules are not simply packaged, as it were, so that you become a academic year or a degree in one of the educational institutions and physically about there, but that there may be consortia that involve one or two educational institutions in Finland and someone else in another country, and that a variety of learning modules will then be packaged, which will in fact be taken up quite extensively by means of e-learning methods, for example. In these consortia, I have often come across cases where the challenge has been that a Finnish university cannot take tuition fees and other consortium members can. I hope that, as the system is being developed further, this will be a step towards not only closing doors to Finnish excellence and education systems, but also to developing in this new world, which is based, as it were, on web-based learning and partly on global learning. Of course, that proportion will not be significant for a long time compared to those who attach themselves to one educational institution, study there the whole, but if you look at the generation of our children's age, then more and more do so and more important it has to do with the development of our university system, that also such paths Finns can be involved in building.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u14	Mr President! That is exactly what the representative said: there is more to be seen than just tuition fees. The Sipilä Board of Directors has adopted legislation for higher education institutions, which also allows for the provision of university-based education elsewhere. Of course, we have a place to expand this. On the professional side, we are starving to go out to the world to sell those great professional qualifications. Which means we have a lot of opportunities. True, it takes years and hard work and also the ability to select the right market to take what degree. Representative to Myllykoski: That's right. If we are thinking of tuition fees and education here in the country of origin for young people outside the EU and the EEA, then it is true that when tuition fees come, the number of applicants will surely fall from there, even because we have had such an attraction, a free education, but it is only fair to ask why we are paying for a young Indian education when we have less and less money. Why do we not produce the high-quality education and receive more funding to develop our universities and vocational institutions even stronger? Then, Mr Gustafsson, it is great that we are able to hold that debate in the Committee on Culture. We recognize the good things, the strong things, and we also record them, because the world is not in harmony with one truth, and in some places it is good to identify those risk factors, record them and make follow-up statements in order to then take corrective action if necessary. And here I would like to thank Mr Gustafsson and Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u15	Madam President! In this proposal, we are talking about this processing or application fee, which the universities themselves also wanted to see taken forward. This fee will be abolished and the payment system simplified. It is good that progress has now been made in this whole payment system to ensure that Finland also takes this line, as is generally the case in Western countries: that we also have these fees for students outside the EU and the EEA countries. But we will then also ensure that students with limited resources are able to study: if you have willingness and are able to cope with the entrance exams, then you will have the opportunity to continue to study here as well. Mr Mykkänen pointed out this that we should also think more about entities in relation to these issues and how we can get more of these international experts to Finland. I hope this is what we all hope for. We need experts here to make Finland move forward. Let's offer those opportunities. And I would encourage you to think that it would be possible, for example, for those with higher education to receive a residence permit in the future, so that they could stay in Finland automatically after graduation. That's how we can get them to stay here. After all, our education system has been a little unusual in the sense that education has been offered free of charge, but then we have not allowed these experts to stay in Finland. And this is what we should be investing in.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u16	Madam President! Just like that, as we've heard before. We face a terrible challenge in being able to exploit the knowledge potential that we are trying to get here. So the question now is whether we are thinking about why we train experts in universities and universities of applied sciences — the link between the needs of industry and the structures of our society which require that we have excellence, and this debate should bring more of the things that have just been mentioned. As Mr Mykkänen has pointed out, what is the need for us to have a high level of competence is that we can keep business structures and a welfare state up, and that is how we will need to get international expertise here in the future, those new people who will open up the doors to us to global exports, even exports, because it is every student from the country who already has a channel for his own society, cultural knowledge, that can then contribute to improving our export industries and, through us, the structures. But let us not forget that education itself is an absolute value, but keep that national selfishness there in the background, that is why we are doing this. And in that sense we must dare to think that this is not a sacrifice to industry, but a system built for it, so that we can be involved in this global competition, and that is only done with excellence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u17	Madam President! The government proposal before us and the report that has come out of it well illustrate that it might have been worth doing this red tape more seriously in the past, because, in this way, there has been a law in force for a while now, whether it is repealed or amended, so that the fee for processing an application no longer exists. Let this be an example of how it would be good to get to a somewhat more long-term approach. Because it takes too much... However, as this committee's report well shows, money has been burned in vain and many unnecessary meetings have been held here. Hopefully, we will have a more streamlined procedure in such cases. It is a good principle that studies in Finland are still free of charge and precisely so that, regardless of the social class and status and the size of the purse, everyone can study if the desires and wills are enough otherwise. Let them always hold on to it. And when this report mentions the possibility that there will be unnecessary applications when the processing fee is abolished: Systems need to be developed in such a way that this kind of unnecessary idleness will be eliminated and students will only seek out in the areas they really want. That is quite the normal procedure, it does not require processing fees. And the second thing: We don't have a problem with whether or not we have applicants. The problem is probably that there are very many sectors today where there is no skilled workforce, but then there is training for qualifications, qualifications that will never lead to a profession. In other words, within our education, these universities and polytechnics and vocational colleges will have to have a debate about which professions we train, that there will be enough professional labour for all sectors. And finally, this tuition fee for students from outside the Eta area. It is justifiable that they should be collected, that students coming from there should be charged a tuition fee. This issue should not be confused with this situation in Finland, but like a representative Mr Lauslahti said in his own speech that, in any case, students will come to us, and it is right that they should be charged a reasonable fee because there is demand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u18	Mr President! It is clear that this seems a little grouchy that we first have the processing fee and then we do not, but I would say that the situation in which these applications came was different from the one we have now. And on this point, when our new government came, which went on to vigorously promote the export of education and the removal of barriers to education, such as the possibility of collecting tuition fees, it has in some way also made the application fee redundant, because already the collection of tuition fees as such is a message that we have paid training available to people from outside the EU, the EEA. In that respect, the application fees were present earlier, which then enabled redundant applicants to effectively screen out and get them the most serious. At the time, it was justifiable and a good law. Then, in relation to excellence and the creation of excellence: last season, Mr Satonen took a bill to which there were more than a hundred names there, and within its bill there was also a question of how to keep the young people who pay these tuition fees in Finland. It had been thought of such a system that if a young person were to stay in Finland when he graduated, he could deduct his tuition fees from taxation and in that respect he could be tempted to stay in Finland. It is clear that in the future, Finnish young people's studies must also be free of charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u19	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate, which in itself is valuable and important when we talk about education and knowledge, but I am happy to say that Mrs Hoskonen was quite right that these processing fees could reasonably have come into force and used earlier. This is where self-criticism can be done for those who have now been in the grip of power, but we are known to have the sensitivity to make decisions which, for example, are now being targeted at students from the EU and the EEA countries, many of whom, however, leave a rather dire state of affairs, but that is why the processing fee was also set at a very moderate level. But, as I said in my main speech, no one knows exactly how many of these ice - testing applicants have come with the stick, but we would rather talk about thousands than hundreds who do not necessarily want to go to a university of applied sciences but want to come to Finland, which is not the wrong thing in itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u20	Madam President! It is understandable that, when there were no university fees, these application fees were used because otherwise there would have been a clear risk that these applications would have come into the country by piles. In this respect, I believe that the government is now acting logically on the abolition of these payments. As for why we should get Indian students for free in Finland. Well, that fear is, of course, that we will not get those Indian students here if our education is subject to a fee. Two years ago, the National Economic Research Centre conducted a study on the number of foreign students in Finland: about 20,000. According to the VATT survey, more than two thirds of these students were still in Finland one year after their graduation, and more than two thirds of those remaining in the country had been employed. VATTI’s assessment is that the studies essentially support the claim that the benefits of training foreign students to the country outweigh the costs. And this has been the point of reference to why we have wanted to keep education free of charge. The second is, of course, that under no circumstances do we want education fees to spread to Finnish students. Fortunately, many of the governments have said and promised that this will not happen. I hope we can count on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u21	Madam President! The idea behind this question has been clear: no tuition fees for Finns, yes for students outside the EU and the EEA. It is a bit surprising in this debate that, at the same time, it is said that Finnish education is of high quality — and that is what I think it is — but then it is suggested that no one would be prepared to pay for it if tuition fees were in place. I think this is a little strange thinking. If we have high-quality training and I personally see that there is one that can sell, even export, then someone will be willing to pay for it. Then it is mainly about marketing and other things whether you can sell it or not. By the way, what has been decided about tuition fees? The minimum requirement is that 1500 euros be paid as a tuition fee, otherwise the amount can be decided by the school itself. Of course, if you look at the University of Helsinki, for example, they decided that that amount would be between EUR 10000 and EUR 25,000. They could have decided on such a very small fee, but of course they understand that it does not cover the costs of studying. In other words, here the last-hand power is still in the hands of the students to decide to a large extent how to act. It is also important to note that, according to the law, these people, who are now actually paid this fee for this degree, must also be provided with a grant programme. Yes, the state will continue to come to the fore if there are people who are qualified and otherwise meet these conditions, i.e. relief from the tuition — which is now coming — in any case, and scholarships for living. This too should be taken into account in this debate. But the most important thing for me is that if you say that you have a high-quality education that you can sell, then you can pay a price for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u22	Mr President! In addition to what I said earlier: In no way do I want to reproach the previous decision-makers for this situation. That is true, as Mr Lauslahti said, knowing that he is an excellent expert on the cultural side, and so is Mr Gustafsson. On this side of the world, they have the highest level of excellence compared to the person who signed it. The important thing is that the systems evolve. It is true that mistakes always occur when the world changes. During this period, the change that took 30 years can change in one year, that is, we are living in a very hectic time. What was good last year may be hopelessly old - fashioned in a year’s time. So let us not peck at them if the world changes, but try to adapt to this situation. This is where it's been done, and I'm glad this is how it's done. As far as students from abroad, such as students from China, are concerned with studying towards Finland, so There are currently some 300 million people in China who have much more money than the average European. There are a huge number of millionaires who can afford to pay that little tuition here. They themselves produce about 3 million engineers, diploma engineers and university engineers each year, which means that there is potential. Very many of these young people and families who have the means to pay want to come to Finland to experience what is studying abroad, and precisely to see these information systems and, above all, Western knowledge and language skills. It's a fortune for us, but if they're willing to pay a little bit for it, it's just a good bonus for our universities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u23	Madam President! It is quite clear that the whole hall considers Finnish education to be of high quality and valuable. The second question then is what is worth selling. Of course, you can try to sell sand to the Sahara or snow to Eskimos, but now, given the fact that the earth is round, China is a very long way from Finland, there are many more prestigious universities around the world than the universities of Finland, there are much more spoken languages in the world than Finnish and there are much larger markets than Finland, so it is difficult for us to compete in this competition with paid universities. I hope that, in any case, this will succeed despite these difficulties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u24	Mr President! In this way, it is necessary to identify those own training products, to identify those countries where there is demand for questionable training products. Take our teacher training as an example. Teacher training is the best teacher education in the world and there is also demand for it in the world. Then there is the question of how we can produce it into a package that can then be sold abroad. It is not just that people are going to study here in Finland. It may be part of the time in Finland or not at all. As Mr Mykkänen pointed out, online studies are also involved, but more and more we should consider the ways in which we scale them through our educational products, for example through licensing or franchising.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u25	Madam President! I agree that the best guarantee for Finnish quality education is that we have quality teacher education. Now I have to ask you, when the government is about to close down Savonlinna's teacher training institution: if teacher training is of this quality and a selling edge for Finland, how is it worth quitting such a school in any case? I would remind you of the transfer of the International Communications Department to Joensuu some years ago. Of that total in Joensuu, my friends, only 20 per cent remain. In other words, there is a great risk that teacher training will go with the bath water if we do not maintain high-quality teaching in arts and crafts at Savonlinna, where it is possible to do it at a low cost, up to 40% cheaper than at the University of Helsinki, for example, here in Helsinki. Now would be the place where you can prove your word true.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u26	Madam President! I actually asked for a line in Mr Järvinen's speech: the question is not that the government is abolishing Savonlinna's teacher training institution, but that the decision to abolish it has been taken by the University of Eastern Finland itself. The Finnish Government, on the other hand, has made every effort to negotiate with a university of university autonomy. And there are still negotiations on whether there is anything more to be done about this, because the Finnish Government is well aware that if Savonlinna leaves the teacher's training facility, it will be fatal for that city, and it does not make any financial sense, since the new buildings of Savonlinna OKL have already been put into Ara to withdraw the grant of EUR 35 million, and at the same time there will be empty properties in Savonlinna. So that I hope for precision in the speeches. The Finnish Government is not closing Savonlinna's OKL.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u28	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski: Shotgun is not a good idea, but a good idea to do it with the right products on the right market. In fact, I do not take a position on where teacher training is organised, but rather on how much teachers are needed in the future — not just for the needs of our country, our children and young people who are in primary school or day-care centres or vocational schools, but also an assessment of how much we need education professionals in the field of education exports. In this respect, one might then conclude on how much we need to train education professionals. Now that we already see how demand can be found — as an example of Colombia, which seems to be a very distant country, Haaga-Helia has successfully organised teacher training in the country — one might ask whether, in fact, there should be more education professionals in the future. But I would see that this is where the investigation is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u29	Madam President! Representative to Kulmun: Now we have to keep in mind who bears the responsibility for what. The university bears responsibility for where education and education is provided, but the government always bears responsibility for the fact that there are many qualified professionals all over Finland so that social responsibility is evenly applied. Now you can well ask how the government of the country has assumed social responsibility, for example for the University of Eastern Finland: You say you are offering EUR 8 million in special funding, but at the same time you withdraw EUR 10 million. According to my old math head, this means minus 2 million and no extra money. If the government has a desire to keep Savonlinna's teacher training institution in place, there is every possibility of doing so. Next week there will be results negotiations — it will always be a ministry that gives the university qualifications, no university in Finland, Mr Kulmuni, can decide for itself what degrees to give in this country, but will always be decided by the Ministry. If these methods are not effective and helpful, then there is always a last chance, and the possibility is that we can set up our own university in Savonlinna. I am very pleased if the government is prepared to do so, as Mr Kulmun's speech shows.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u30	Madam President! In addition to this debate, as far as Savonlinna's teacher training system and its decisions are concerned, the universities are truly independent, as decided in this house in due course, we no longer have any chips. I can tell you from experience: At the University of Eastern Finland there was a research station in Ilomants, where it was sworn to stay there and stay and develop, it was built. What did the University of Eastern Finland do? One day a phone call came in to the municipality that it would end tomorrow, and two days later there was an auction and the goods were sold out, that it was just not sure the facility would evolve. The reason was, of course, concentration, and the other reason was this absurd university property rental policy. It is exactly the same policy that Senate properties in government buildings pursue, absolutely absurd rents in such areas — everyone knows that in Ilomants the rent level of the normal market is not the tenth part of what it is in the centre of this city. Everyone knows that there is certainly a lower rent level, but when there artificially held the calculated rents at the Helsinki level, of course, for goodness sake, no education is worth it. I am not familiar with the Savonlinna case, but I am sad for it and I have sympathy for the people who are the object of this decision, but universities make independent decisions. But there are two things in this country that should be put right: The absurd policy of senate property, which ends all rational activity in this country with a rental policy, is not a matter of reason, and university property is unfortunately part of this same group. I don't think it's as bad, but it's pretty close.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u31	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 11/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u32	Madam President! This is a relatively technical issue, but nevertheless of national and international importance when it comes to the transparency and confidentiality of business subsidies. After all, this draft law proposes that any state aid of more than EUR 0.5 million in the future, starting in July, should be visible in such a common European database by nation state and then agricultural aid if it exceeds EUR 60000 and fisheries and aquaculture aid if it exceeds EUR 30000. This includes, in particular, the excise duty law, the amendment to the obligation to notify energy subsidies, i.e. energy subsidies would always be subject to the obligation to notify when these limits are met. This will increase transparency at national level and also at EU level, but it is worth remembering that, in the case of direct state aids, support schemes are somewhat different from one country to another and the calculation criteria are also different. When the European system starts to be compared by country, we must always understand the background behind which it has been built by the nation state. In that opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we also raised the role of the Business Support Advisory Board and the fact that it would be good if there were always a statement when it came to such large subsidies. There was some concern about the issue of energy subsidies, which is part of the protection of business secrets, but it seems that this too can be answered in such a way that the range is long enough when it comes to these energy subsidies, so that no company's business secrets would now become a cookie because of the State aid code. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u33	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u34	Madam President! The situation of refugees in Europe has had a strong impact on Nordic cooperation. Politically the most important and important issue last year, both on the government and on the parliamentary side, was the refugee situation and the challenges it posed to this Nordic cooperation. The refugee crisis was discussed at the Council plenary session in Reykjavik at the end of October and at this year's thematic session in April. The debate in the Nordic Council has shown that there are many differences of opinion on this issue. For example, undocumented immigrants, extortion of the asylum system, the opening of borders or stricter border controls all share the views of the members of the Council. The opening of joint Nordic border controls has also been discussed, particularly since the Danish Prime Minister, Mr Rasmussen, proposed that the Nordic countries should have a common border against Germany. Nordic cooperation remains strong, but the challenges posed by this refugee situation are a serious test of this long-term and robust Nordic cooperation. Above all, the question is how the Nordic countries can work together to resolve this challenging situation. One important challenge is the impact on this free movement. The Nordic countries have been pioneers in this free movement in Europe. There has been free movement between the Nordic countries for more than 60 years. The question is whether, today or in the future, this right may still exist. Sweden introduced border controls at the border with Denmark early in the year, and it now appears that these checks will continue. The President of the Nordic Council this year, Dam Kristensen, from Denmark, has said that the impact of border controls on Nordic cooperation needs to be discussed as the flow of refugees to the Nordic countries may become a multi-annual, continuous phenomenon. The Nordic Council has discussed the impact of border controls on Nordic cooperation and held a dialogue with the Nordic governments on how the Nordic countries can jointly find a solution to this situation. Mr President! The second topic which was widely debated in the Council at the end of the year was the causes and prevention of radicalisation and extremism — in part, of course, related to this previous subject. There were attacks on Charlie Hebdo's newspaper and terrorist attacks on Copenhagen and Paris. This radicalisation and extremism became the subject of last year's theme session in April. The Nordic Council is increasingly addressing foreign, security and defence policy issues. These questions were also strongly raised during the reporting year. The Icelandic Presidency also highlighted foreign policy and international cooperation. The Council continued to work closely with a number of regional parliamentary organisations such as the Baltic Sea, the Arctic and the Barents region and the Northern Dimension. During the year, a delegation from the Nordic Council of Finland organised and hosted a study visit of Russian parliamentarians to Finland in February and also the Barents Parliamentary Conference in September. This multi-annual Council cooperation with the Russian parliamentarians was exceptionally limited during the reporting year due, inter alia, to the situation in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine and the declaration of the Nordic Council of Ministers' offices in Russia as foreign agents. In January of this year, it was celebrated that it was exactly 60 years since Finland first participated in the Nordic Council. In 1956 the Finnish delegation took part in the first Council meeting. Finland hosted meetings of the Nordic Council's political group, presidency and committee in Parliament in January of this year, and a separate joint meeting was held in the Parliament with the aim of taking into account this relatively important milestone in the history of Finland. The members of the Nordic Council delegation to Finland have been active, have made a number of suggestions for membership, written questions to all Nordic governments and have been active in budgetary matters. And finally, Mr President. The delegation has highlighted the synchronisation of the work done in Parliament and the Nordic Council, i.e. how the work done in the Nordic Council would benefit national parliaments, how, for example, the work done in Parliament would continue to support this work in the PN. The delegation hopes that the Nordic Council's recommendations should be discussed and communicated to the committees, and since the Nordic Council's work last year highlights this refugee situation, I would like to consider asking the Committee on Foreign Affairs, if it so wishes, for a view of this report from the Administrative Committee. — Thank you, jack.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u35	Madam President! The Nordic countries have five national languages: Icelandic, Norwegian, Swedish, Finnish and Danish. This is also stated in the 2006 Nordic Council Declaration on Language Policy. However, the working languages of official Nordic cooperation are only Swedish, Norwegian and Danish. Iceland and Finland have not been accepted as working languages of the Council and therefore have no equivalent status in Nordic cooperation. It is therefore important to promote cooperation between Finnish and Icelandic-speaking citizens from the Nordic countries on an equal basis. In practice, the status of the official working language means that all Nordic Council documents are written and communication takes place in one of these languages. Currently, the Nordic Council members cannot submit written questions, suggestions or other documents in Finnish to the Nordic Council Secretariat for discussion. In addition, the Nordic Council Secretariat uses these three languages in its work. This puts Finnish and Icelandic speakers in an unequal position when applying for and filling the secretariat's jobs. Mr President! Language plays a crucial role in forming an individual's identity. An individual may identify with an institution in which his or her language has a recognised status. Studies show that Finns have a clearly inferior view of the importance of Nordic Council decisions for Finns. This is undoubtedly influenced by the fact that the Nordic Council is often perceived as an institution representing only its Swedish-speaking population in Finland. It is very damaging to Nordic cooperation, as around 20% of Nordic citizens speak Finnish. It is about the same as the number of Danish speakers, and so Finland is the second most spoken language in the Nordic countries. Mr President! In order for the Nordic Council itself to be able to demonstrate its equality and fairness in its own work, the Council should also accept the Finnish and Icelandic languages as the working languages of the Council itself. Correcting a linguistic defect would have a positive impact on the image and acceptability of Nordic cooperation in both Iceland and Finland. I hope that the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council can promote the position of Finnish in the Nordic Council. I am pleased and proud that Finland is part of the Nordic countries. So let us show together that appreciation is also reflected in deeds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u36	Madam President! Last year was active in Nordic cooperation, as always, and certainly similar to the previous years. However, one thing was highlighted, no doubt: the situation of asylum seekers, which, last summer, actually fell into the arms of the Nordic countries, was also reflected in the Nordic Council plenary sessions and the Agency. But in this same phenomenon there was also a terrible emphasis on the Nordic cooperation. Without close cooperation with the Nordic countries and, of course, also at European level, the situation would certainly not have been brought under control, so that Nordic cooperation did show its strength. And, of course, now that a large number of asylum seekers also receive asylum status, it is also a Nordic question that we can compare good practices and then invest in integration and good doctrines. Despite the activity — and of course the delegation is always particularly active — perhaps at national level, I think Finland is plagued by a somewhat chronic lack of ambition in Nordic cooperation. Nordic cooperation is terribly important to us in terms of the international framework, but at national level it is not visible in the public debate. Fortunately, however, it has a strong tradition and tradition in Nordic relations. Even if there were times of change at times, the continuum has always been secured. In particular, I hope that now that Finland will be the President of the Nordic Council of Ministers this year and next year the Nordic Council Presidency, also at national level, will be able to promote Nordic cooperation and take Nordic perspectives into account in the social debate. Mr President! There is still a great deal to be done in Nordic cooperation, such as the dismantling of border barriers, which has been important to us from time to time. And it is important that the work of this working group on border barriers in the Nordic Council was modified and tried to make it more effective, with each of the four committees now having border guards, who then regularly gather together to work on this situation of dismantling border barriers and also working closely with the Border Obstacle Council. What is also great is, of course, that there is now a Finnish President in the Border Barriers Council. Mr President! Overall, mobility between the Nordic countries still requires a lot of work. At the end of this year we will have the Poul Nielson report on Nordic labour market issues, and hopefully we would benefit from these good labour market practices and the dismantling of barriers to work in a cross-border region. In particular, since the northern parts of the Nordic Region are already often referred to as the common labour market, these practices should be flexible between countries. Then, if you also think about national policy issues, the Nordic cooperation is also very important, especially in industrial, energy and transport policy. If you consider Finland’s electric self-sufficiency, which is rather weak with the highest winter temperatures, the strengthening of electricity transmission networks between Finland and Sweden is an important asset. Yes, it would be important to have a railway project from Finland to Sweden. These are also major national issues. Although this electrification of one railway block is not a very large investment, about EUR 10 million, it will finally bring Finland a rail connection to the west. Not to mention all future data transfer systems, data cables and maritime cables: Finland could well be the Nordic hub on these issues, and we should keep them on the table in the Nordic dialogue. I therefore hope that the work of the Finnish delegation will continue to be as active and, of course, will be even more active. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u37	Värderade fru talman, Madam Speaker! A few observations from this account. Colleagues have already raised the issue well, which has been discussed and which subjects have been topical in our joint work. The first observation is that much has been said about the need to strengthen cooperation at European level. In other words, they have a great deal of common interests at the end of Brussels — both for those countries that belong to the European Union and then for those who do not belong. This has also been concretely on the agenda in such a way that consideration has been given to what measures can be taken to improve this EU coordination, to improve the EU's influence and to ensure that the EU does not create new barriers to borders, because the EU is in fact the single factor that creates the greatest barriers to borders between the Nordic countries. This is an important topic which receives very little attention in this report itself, and that is why I wanted to highlight it and point out that this is a theme that has been on the agenda and will also be on the agenda in the coming year, including the middle group initiative, which has been chaired by the honour of taking part in the last year. Then a couple of other short remarks. The first is that I would see that, together now, we must also consider how to get more concreteness into this activity. In other words, there is quite a lot of such a thing if not at the level of the formal speech so much in general and there is a very broad consensus on matters, but then there was no need to set clear objectives for our actions and also to achieve them within a certain time limit. I believe that in it we representatives ultimately have the responsibility to set and work together on those goals, and I believe that everyone who is involved in this activity would like to have more of these results-oriented policies, in which also everyone is responsible for the fact that their own government is trying to promote those things. This is a bit of an activity culture issue that I would see that we would also have every reason to think about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u38	Mr President! I would like to highlight two key themes which have been on the agenda of the Committee on Citizens' Affairs and Consumer Protection. First of all, a non-toxic everyday life in the Nordic Region means that the Nordic Council has been working for years to reduce the exposure of people to chemicals in everyday life — chemicals, such as toys, various packagings and cosmetics. Among other things, phthalates have been identified as endocrine disrupting and reproductive disorders, and it is very important to protect children and all consumers from these chemicals. It has been promoted that the Nordic countries take the lead in reducing the harmful effects of chemicalisation and prohibiting the use of phthalates. After all, these phthalates are used as a plastic softener. The Finnish Government should act quickly here and, together with the other Nordic countries, should contribute to this. The second issue is the fight against trafficking in human beings and the fight against trafficking in human beings. This horrendous crime goes beyond the borders even in the North, and cooperation is needed. Cooperation between the various authorities must be strengthened. In Finland, too, we would need a police unit specifically dedicated to the investigation of trafficking in human beings and the fight against trafficking in human beings. Especially challenging is the identification of victims and the right kind of encounter. Victims are extremely traumatized, need help with traumas and health problems. The protection of victims is extremely important not only for themselves but also because they can trust the authorities and help in criminal investigations involving unscrupulous criminals who traffic in human beings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u39	Madam President! First of all, warm thanks to all the members and staff of the delegation — active in 2015 — and also through the staff to our Secretary-General, Mari Lorde. Another fine activity report has been produced since last year. Here are the main points. Iceland was the country holding the presidency, and it was Iceland that highlighted internationalism in its own programme, welfare society and civil society themes. A few lifts: I have to thank our former Secretary of Defense, Carl Haglund. In time, he set in motion these roundtables on foreign and security policy for the Nordic Council of Ministers. After all, the Nordic Council did not deal much with defence policy or security policy before the 2010s. This was also a good forum, and this was held in Stockholm in 2015 under the leadership of Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, an excellent debate which also covered this issue in Russia. Perhaps in this picture of foreign policy in relation to the Nordic countries it was Russia that still had a lot to discuss. One of these was when Russia closed... or at least it is said that this agency and these Nordic offices in their soil affected the closure and perhaps more of the rest of the debate in Russia. One strong thing is also this influence on the EU. I myself have maintained that the Nordic Council should also have more proactive influence towards the EU. We could influence the Commission and in time. We have a lot of things in Nordic cooperation, such as forest, environmental policy and many others where we are very similar. From an environmental point of view or from a business point of view, we are different from other European countries. The second is, of course, the implementation of EU regulation: in the Nordic countries we could strive to have at least similar ways of implementing it. Here, too, there were good initiatives and steps forward in this regard. The reform work progressed. The reform work started in 2014 was now completed and indeed the committee structure was reformed. This national connection has come up. Quite a few of our committees here in Finland deal with these issues, and we would have to have an automatic way of bringing them to our committees for information or discussion. Of course, our committee members will remain concerned or, let us say, the task of bringing these things. But more debate than just this activity report would be better to have these same things here in our Chamber. The reforms will now continue on the side of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers is being modernised and there we have Anne Berner to take this forward. In my opinion, the new members got off to a good start. We got good presidencies. Mr Eerola and I were two old villains in the whole group, and all the others were new members. Thank you for that activity. You accepted the assignments that were offered there, and you did well to catch up with them. That was a great thing. Even from my own work: I used to be chairman of the middle groups in Carl Haglund for six months during 2015, including the presidency and the budget. The middle groups are an interesting group. There are 24 different parties from five different countries. While here in the Finnish Hall with the RKP and the Greens there is always a small debatt about things, in that Nordic discussion we were very much in line, but also with the various parties in other countries. My work also continued in the NIB, i.e. Nib, Nordic Investment Bank, NDF and Nef-co Control Committee. They gave me good experience and I have taken the message forward that we should spend more on these funds and money also in Finland and also on this foreign activity, for we have this office here in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u40	Mr President! I fully agree with these comments on the increase in concreteness and the fact that it is, of course, the responsibility of us parliamentarians to bring those matters from there. From the Nordic Council to the national parliament. But even the letter that the Finnish delegation made to the Staff Committee in the summer that they would always be dealt with in some way in committee must be remembered and always kept on the agenda. I hope that the Nordic perspective will also move forward here in the national parliament. I was thinking of raising one more question which I personally encountered when I asked a written question last autumn — in fact, in relation to one of the recommendations which has passed since the Icelandic plenary session, which relates to the provision of human health services in cross-border cooperation, especially in sparsely populated areas. There, in many cases, the nearest public service provider may be in that neighbouring country, and it would only make sense that people should then also be allowed to use public services in these regions across borders. After all, this is one of the EU's basic princes, that services and people are moving. Unfortunately, however, the Council of Ministers' response was rather clammy in spite of the fact that we have, for example, the EU's Patient Directive and the EU's efforts to promote mobility and development in the social and health fields. If so, I would like to see such an observation from colleagues in the country of origin, then the Nordic perspective is always brought to the attention of the national ministers, that it will then be brought up there in the Council of Ministers. Of course, he would, wouldn't he?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u41	Madam President! The representative, Mr Haglund, stated that this suggestion that Finnish should also be wedged into the working language in the Nordic Council would entail additional costs. Of course, no one will deny that this is the case, of course, with regard to the Icelandic side. Personally, I see that in this way philosophy is such that everything or nothing. If we take the line of interpreting, it is very inconsistent that the other language group should be told that you will be interpreted, translated, you will not. Yes, I would assume that everyone should be treated in the same way, whatever the line. Another option would be to do what was decided in the Nordic Council for Youth, namely English. I don't support that. In my opinion, we should stick to our national languages and appreciate them. It is also part of that Nordic cooperation and its importance to all of us. I would, of course, like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Haglund and all the members of the Finnish delegation for their very fruitful cooperation and debate on these issues. With regard to the annual report, I would like to raise one more point in particular. It was noted here that Mr Eerola's speech pointed out that there has not been much cooperation with the Russian representatives in relation to this classification as foreign agents just last year. This is very regrettable for Finland, especially for us from the Nordic countries. Of course, in addition to Norway, it is very important what cooperation in Russia is like. This was so active in the Sustainable Nordic Group that now that we have a summer meeting in Iceland at the end of June, I put forward and then our representatives from the Finnish delegation, Mr Karnä and Mr Koski, in favour of inviting representatives from the Russian Duma to this meeting of the Sustainable Nordic Committee and then also environmental experts. If you think of such a question as environmental issues in particular, it would be a rather tedious discussion if we did not invite the Russians, for example, to Arctic questions. It will be in their hands whether they come or not, but it is important that the dialogue is maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u42	Madam President! In this language matter, if it had ever been agreed in time to speak Scandinavian, perhaps it would be possible to do so. But, of course, I do not have very strong Swedish myself, and then, especially if the Greenlandian speaks Danish, it is quite impossible to reach an agreement through it. In other words, this is great when interpretation has been provided to Finland, and we must adhere to it in every way we can and promote it. I think it was last year — in 15 C.E. — so that because of these own payments, I think some interpretation was not done or at least threatened that it would have been reduced. But a few more things. That budget process has been reformed. I think it took a few steps forward and backwards, but now we are probably at the point in the presidency that budgeting for this year could perhaps be better achieved. As a middle group, we also proposed setting up an EU office there for budget funding. I see this Nordic cooperation as being like five siblings: three are in the EU, three are in NATO, and one is in the euro. In other words, it is perhaps important to promote and intensify its activities in the direction of the EU, as Norway, for example, is equally introducing many things, even though it is not a member of the EU. As far as NATO is concerned, Sweden raised this NATO debate quite a bit, and it is good that this issue is also being discussed in Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u43	Madam Speaker! In general, this is the only language and interpretation issue. That is exactly what we agree with, Mr Elo. My concern is mainly that Finland has now been the Nordic country that has wanted to keep the budget as low as possible. From Helsinki it has been stressed that it must not grow, should rather be reduced, and if we look at per capita now, who pays, then we are actually in a beneficial position. And if we will then present a proposal that will bring considerable additional costs — not just small ones — then we must be prepared to say that this is all right, but the bill will come to Helsinki. That is what I am trying to say, and I am saying this to the government parties because, as you know, we in the opposition have little to say about that budget. Then you'll have to figure out where the money comes from, but it's all right. It is also good to note that this issue has been raised in the past. I talked to the secretariat that much, I asked about the background, because I happened to meet the former Secretary-General, who is a former Member of our Parliament, and I asked him about it. That meeting took place on the same day that Mr Eerola had brought this up. He then explained that it was cleared up in a positive way even when he was Secretary-General, and it then came across that it would have entailed considerable additional costs and that these other Nordic countries were already of the opinion that the fall to Helsinki was then, because Finland may not have been quite as large a payer as the other countries. This has to be taken into account here, that if we genuinely want — and I am going back to this specificity — that this is not going to be this kind of talk, but that we are actually going to drive this change, because I do not want to switch to English either, then it also requires that we also have a plan on how to cover the costs if we start driving this through. It is also more likely that this will be achieved if we have a credible plan of how this will be financed. That is what I am trying to stress, but we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u44	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Haglund for his excellent speech. If we agree on philosophy — and as I understand the delegation is very much in agreement — then it is only a question of how to put it into practice. And you are right that considerable costs would certainly come. As far as whether the invoice is sent to Helsinki is concerned, of course, I would personally see that the Finnish issue is so important that it is worth paying something to promote the Finnish issue in such cooperation. But that's my personal view. It will then be something that must, of course, be dealt with within the government if and when such a question arises. But I personally think that something like this should also be paid for. But let's go to the practicality now that this philosophy is beginning to be cloned and agreed — there is a common vision, then let's move on with the practicality of how it is done in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-11-ps-50.u45	Madam President! The representative, Elo, actually at this point emptied the bank: So if you may have experienced in Finland in some cases that this Nordic cooperation has not given as much as it might have given or as much as it has given to Sweden, Norway and Denmark, then perhaps there has not been a willingness to pay. But if the situation were to be felt that, once we had achieved such progress, we would get more from that Nordic cooperation, then perhaps you could imagine that some more would be invested in it financially. Well, that's not what we can decide, as we all know. I also know that this kind of initiative was sometimes done less than 10 years ago, in a similar direction, and at that time was talked about precisely these great costs, what it had brought, but nevertheless had taken steps forward already then. And then, among other things, these comments began to be translated into Finnish and so, earlier the agendas had become almost exclusively Danish. Here is always this philosophical thought: that when you go out and get something, you have to think that you may not always get everything you seek, but that you usually get something. And perhaps this should be more concrete in defining what is sought and what is meant. But this is a good thing. If this leads, for example, to the fact that there will be more Finnish-speaking employees in Copenhagen, there in the secretariat, in the future — there will be no need to be Finnish-speaking people, but even those who can speak Finnish in order to be able to send questionnaires, written questions in their own mother tongue on an equal basis — that is already a significant step forward. But it is great that there is such a political consensus between the political parties and opposition parties, the various parties, and the various Nordic groups. That there must be some level of progress.
