ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. In this connection, I would remind you that the speeches are one minute long, so that as many questions and answers as possible can be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u2	Congressman Tavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u3	Mr President! On Monday it was a day of grief in South Savo when we were informed that Savonlinna's teacher training was discontinued. Savonlinna's work is excellent in quality. Teacher training across Finland is very important because the level of education in our country is based on skilled, professional teachers. Last season, Minister of Education Jukka Gustafsson ensured that education was maintained in Savonlinna. The closure decision is the loss of hundreds of jobs, millions of tax revenues and purchasing power to the city of Savonlinna and the entire province of Etelä-Savo. 850 students have brought life force and their departure weakens the attractiveness of our province, the regional economy, the educational and cultural level and the availability of qualified teachers to work in day-care centres and schools. Minister of Education! Why didn't you intervene?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u4	Mr President! The decision of the University of Eastern Finland to close Savonlinna Teacher Education Institute and to transfer the functions and teacher training from there to Joensuu is, of course, a heavy decision in the Savonlinna region. In this Chamber, too, many Members of Parliament from the region have worked hard on this issue, but I would like to emphasise that, according to our constitution and our university law, decision-making in this matter is strongly in the universities, i.e. in the area of autonomy, and indeed the University of Eastern Finland is the decision-maker in this matter. The Government discussed the possibility that we could have continued with the additional funding of EUR 2 million, but we believe that this would not have affected the decision of the University of Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u6	Mr President! There was autonomy in universities even when Gustafsson was in charge. I have here a statement from a representative of the university in the newspaper of Karelia: 'A clear offer has never been made to us either orally or in writing. We are now given the impression that we have been offered money and we have refused it. This is not the situation, Mönkkönen assures us." This is a huge deal for Savonlinna, and I bring it to the government in good health that the whole province of South Savo is disappointed. Clearly, you lack a will mode. What you are doing is quite incomprehensible: the training places are centralised, the train stops, the mail and taxis are no longer running, the district courts are being closed, the police stations are being closed down and the university centres are closing down. Mr Vehviläinen, why do you allow educational savings to be used as an instrument of ideological concentration? Why are you allowing growing regional disparities and increasing the injustice between regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u7	Mr President! This is quite a list that you lumped into this one decision. I note that all those who are abolitions are always difficult for a particular city or municipality or for the whole province. As Mr Grahn-Laasonen said earlier, we had a discussion among the government on this OKL matter and the University of Eastern Finland issue, but we did get a clear message that the university wanted a longer-term solution, not always a few years at a time, and such a solution — when you referred here to Mr Gustafsson earlier — has not been applied for in this four-year period either. I myself think that we should look at regionalisation and regional development in general together, and we have this coordination group on regionalisation, which is run by Secretary of State Jari Partanen, and we are now doing, at the very moment, a study which considers that it is possible to minimise such closure decisions as little as possible in the same places. They are very
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u8	Mr President! In fact, Minister Vehviläinen said all the essential things about this, but I would like to mention the background to this. So eight years ago, the then Minister for Education Sarkomaa, with an additional EUR 2 million, was able to secure the continuation of teacher training, and since then Minister Gustafsson, but the situation has lived in such a way that it would require considerable investment in Savonlinna, and on this basis the University of Eastern Finland has not asked us for this EUR 2 million additional funding. However, we discussed this possibility within the government and, as Mr Vehviläinen said and I myself said earlier, it would not have changed this decision in one direction or another. It is now up to us to look strongly to the future and to consider the ways in which the Savonlinna region can develop and survive in the future, and then, on the one hand,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u9	Mr President! In this regard, an attentive listener can see that this is not necessarily a very far cry from the fact that Savonlinna's teacher training can continue there. Of course, this is very important to me personally because I worked hard on it. And we know,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u12	Mr President! This decision by Savonlinna is very unfortunate and regrettable. We had a discussion between the government about it, and we had the readiness to continue with this type of funding, and the university has been informed of it. We expected the university to propose that this kind of funding could guarantee continuity so that we could then deal with the matter further. It's still not too late. If such a proposal is made by the university, we will be happy to consider it. Economic bodies are extremely tight, as we all know. I, too, visited the university and discussed this very issue, and even then it was quite clear that this EUR 2 million per year, the continuation of this funding, would no longer change this decision. But we're on our side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u13	Mr President! The city centre has always told us that it is the defender of the provinces. That is why it is strange that this central government is taking the courts, the police, the mail and even the railways out of the provinces. In North Karelia, the latest source of horror is the proposal to stop the rescue operation in its own region. The rescue services in North Karelia have worked so efficiently and taking into account the special features of the region that the same model could be copied to Finland as a whole. Why break what works well? What cost-effectiveness analysis is the basis for such a proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u14	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to say to this regional policy and the debate on regional development that this is not a clean neck for anyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u17	Madam President! In the autumn, the Minister of Education sent an open letter to the management of universities and universities of applied sciences calling for the concentration of competence. The same objective is also strongly reflected in the Government Programme, which states that the Government supports strong regional and sectoral centres of expertise through funding. Surely this should not really mean that the government's goal of concentration of competence means that well-functioning and progressive units, such as Savonlinna's teacher training, will actually be abolished? In Savonlinna, births were already abolished, and there has been a certain process of dismantling the central hospital. Both these issues, and now the closure of the teacher training institute, are very, very strongly affected by the situation in that city, Savonlinna, and its surroundings. Savonlinna and its surroundings are significant for Finland as a whole. Was this decision really reasonable? Can't the Minister of Education also use his authority to use guidance? Is there any way to change that?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u18	Mr President! If and when Finland wants to succeed internationally in research and higher education, we must take seriously the messages we have received from both the OECD and international evaluation panels and from Finnish research and evaluation, such as the state of science at the Academy of Finland. They show that we need to be able to build stronger centres of expertise and interesting research projects in Finland that can attract the best researchers both internationally and nationally. That's absolutely true. But I want to go back to this teacher training and say it so that we do not get the wrong idea that there is no reduction in teacher training in Finland now, but, rather, we need more teachers who are the best in the world, just as Finnish teachers are in the future. Similarly, the number of training courses for kindergarten teachers will be increased. And we have also launched a teacher training development programme involving all the higher education institutions providing teacher education, and with the help of professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u19	Madam President! We need international success, but we also need assurances that there are enough qualified professionals in Finland. The closure of the Kajaani teacher training centre a few years ago has already shown that this will not happen. There's already a shortage of qualified teachers. Nor can the Ministry ever go behind the autonomy of universities. It is always the responsibility of the government of the country to have knowledge and qualified teachers throughout the country. That is why I would like to ask: are you prepared to negotiate whether another university would like to maintain the Savonlinna Philial, or if this does not happen, are you prepared in the May performance guidance negotiations to take up the option that these places will not move to Joensuu but will be maintained in Savonlinna, for which this solution will mean the same as for Helsinki if more than 20,000 study places left here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u20	Mr President! I repeat that self-government, guaranteed by the Constitution and the University Act, means that universities themselves decide how to teach and where to teach. I have had a lot of discussions on this issue, both with local and regional actors and with the university, as with all Finnish universities, we are currently having a very close dialogue on the agreement negotiations in May for the next four years. I am open to all kinds of discussions in the future too, and they are welcome to visit the Ministry at any time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u21	Madam Speaker! It is extremely important that the Prime Minister, in this important arena, corrected the partly incorrect information that the government did not want to help and support in this matter and said that it is still possible when Mr Gustafsson asked about it. This was incredibly important. I would like to ask the Minister, when Mr Roope Uusitalo came to the conclusion that, in actual fact, the equality of opportunity — i.e. that everyone has the opportunity — is not an essential point, in his view, whether there is a loan or student financial support, but he said in the sideline that the regional, comprehensive university network, on the other hand, is of enormous importance from the point of view of equality of opportunity: how will you in future, when these results-directing negotiations are being conducted and the aim of profiling, that everyone will find their own area of strength in Finland, Europe and the world, intend to promote that regional equality, which is also equal opportunities for young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u22	Mr President! Finland will also have a comprehensive network of higher education institutions in the future in international and Nordic comparisons and will be adhered to. We are preparing for performance agreement negotiations with universities, which are very soon, now in May, and in the autumn with universities of applied sciences, and we have started to ask universities, which are autonomous actors in Finland, even with the protection of the law, how they see their own future and what kind of skills they build their own future. This work is also done at the Academy of Finland, which has focused on profiling funding to support this change. Similarly, we have strategic funding that will help and that has enabled, among other things, this investment of EUR 2 million in the past and can make it possible in the future, and so on. We are strongly involved with universities in the work of building the future higher education system in Finland, and we will also be open to this debate in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u23	Madam President! The fact is that this government did not ensure that teachers in Savonlinna would continue to be trained, unlike the predecessor, Minister Gustafsson. This raises a more general question about the regional policy of this government. Hannu Katajamäki, Professor of Regional Science, gave an exhaustive assessment of the Government's regional policy. He said that there was no mention of it in the government programme. I went to the Government website: they do not say to which ministers regional policy belongs. When it was precisely the centre that talked a lot about ideological concentration last season, yes, now that we look at the decisions of this government, soon there will be no train in the provinces, there will be no post, there will be no judges, there will be policemen, there will be training places.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u24	Mr President! You did not know at the beginning of the question who would answer, but at the end you did.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u27	Madam President! Yes, it is very regrettable that Savonlinna's teacher training has stopped while we remember that it is the heir to the renowned Sortavala women's seminar. I would like to remind Mr Järvinen that when Kajaani's OKL was abolished, I think the Greens were on the board at that time. But in any case, this is a severe blow to Savonlinna's mental atmosphere, and I ask: is the government planning some kind of crisis package for Savonlinna, as has been the case in these industrial cities, which have been hit hard, for example, in the city of Salo?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u28	Who's gonna grab it? Secretary Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u29	Mr President! This solution from the University of Eastern Finland is quite recent, so we have not had much time to discuss this since then. But the idea is that, of course, Savonlinna needs to be discussed with us now about their future and what we can do to support the fact that Savonlinna will continue to be vibrant and that there will be opportunities to study there. And, of course, there are other training actors in the area, other than Savonlinna's teacher training centre, so that we can have a discussion about these too. In other words, in a good dialogue, we will continue to strive to have this debate, as we have done up to now, to ensure that our regions in Finland, Savonlinna and everyone else, manage. This is an important common matter, certainly the will of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u30	Mr President! Power gives us a chance to act, and Gustafsson acted and did not just expect a request from the university. I have always liked to work with red soil, and for myself, regional policy is about creating equality for Finns living in different parts of the country. The best regional policy is to keep the transport routes in order, to ensure the availability of skilled labour and to ensure that basic services for citizens are available to all across the country. It now seems that the market has gained the upper hand over this government and that you are making a historically strong concentration policy, implemented by ministers Berner and Vehviläinen under the leadership of the Prime Minister, and the people in the centre of the provinces are silent. You are on the watershed: either you preserve and strengthen areas and national integrity or you dismantle them. Minister Vehviläinen, I appeal to you to hold on to the vitality of Savonlinna and the country as a whole, rather than stalemate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u31	Mr President! First of all, on the subject of Savonlinna: I visited the university myself. I discussed this future of OKL in Savonlinna, and it became very clear to me that this form of temporary funding, which was this 2 million per year, would not guarantee the future of OKL. This has been the subject of a debate right up to the last metrille, until that decision. And as I said, if the university has a second position on this matter, it can be returned to it if necessary. As far as this regional policy is concerned, quite a lot of decisions have been taken by the government, for example, in order to get the road network repair debt in order: an investment of 600 million around Finland. We have now also made a front-loaded infrastructure package covering the whole of Finland. We also intend to transfer a package of more than EUR 300 million to cover the correction debt during the Government term
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u32	Next question. Congressman Vart.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u33	Madam President! A couple of weeks ago, the basic income testing team led by Kela submitted a preliminary study on how the basic income testing could be carried out in Finland. The study provides a good basis for a successful experiment to genuinely see how basic income affects people's lives, employment and entrepreneurship. It is now time for political decision-making so that the study group can prepare an exact trial model. So I ask Minister Mäntylä: what is the government going to decide about the basic income experiment, and will the money saved from other social benefits be used for the experiment in order to get enough people involved in the experiment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u34	Mr President! The question is the most important. The government is now meeting next week for the first time on this issue to discuss these future agendas. Yesterday, among other things, I discussed this issue with President Niinistö, and I also received excellent ideas on the direction of the opposition and on the direction of the Greens on which you attach great importance. I personally think it is very important that this dialogue should take place between all parties, and I think it is important that we find policies that have a genuine objective. One aspect of this is that we are now going to find out whether it is possible to benefit from these social security benefits, because it would then extend this experiment to a much larger number, and it can also be assumed that these benefits will:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u35	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u36	Madam President! The Government published its Employment and Entrepreneurship Package on Tuesday. There is a lot of good in the package, but there is also a need to tighten up the conditions for unemployment benefit and to increase the value for money. This is precisely the opposite of basic income, which frees people, reduces bureaucracy and always makes work worthwhile. How does the government intend to reconcile these conflicting decisions, and does the government intend to increase employment through coercion or incentive?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u37	Madam President! Yes, I have to be honest with you that both—and that. There's a stick and there's a carrot. I'm not going to hide behind a tree to explain anything. I'm going to be straight with you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u38	Mr President! To the extent that I would continue to say to Mr Lindström that the purpose of this basic income experiment is precisely to find within our system the elements which create these incentives traps and to consider the various options that will always encourage us to accept this work. It is not a simple task. And that is why its research design must be very carefully considered, because we have very challenging elements built into the systems — such as housing allowance and many other such transfers — that must be taken into account here as a whole. But the starting point for a basic income experiment is that we are able to find within the system the problems that cause people to feel, for example, that they have no right or opportunity to control their own lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u39	Madam President! Measures to promote employment, such as this basic income experiment and many of the actions of the entrepreneurship package of the government, are very much to be welcomed. We need more jobs. I also urge the Government to familiarise itself with the model of the City of Vantaa, which employs people with disabilities. They have managed to do the same for both the city and businesses, jobs, real jobs, people with disabilities and people with part-time work. On the other hand, the Government Programme contains good records on disability entrepreneurship, but you did not make any decisions on disability entrepreneurship in the context of the entrepreneurship package. I would ask the government: what are you going to do to promote entrepreneurship for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u40	Madam President! It is, of course, regrettable that whenever these ideas are brought up, it may be that there is such a picture that a group has somehow been left out. It's not intentional. It's true. It's true. The Government Programme has a strong record of those who are able to work part-time and of the coordination of social security and this kind, so that it is also sought to facilitate the entry of those who are able to work part-time. And it is through these experiments that new ideas are sought. This model of Vantaa for disabled people is new to me. I will get to know it, because it may indeed have some potential. As I have said before, all good ideas will be received, and thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u41	Mr President! There were good things in the government's entrepreneurship proposals, above all. There is the possibility of using this start-up money with earnings-related and then other proposals: an innovation voucher and making it easier for the first external worker to hire. But if we start from this broader point of view, then these too are like places where in certain situations facilitating entrepreneurship, and then those means there for the workers on your side were more of it in the streak. Now it would be more important to consider whether this government is a bit like a schizophrenic in the fact that employees are restricted and deprived of benefits and are driven towards working, and then entrepreneurs are made such places for details that are good but do not change the overall setting. And when the starting point is that everyone is made financially viable to be entrepreneurs and make their own choices in life, so are you schizophrenics — freelancers, temporary workers and self-employed who are now in the middle of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u42	Madam President! Of course, I am left to judge — it may be that there are times when you feel schizophrenic when you do this work, but I do not sign that the government somehow knowingly and deliberately attacks a group. Of course, the idea here is that we must first get entrepreneurship, we must get those companies that can employ them. And these are not mutually exclusive in any way and they should not be put against each other. I am now taking advantage of this connection: when this idea-based so-called work sample experiment has come up with some amazing patterns in the public domain, I would like to light it up a little bit. This idea is therefore the idea of an experiment in which this work sample would be entirely voluntary. The unemployed person could decide for himself whether or not he wants to seize this opportunity, go to the workplace and show me whether or not I am in this job. A potential employer may check whether this person is suitable. Unemployment benefit would do this job. Don't shoot your ideas down until they've even been released!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u43	Mr President! It is precisely in this idea that Mr Lindström put forward here that, as you have pointed out, without pay, without leave, without occupational health care and without a pension, the unemployed would have to work or, as you would like to say, get to work. But I have to tell you,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u44	Madam President! It is a good thing that Mr Lapintie, who, in my opinion, used a rather substandard expression which I shall not repeat here, raised this question. You said that you would, that you would, that you were giving the impression that we are creating a system that is forcing something when I just said that this is voluntary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u47	Madam President! The TV’s Tenavat comic book had the Great Pumpkin, which was expected to come and solve all the problems. This basic income is today's Great Pumpkin. It eliminates poverty, it eliminates the traps of incentives, it eliminates bureaucracy, it eliminates the social security jungle and it costs nothing. Let anyone who wants to believe me believe me. I don't think so. But I am in favour of this basic government income experiment because it will certainly also highlight the challenges that such a system will certainly face. The question is that, when we have a system of home-paying social security, and this is particularly difficult for those who enter the new labour market — young people, immigrants and so on — would it not be good to try something that would not be paid home social security for people of working age and capable of working, especially young people, but would always require and offer something meaningful to do that is relevant to these people themselves and to society as a whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u48	Madam President! I did not recognize the question to myself, but nevertheless I stood up when the President told me to. In other words, Mr Zyskowicz is on the trail that we are going in such a direction, where there is more and more responsibility and there is no automation. When we always talk about what encourages and what does not encourage, yes, you must courageously be able to intervene in such things that encourage you to choose that I do not work — because working on this land rises. I am not blaming the unemployed again, I am blaming the system, and that system is being changed here. It also calls for bad decisions, and there will be protests and reactions, but this government dares to take those decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u49	Mr President! Perhaps this question of basic income now has more to do with my sector, even though Minister Lindström was excellent at this. Yes: yes, this must be the case, that people are specifically activated and encouraged to take on such a different kind of work. How it is done is another question, and it is this basic income experiment that aims to find those pains in how we can get people to act and also take more responsibility for their own lives and for their own life management. So the system is built in such a way that being passive at home is not in practice the space to be sought, but the space to be sought is that there is some sort of basic security which also contributes to encouraging people to venture off to different types of work and temporary work without fear of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u50	Madam President, fru talman! These various actions presented by the government this week are in many respects to be welcomed. It is clear, however, that these will not only raise employment in Finland to the level that has been hoped for, and if we look at the targets that the government has set out last week in terms of employment, then it is clear that this will require further action. I would have asked the Prime Minister what further steps will be taken and when further concrete action will be expected to be taken in order to achieve your employment objectives. I would also have asked Minister Lindström that, when you said very well here that the government is open to various proposals, how the government now views, for example, the model of the RKP on how to reform our employment services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u51	Mr President! In this debate, it always seems that one solution should solve the whole problem of 110,000 new jobs. That is not the case. The main factor behind this — which has already happened — is that we are returning to the path of economic growth. At the end of last year, a turn took place. This growth is not enough to achieve the target of a 72% employment rate. The social pact, when it comes to implementation, fulfils a significant part of this remaining objective, i.e. about one third. The measures now being presented, this whole package, will contribute to this, and we need more action. For example, from the beginning of next year there will be changes to the household allowance, there will be an entrepreneurial reduction for non-public limited companies, and it will be important for small businesses in particular that this payment-based VAT account comes into force. We'll have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u52	Madam President! There is not much to add to that Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u53	Mr President! The importance of the growth and employment package has been called for here, and the government also needs respect. I must say that there are a lot of positive things in that package, including in terms of business financing and the development of employment thresholds, and we recognise many Socialist proposals here. But I am now particularly concerned about one thing, and that is that we have 122,000 long-term unemployed people who have been unemployed for over a year — 20,000 more than last year. This government objective, the 72% employment rate, 110,000 new jobs, will not happen unless we get some sense and a turnaround to stop and bring down this long-term unemployment. The average duration of unemployment is already 52 weeks, and if the person is 55 plus, then over 90 weeks — think. That is why we have argued that we should now build such a solid long-term unemployment break-up programme,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u54	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Ihalainen for his thanks and for his constructive approach to this huge problem. Long-term unemployment is precisely the problem that we need to tackle, and these measures, which we are doing now, are also aimed at meeting this challenge. One of the big problems with long-term unemployment is, of course, that these people may no longer be all in the condition that they are ready to find employment in the open market, which is what needs to be invested in. We have now tried to think about the ways in which those people would get off the squirrel wheel so that they would not go there in the procedures to get to the next step. This is the vision we are pursuing. This is quite true, 52 weeks, and if we could shorten this long-term unemployment to 36 weeks, then we would have quite a few problems solved. This is fully known to the government, and we know that money is also needed for it. It will then always be a debate within the government, because and when that money will be invested in these. But Mr Ihalainen drew attention to the right thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u55	Mr President! I think it is a good thing that this basic income experiment is progressing because it wants to tackle a real and genuine, big problem with our social security system, namely that short-term work should not be done when you live on social security. But what is the problem that the government is now trying to solve with this work sample? Does the government think it is a problem to pay a salary for a job? We already have a wide range of flexibility in the Finnish labour market. We have a lot of workers who are not getting along on their salary, and there are already free work in the work trials, and there are already a lot of shortcomings. Minister Lindström, do you not think that it is a big risk that employers will then take people to do these work samples instead of taking paid workers on the payroll?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u56	Madam President! One more wire. This is a case of non-employment, voluntary, short-term employment with unemployment benefit in the positions of potential employers. This will support the discovery of these hidden work opportunities and enable the unemployed to demonstrate their skills, suitability and attitude. Looking for work by doing it will also ease recruitment problems. The concern that this is about creating some wonderful free labour market: I said just now that this model is still in progress. It must be prepared so that these loopholes, quite rightly, must be identified. There are risks here. We need to try to minimize them. And since this is an experiment, if it does not work and find some flaws, they will be corrected, or this model will not come into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u57	Next question. Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u58	Mr President! The reform of social welfare and health care was initially launched in order to ensure equal protection of social and health services for people in the future, regardless of their place of residence and wealth. The key words of the reform were the strengthening of basic health care and the integration of services. The aim was to improve service chains, to narrow the gap between basic and special care and between social and health services, and to simplify the financing and information systems of the service system. There is a real need for social reform, but it seems that the reform has been sidetracked. The reform began at a time when, instead of improving the public service system, the objective was to open up services in the name of freedom of choice to private competition, to the profit of international health giants from tax havens. Last week the government announced that public services will be incorporated in addition to the privatisation of services. Mr President, where have the original objectives been forgotten?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u59	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Sarkkinen, for using 45 seconds of your speech to list the objectives that can still be reduced to one thing: regardless of the size of the place where you live and the size of your purse, the services that you need in social and health care. Those goals have gone nowhere. And as long as those goals are crystal clear, this journey will come. Among other things, the objectives are on schedule to meet the goal of getting care and care and sufficient money. What is the model, what is the course of action — one part of this is, for example, that we have sufficient resources available in Finland. Now we need to find such a social solution and an administrative platform with which all available resources can be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u60	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u61	Mr President! However, it now seems that the reform has become a privatisation and incorporation project. The Minister has claimed that the EU is forcing Finland to company public social and health services. Once again, the government has justified its political value choices through an imaginary EU requirement. Unfortunately, hiding behind a self-imposed EU is not new. The same strategy was used last year to justify the introduction of an administrative register that facilitates the concealment of ownership and tax evasion and again this spring to justify the incorporation of Metsähallitus' forest business. In both cases it has finally been established that the EU does not in fact require or force Finland to make such changes to the law. Now the government is once again justifying its own values by hiding behind the back of the EU. In fact, the EU does not call for public services to be incorporated, i.e. to be transferred to the secrecy of the Companies Act, to fragment the public service system and service chains, and to reduce democracy. I will ask the government whether you believe in these EU packages that you yourself have invented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u62	Madam Speaker! We should constantly bear in mind why this change is being made. Because a population of 5.5 million, regardless of the size and place of residence of the money bag, will continue to receive services that are sufficient to meet the needs for services in the future. You can lead this conversation wherever you want to go to the Caymans.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u65	Mr President, ärade talman! Regeringen har alltså än en gång kommit överens om vårdreformen, och det är bra att man har Slopet sina tidigare planer om A- och B-landskap.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u66	Mr President! Questions of self-government are within the remit of Minister Vehviläinen. But this aspect of social welfare and health care. ( 1) Why are we making this change? Because the money available for the service needs will be sufficient in 10 to 15 years' time. ( 2) Why are we making this change? Because the existence of skilled, knowledgeable staff is sufficient to meet the needs of the service to which we are travelling. 3) This must happen in the native languages of the Republic of Finland, which will mean that Swedish-speaking services must also be secured. 4) Why, for example, are decisions being made on the hospital network? Because we have safe treatment and care when we need it in an acute situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u67	Madam President! We still fully agree with Mr Rehula on this point. The only problem is that your model does not lead to what you are talking about. You speak one, you do another. It has been clear that the Coalition Party has always wanted a private market. But the Finns and the Centre, together with all the other parliamentary parties, are not enthusiastic about this, and I wonder why the Finns and the Centre have now humbled themselves before the National Coalition Party. When we look at the costs, the cost in Sweden rose with freedom of choice, so to speak, with freedom of choice. In view of this solution, which is intended to curb the increase in costs, this incorporation will fragment the system, increase bureaucracy and the treatment chains will not be integrated but will be broken down. HUS CEO Aki Lindén has pointed out that this leads to over-treatment and, in the worst case scenario, to an increase in costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u68	Madam President! First of all, there is no model, a course of action that would be completed one day. Secondly, a model that aims to ensure that a person receives care and care when he needs it, a model that does not have problems that should be solved, does not exist or does not come. The third thing, the one about solving... The basis for our preparation is what we have told the public. For example, what this incorporation means: it means those measures that are within the scope of freedom of choice, mainly in basic health care, basic services and, where appropriate, in specific services, and so that we can have all the resources that exist, it will require the company model to be introduced in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u69	Madam President! The purpose of the Sote reform is indeed to ensure good care for all Finns regardless of their place of residence. We have recently received bad news from the health care sector. We've found a lot of gaps in patient safety. I would like to ask you, Minister, and perhaps, perhaps, to remind us all here in Parliament — when we go to our provinces and take these greetings — as well as in connection with this reform, that it is true that there is also a patient safety theme at the heart of the social welfare reform and that we keep it on the agenda when you are discussing and planning a different basis for this reform. Patient safety affects all of us, and indeed: professional, skilled, timely treatment for all of us when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u70	Madam President! From the point of view of success and access to services, when these services are needed, it will be the fact that information is passed. Another thing related to this timely and unfortunate and regrettable news is that our success with regard to future social services is very much dependent on the success of management, the success of managing change, and that it is possible to ensure that people are actually cared for in the workplace and everyday life and that they are at the heart of the service chain that they need as a service. Mr President! To this acute situation. One part of this law on the organisation of change in social welfare and health care is the way in which and who supervises the activities, whose task it is to identify possible problems and lead things in a better direction. This work is one of the most central parts of the law
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u71	Madam President! Freedom of choice in itself is a very good thing. It is clear that each of us wants to influence who is caring for us. However, the Government's social welfare memorandum states that the province produces social and health services itself or can use services from the private and third sectors. On the other hand, it also states that different producers must be on the same track, which requires that the regions be incorporated into services and forced into competition. I come from South Karelia, the region of Eksote, which, of course, is the most familiar. This means that Eksote must then re-incorporate its activities as well. Eksote has also been a good example of providing its services publicly and also using private service providers. Now it seems that the customers and people have been forgotten and are going into forced company. That is why I ask: how does companying improve the availability of customer services or, for example, how does it improve service packages that already work well in Eksote?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u72	Madam President! One aspect of this question is concern about what it means to be incorporated. Let me also say out loud that the fact that we have public companies is, by the way, a very, very long way off to talk about privatisation, for example. Secondly, this law, the law that is being written, will mean, for example, in Eksote, South Karelia, that elected decision-makers there will resolve within the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u73	Mr President! Now the new social areas decided by the government correspond to the number of existing regions. Based on surveys conducted from municipalities, several municipalities had a desire to change the current province due to their residents’ business and employment areas. Now it seems that this exercise of the will of the municipalities is at stake. I would like to ask Minister Vehviläinen: will the government respect the opinion and the will of the municipalities when comparing the social areas with the present regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u74	Mr President! Indeed, nine municipalities told us that they wanted to go from one province to another. We have not yet had a debate among the government on the situation in these municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u75	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 2/2016 vp, the position on the report is now decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance, with a maximum of 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u76	Mr President! The committee looked into this carefully and, after a debate, finally came to a unanimous report, which I think is a valuable thing on issues of this kind. In fact, there was mainly disagreement in the committee as to why we call this one group of terrorists, which has been at a rather bad and fierce pace over the past year, the couple. Is it Isil or is it Isis or is it Daesh? There are few different views and different practices about this, but in this report the committee concluded that we use the same term as the government in that report. So Isil is the term the committee used in this context, but if anyone wants to use another term in the debate, then everyone will understand what is at stake. Mr President! Since 2015, Finland has participated in security sector training cooperation in Iraq in an education department of some 50 soldiers, which has been active in Erbil in the Kurdish region of Iraq. In February 2016, the joint meeting of the President of the Republic and the Government's Committee on Foreign and Security Policy stated that Finland will continue and strengthen its participation in the training department of the multinational Inherent Resolve operation and in the new department focusing on advice until the end of August 2017. In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it justified to extend and extend Finland's participation. The committee believes that it is important for Finland to participate in international action against Isil, as the activities of the organisation pose a threat to international peace and security. The Committee also feels that it is necessary for Finland to show support to France for this appeal to the EU's mutual assistance obligation following the terrorist attacks in Paris in November. In its report, the committee considers that the application of the mutual assistance clause can strengthen solidarity between EU Member States and the EU as a security community. The EU's common security and defence policy and defence cooperation have a positive impact on Finland's national security and also on its defence performance. From Finland’s point of view, the development of a common security and defence policy is important to strengthen the Union’s external capacity to act in a context where the instability of the EU’s surrounding environment has increased significantly. As a result of the French request for assistance, the EU Member States have taken measures mainly related to military crisis management. From Finland’s point of view, continuing to participate in training cooperation in the security sector in Iraq and extending participation in advisory activities is a natural solution, as the terrorist attacks in Paris and now in Brussels have shown that Isil has extended its activities to Europe. Finland, too, must be prepared for a growing threat of terrorism, regardless of whether Finland participates in the coalition against Isil. Mr President! The situation in Iraq is still fragile and has failed to get on its feet after the war that began in 2003 and the internal violence and disputes that followed. Isil has managed to take advantage of the internal situation in Iraq and to hold a significant part of the country's territory. The fight against Isil is the main priority of the country's government, which at the same time commits a significant part of the resources available to the government. In its report, the committee draws attention to the difficult economic and political situation in Iraq. The tensions between Shies, Sunni and Kurds maintain instability and fuel the support of extremists. The humanitarian situation in the country is very difficult, as as much as one third of the country's population is in need of humanitarian aid. There are more than 3 million internally displaced persons and hundreds of thousands who have fled the country. With the support of a coalition of more than 60 countries, the Iraqi Government has been able to halt the progress of Isil and to resume the re-emergence of the territories that have been taken over. In the short term, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that improving the security situation is a key prerequisite for the stabilisation of Iraq, but in the longer term, the reconciliation process and economic reforms must come to the fore in order to stabilise the overall situation in the country and, in particular, to enable reconstruction and repopulation. Mr President! According to experts consulted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the training provided by the Finnish troops to the Peshmerga forces in Iraq has been effective and good feedback has been received from those trained. The extension of participation in advisory activities proposed by the Government naturally complements education activities. In advisory activities, a department of staff employed by the Defence Forces would support the headquarters of the Peshmerga Corps at Battalion and Brigade level as well as the commanders of the front forces behind the front line. The committee agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Defence that action in a demanding multinational environment of this kind will also benefit domestic defence. The Committee believes that, where possible, efforts should be made to target the training of trainers in particular. In this context, I would also like to thank the Committee on Defence for the good work it has done in drawing up the opinion. It was taken very far, you can say almost completely, into account in this report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr President! In its 2015 report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs drew the attention of Finland to the exceptional fact that it was not possible to conclude an agreement with Iraq on the legal status of troops covering all the participating countries. The committee also considered it undesirable for Finland to have no commonly agreed rules on the use of force for countries participating in education and advice activities. In the context of the continuation and extension of participation, the issue of the status of forces and the rules of force will be resolved on the basis of existing arrangements. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that a mechanism based on the exchange of notes can achieve the main objectives of the status of the force. However, the committee insists that the Government should report to it if no exchange of notes on the status of troops with the Iraqi Government is to be achieved for some reason. On the basis of the information it has received, the committee considers that the power to use an emergency guard is sufficient for the task and for the self-protection of the forces. According to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this is a high-risk operation due to circumstances, although it is a task of training and advice. This is also important to be aware of in this Chamber. The committee agrees with the estimates made by the Committee on Defence in its opinion on the likelihood of threats to Finnish troops and, on the other hand, on the readiness of the forces to face these threats. However, the Defence Forces must continue to assess the adequacy of troops' self-protection in view of possible rapid changes in the security situation in the northern parts of Iraq. Mr President! On the basis of the above, the Committee on Foreign Affairs supports the continuation and extension of Finland's participation in training and advice activities in the security sector in Iraq.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u77	Let us now take Minister Soin's speech and then we shall have a debate. — 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u78	Madam President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has prepared a very commendable report on Finland's participation in security sector training cooperation in Iraq, its continuation and reinforcement. Thank you to the Presidents and Members for that. I would also like to thank the Committee on Defence for the important comments on the safety of our soldiers and the importance of self-protection. I would like to stress that this operation is also about Finland supporting the stabilisation of Iraq. Participation in the Iraqi training mission is and will be an important contribution from Finland. In this economic situation it is also economically important, but above all it is important to stabilise the situation and to overcome Isil, Daesh. However, it must be borne in mind that, through our actions, we also increase our own security. Stabilising Iraq can also address the root causes of migration. After the terrorist attacks in Paris, the government decided to be involved in supporting France. After the terrorist attacks in Brussels, participation in international action against Isil is self-evident for everyone. Only through international cooperation can we achieve lasting results. Cooperation needs to be stepped up by addressing root causes as well as operational level activities, including exchange of information. Mr President! Finland has been active in the training task of the Peshmerga troops for nearly a year now with approximately 50 soldiers. The training mission is part of the U.S.-led anti-Isilin consortium, in which Finland participates together with 60 other partners. We have been commended for our efforts. Action is also important for strengthening our defence capability. The aim is to extend participation from the end of August by one year, until the end of 2017. Training activities will be expanded, and Finland’s total participation will increase from the beginning of September 2016 to 100 soldiers. Finland's participation in the fight against Isilin is part of the global fight against terrorism. It is important for Finland to play its part in this work. At the same time, we will strengthen our transatlantic cooperation. The international coalition against Isilin has made good progress and has managed to retake ever wider areas from Isil. Preparations for the return of Mosul have been launched and the Iraqi forces, supported by the coalition, have managed to draw ever closer to Mosul. The retake of Tikrit is considered a success story. Nearly 90 percent of the population have returned to their homes. Isil's operating conditions in Iraq are deteriorating. Madam President! The debate on referrals to the report already gave strong support for continuing and strengthening cooperation in education and training in Iraq. In many speeches it was excellent that France had introduced the mutual assistance clause 42.7 and that Finland responded to it. The debate stressed that special attention should be paid to the safety of Finnish soldiers in the training operation. This is important. Our assessment is that extending participation in advisory activities will not substantially increase the threat to soldiers. Security will, of course, be taken into account in the light of the Committee's positions. In spring 2015, the status of Finnish personnel was the subject of an exchange of notes between Finland and Iraq, which will cover participation in the future. Finland’s operations focus on comprehensiveness, of which crisis management is only part. The key to solving Iraq's problems is to support the country's economic and social development. In this respect, too, Finland's contribution has not been small. Progress in the country's unity and political process is a prerequisite for achieving longer-term stability, and we agree with the committee on this. Finland, like other EU countries, supports the strengthening of dialogue between the various Iraqi groups in order to ensure the conditions for sustainable development in the country. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has stated in its report that it considers that Finland's continued participation in education cooperation in Iraq is justified and supports the extension of participation. This was also the message of the opinion of the Committee on Defence. The operation is demanding, and the broad political support of Parliament is therefore very important — thank you for that. I appreciate the view of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that it is necessary to give France support following this call for an EU aid clause. I agree with the committee's assessment that our actions would also have a wider impact. The application of the clause can strengthen solidarity between EU Member States and the EU as a security community. Finally, from Finland’s point of view, the development of a common EU security and defence policy is central to strengthening the external capacity for action. It also has an impact on Finland’s national security. This debate will be discussed in more detail in the context of the Foreign and Security Policy Report and the presentations relating to the provision and reception of international assistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u79	Good. It is now possible to have a debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u80	Mr President! Of course, it must be said first of all that the reason for participating in this operation is, of course, that the situation in Iraq will be calmed down and that it will also be possible to curb the potential growing refugee problem in some rational way. But as a side effect, and as a key factor, of course, is also what is happening to our security system in Europe. The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to issues relating to the provision of assistance and the reception of assistance. These are issues that are currently being considered in Finland, of course, and it is good to understand that the European Union is important in terms of the common foreign and security policy, security and defence policy, but it cannot at present be the defence mechanism at international level on which matters relating to the international organisation of Finland's external security are resolved. 42.7 is important, but it is not the European Union's defence system; it is a defence mechanism between the Member States. But it is good that the government is on the move in that respect,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u81	Madam President! This fight against Isil is a matter for all of us. Therefore, Finland must also participate in it. This is also a concrete response to France on the basis of this EU aid clause 42.7 and we therefore responded positively when France asked for it. The Committee on Defence paid particular attention to security in this operation, because they are never risk-free. There are threats in the air, roadside bombs, chemical weapons and so on. We paid special attention to our personal protection. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence how to ensure that the self-protection of Finnish trainers works, that we have the necessary tools to protect ourselves there and that the safety of our soldiers is ensured by all means in this operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u82	Madam President! It is important that everything is done to defeat Daesh, and this operation is important. We're training local actors in the fight against Daesh. It also responds to the French request for assistance. We have paid attention to safety, and I would like to thank Minister Niinistö and Minister Mäntylä. True Finnish ministers have done excellent work on the veteran program of crisis veterans, that is to say, at the worst, we are concerned about every woman and every man we send. I understand that all Kriha veterans will receive a card this year or have already received it, and now these last parts are in preparation at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. When Minister Mäntylä is not here, I will ask Minister Niinistö, who has also taken to heart this Kriha-veteran programme: will it be completed and put into effect this year?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u83	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that Finland, as one European State, will respond to the French Presidency on 17 November. on the day of last year's request for assistance by participating in this operation, Erbil, now with an even more powerful force. When you give help, you can sometimes ask for it yourself. In its own assessment, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that the application of this assistance clause can strengthen solidarity between EU Member States and EU security cooperation. For the rest, too, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the fact that the comments made by the Committee on Defence in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs have also been carefully taken up. This cooperation in education and training strengthens the defence of our own country, even according to the opinion of the Committee on Defence. But I ask when there is an opportunity to ask the ministers about this risk assessment, which the Committee on Defence also drew attention to: the operation will take place in a high-risk category. In addition to suicide bombers and roadside bombs, chemical weapons are also a threat. In the Committee on Defence, the matter was extensively discussed and a good report was made that we also have the capacity to combat new kinds of threats. How do ministers see this high risk?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u84	Mr President! I suppose the risk assessment is based on whether this activity is the same as it used to be, and it must now be recognised and recognised that the nature of the activity changes. If, in the past, training in the training unit was centralised and now, with this expanded activity, some of the troops are providing support and training in the battalion level of training to the headquarters, then it knows that even Finnish soldiers will then be very close to the front lines if they can be defined, and then it will have a direct impact on what can happen. I wanted this to be recorded, and I have already spoken about this in the referral debate. But I am not as enthusiastic about this transatlantic cooperation as Minister Soini. If we are to support it, we must also remember what is at the root of Iraq or, for example, North Africa, when we think about what is happening in Libya and what can happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u85	Mr President! In the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we stress that training activities should be targeted, as far as possible, at training trainers, as this would increase their effectiveness. I see this as essential. When participating in various crisis management operations — as would be the case here — and Finland's involvement in security sector training cooperation in Iraq — it must always be borne in mind that the aim is that education activities will continue to be of a high quality even after the Finns have left Erbil. I myself used to remind my international police colleagues in operational crisis management missions that our main goal is to make ourselves redundant, that is to say to keep working on people's ability to act independently in their own countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u86	Madam President! It goes without saying that Finland must take responsibility for international security. Isil is a threat to the entire global order. The continuation of the multinational operation is highly justified. Erbil's operation also has a migration dimension. Finland's interest is to stabilise the situation in a country from which more asylum seekers arrive in Finland than anywhere else, and in this regard I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin the first question: what is the current situation with regard to the Iraq Return Agreement, these negotiations? My second question relates to foreign fighters. In Finland, too, dozens of people have entered the ranks of Isil to fight, and it is incomprehensible that people who voluntarily enter the ranks of the barbaric organisation can return to Finland at all, and apparently the foreign fighter issue is currently being discussed at EU level. I'd like to ask you what's going on here. Has there been any news at EU level regarding foreign fighters?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u87	Mr President! I also think it is important that both committees in this House, as usual in this House, give this project a very broad consensus that this training activity in Iraq should continue. It also gives Finnish trainers and members of UN forces a good opportunity to train and update their own information. Security must always be given attention, and I also ask Minister Niinistö whether Finnish equipment is currently up-to-date. In this regard, Mr Mustajärvi also pointed out that, when more people go there, the risks are increasing all the time, but I think that the risk already exists there, and this issue of security needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u88	Madam President! In the Government's report to Parliament on the continuation and strengthening of Finland's participation in the educational liaison work in Iraq, the issue is the fight against Isil. In Finland, knowledge is good and it must be possible to use it in training and counselling tasks. The terrorist attacks that have shocked the world in Paris and Brussels are a source of fear, both in the world and in Finland, and the committee's report also mentions the need to prepare for terrorist threats in Finland. I am not a member of the Committee on Defence or of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but I am bringing that message from the citizens and I ask them, when the ministers, you are both here, in what way we, here in Finland, prepare ourselves for this terrorist threat. Fear should be given no place, but we should look forward to the future, yet fear is still present as a result of recent events.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u89	Mr President! Finland has been credited and hopefully will continue to be distinguished in its crisis management tasks – we are widely known for it as an exemplary country in the world. It is also very good that there are a number of representatives of crisis management experience in Parliament and that this issue is also considered important for the whole of Parliament. I would like to continue with that speech by Mrs Ruoho, who said that, when these training operations are stopped there, for example in Iraq, how to ensure that the locals have a real chance of continuing their training activities where they are able to build enough local skills there to combat this Isil and otherwise to promote its security situation locally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u90	Madam President! With this in mind, I would now like to ask both ministers about the so-called impact assessment, as this operation is now being continued — and it has already been stated that there is a reason for it — and next autumn, August, then we will have more soldiers than we have so far. How will the impact assessment now be carried out in order to achieve the objectives that have been set? And what about when this year's deadline ends, when we here at national level will take your view of a new debate on whether to continue this operation or to withdraw our troops, our trainers? I believe that this is an extremely important issue, not only in terms of preparation for the future, but also in view of the fact that there will certainly be no sudden movements and rapid effects on the ground. I would therefore ask for your assessment of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u91	Madam President! Now we are dealing with this Erbil report and we are putting the first fish on the boat, but if you think about the future at this stage, even though the operations in the Syrian region and in the Iraqi region are continuing, there is still a situation in which Isil has been forced to withdraw from Syria and, at the same time, the pressure is increasing, for example, in relation to this asylum crisis in Libya, where Isil has a strong foothold. If these disputes are now escalating into more and more different countries and the same types of crisis are expanding into more unpredictable further crises: has Finland already prepared for the ability, if necessary, to go into larger operations — you may say, more than one operation — at the same time? To conclude, I would like to say that it is excellent that the whole Parliament, together with its own report, is here. It is a great value for such a Finnish society to be involved together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u92	Madam President! The humanitarian situation in Iraq is very serious, which has been widely reflected in Europe. And, as has been said, in the short term, improving the security situation is a key prerequisite for the stabilisation of Iraq, and it is in itself a very good thing that Finland is involved in this work. Several good comments have been recorded during the hearings of the committees in relation to this operation. Mr Ruoho said here that it is important that we do work which, in the long term, makes our work unnecessary, and in the sense that it is good that it is recorded here that training activities should be targeted, as far as possible, at training trainers. The Committee on Defence has also drawn attention to the importance of the veteran programme in the future and should be completed by the end of 2016. And on this point I would have asked the Minister for Defence to tell me at what stage we are going to take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u93	Madam President! The reason for this expansion of the training programme is, as has been pointed out many times in the debate, the Treaty of Lisbon and its assistance clause: solidarity with other countries, the right to assistance at the worst time and the obligation to provide assistance at the worst. Our legislation is not exactly up to date with what we promised in the Treaty of Lisbon, and that is why we are responding in this way. NATO countries will be protected by that article 5 But I would ask Minister Niinistö: How do you interpret these security guarantees in the Treaty of Lisbon? Is it in the best interests of such a non-military country to have as limited an interpretation as possible or as broad an interpretation as possible? I myself represent such a broad interpretation, which would also help us if at some point we are in the same situation as France, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u94	Mr President! In addition to that presentation, I thought, when there are two key ministers here, that we should ask about this other contribution to the French request for assistance. What else is planned, and how in the pipeline and when are decisions to be made? I understand that there is a strong reflection on this strengthening of the Lebanese mission, which would seem quite natural. We have been there for a long time, our work is valued, Finnish expertise is needed there. Is it the case that the government is going to bring proposals to Parliament on this matter shortly, and if so, can you perhaps tell us a little about what you have planned on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u95	Mr President! Firstly, what may not have been mentioned here is that there is the greatest, perhaps most immediate, risk in the region if the city of Mosul is to be taken back. It is not a day-to-day event, and in any case our own office is less than 100 kilometres away from all of this. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs when it comes to this position of Finland in relation to the EU solidarity clause and the aid clause, both, and this reception of foreign aid — and its reciprocally, of course — is a big question, to which our legislation does not at present give a correct or in any way adequate answer, that it would be possible, Minister Soini, to imagine that this aid clause, as a separate issue, would also be clearly mentioned in the Government's report on foreign and security policy which is currently being prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u96	At this point, when no response has been requested, perhaps the Minister... Which minister? Minister Soini first, and perhaps the Minister of Defence afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u97	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate and good questions. I will try to answer as many people as possible, and then Minister Niinistö will probably complete. But if I start with this question by Mrs Kanerva, it is a good thing that we are going to deal in depth with these various clauses, because when the Treaty of Lisbon came into force, the aid clause was interpreted as military support for the Member State which activated the clause. Now that these threats have varied, so is the concept of possible forms of assistance. This must definitely be taken into account. There's a little bit of these coming in here, but I'm trying to go through it. Mr Juvonen asked about these security issues. They are absolutely essential, and they are also the people who may come back from there: how they are prepared for it. Terrorism knows no borders. We cannot rule out the possibility that terror will come here. We can't shut his eyes. We are not free from this globally networked terrorism, and this is a good thing to remember. At the same time, there is this threat from the foreign fighters. That is why we need international cooperation. That is why we have also had the expertise of the protection police in this planning of operations, and now, in the spending limits debate, the protection police were given an additional EUR 2 million. These are extremely important issues. There is also a need for cooperation between the Muslim community, because in these communities where there are these departures there must be our antennae, there must be our intelligence and there must be a variety of information in order to prevent this radicalisation. Then there are these training and advisory tasks. This is actually a good idea to clarify how these are different. In other words, our department provides training in the Erbil training centre for the Kurdistan peshmerga fighters from the basic skills of the soldier to the team level, including medical training and this type of training. On the other hand, the Finnish department would support the Brigade and Battalion-level headquarters of the Kurdistan security forces. Now we're gonna do both. Then again, Mr Kanerva said about Mosul. It is a very big city, and if it is taken back in such a way that it is actually done through powerful military action, then it is terrible. That is what we should be aware of, that Daesh will not leave it voluntarily and, unfortunately, the first and biggest victims of many military operations are civilians. They can also be used as human shields and all sorts of things in this. This is a difficult matter, isn't it? Then there was reference to Libya, I think there was representative Kari. It is precisely this risk here that, when Isil gets more crowded in both Syria and Iraq, it will be looking for other routes, and at the moment that other route is Libya. There is the city of Sirt, which is already very close to Isil. There's been confirmed reports of both land-based and sea-based Isil fighters. This is also a very important source of income for them: they sell oil, and no matter how filthy and bloody oil it is, buyers have always been found. The fact that we are losing funding for this group of terrorists is extremely important, tackling these root causes. If we could now understand how to work together in Europe and in the West, because the fact was that we knew that there were many refugees in Libya, Jordan and Turkey, but when it wasn't on our doorstep, we didn't really care, and only when this flood started did we start to hear better and there was more action. Similarly, these brutal acts of terror brought it even closer. Now we must not make the same mistake with Libya. We need cooperation with the Libyan Government, and fortunately there is now a fragile government, because, for example, getting the blessing of the UN, the mandate, depends on cooperating with the government. Well, now, for example, this government can ask for help. If there is no government, you cannot ask for help, and then there is no UN mandate and everything else is more difficult. So there's hope in this respect. Then they asked about the return agreements. Negotiations are under way at civil service level with both Afghanistan and Iraq. It's really tricky, but I'd like to remind you that Sweden, for example, has a return agreement like this, a forced return agreement. They've been forced to return 20 of them. Five aircraft have left Finland voluntarily, and this is the way in which this matter is being handled. Italy, for example, has a very bad experience with Pakistan. They have a return agreement with Pakistan. A big plane flew from Italy to Pakistan, and Pakistan refused to accept it, and then it went back in full cargo. That is where we need Europe-wide cooperation. It would be good for all the countries of the Union to have a similar agreement that here would be such a uniform practice. And yes, we must dare to say to Iraq and Afghanistan the same thing when we negotiate aid for them, we must be able to demand that you then take care of this side when these refunds come in, that they can be made. I think this is important. Mr Mustajärvi then asked about his favourite topic of transatlantic cooperation. That's a good question. Finland's foreign policy and the foreign policy of this government have a few priorities, which are of course also my own: one is Arctic cooperation, Baltic Sea cooperation on a large scale, There seems to be quite a lot of answers now that if the Minister of Defence is allowed to be supplemented. Then if you think of anything else, I'd be happy to answer more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u98	Mr President! Thank you for your support and for your constructive contributions. I shall try to supplement Mr Soin's response. Mr Savola, Mr Kari and Mr Pakkanen paid full attention to the safety of Finnish troops, as has also been done by both the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs in their opinion and report. There is no doubt that this is a high-risk operation. It is therefore good to ask how the Defence Forces have assessed this adequacy of self-protection. The threat posed by suicide bombers, roadside bombs and chemical weapons is serious, but the Defence Forces, particularly in the light of the experience of the ISAF mission in Afghanistan, have a reasonably good ability to prepare for the threat of security posed by roadside bombs, for example. However, I encourage the Defence Forces to constantly assess the adequacy of self-protection because situations change. The adequacy of self-protection shall be assessed on the basis of information received from the mission area. For example, I can mention the changes in the way Isis, Isil, Daesh — or by what name everyone now wishes to call this barbaric organisation — in the way of action, in the way of possible attacks and in the overall development of the security situation. The safety of Finnish troops must also take into account chemical weapons whose use or threat of use in the area is real. Protection material, including protective equipment and detectors, has been sent to the mission. We are also trying to acquire expertise in the field of protection in the new contribution. The Finnish department has rented armoured vehicles at its disposal, so travelling in Kurdistan is reasonably safe if such a wording can be used in general. The local safety authorities are operating in a relatively effective manner. Representatives Heinonen and Mäkelä asked about a more precise timetable for the crisis management veteran programme. Unfortunately, I have no answer. Mr Heinonen also asked for my personal opinion on the so-called security guarantees of the Treaty of Lisbon. That was the word Mr Heinonen used. Personally, I would not use the word'security guarantee' in this sense when talking about the Treaty of Lisbon, especially Article 42.7, in order not to confuse oatmeals and wolverines. I am referring here to Article 5 of NATO. In any case, the Finnish line and the Finnish interest are a flexible interpretation of this article, and the French request for assistance after the Paris terrorist attacks has been a good exercise for both Finland and other EU countries. It is necessary to follow this process closely: record how the process has progressed and, above all, learn lessons. I understood that this was what Mr Kanerva, the chairman of the Committee on Defence, referred to, for example, in his report work, to draw attention to this process. But at this point, my firm opinion is that Finland's defence planning cannot be counted on EU agreements, but as a militarily non-aligned country we are preparing for an independent defence. All key performances must be in our own hands, but of course we are prepared to receive help from our partners, for we can get help if it is of benefit to the donor party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u99	We shall now proceed to the list of We will also continue with the list of speakers on someone's journey, and then, if necessary, we will have a debate after a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u100	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank both ministers for their expert answers. This report has been carefully discussed by both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee. This fight against Isil is our common cause throughout Europe and the world. This brutal terrorist organisation calls for drastic countermeasures, which is why Finland, too, is already involved in this operation with more than 60 other countries. This is also a concrete response to France, which, on the basis of the EU assistance clause 42.7, asked Finland, like other EU countries, to join. In other words, Finland responded positively and in this way also in concrete terms. Mr. Speaker! Finland now has about 50 soldiers in Erbil, and we have trained Iraqi security forces in Kurdistan, the so-called peshmerga forces there. The experience of this has been good: we have achieved results there and, among other things, we have been able to reduce losses for these troops when they have received the right military training. So the Finns are training the basic skills of a soldier on the ground. Our troops have a good reputation, which is a good thing, and we also have experience in such tasks. It is a good feature to note that Finnish expertise is valued in that world. And we do not only have professional soldiers there, but perhaps even more so this is based on the reserve people, that is, the civilian skills we have, then, through our reserve army, we can also make use of these international missions, and we can be proud of that. Mr. Speaker! The Committee on Defence paid particular attention to security in this operation. The threats are real, as we have already been through in this debate: there are roadside bombs, suicide bombers, chemical weapons, indirect fire — all these things we have to prepare for. It is therefore extremely important that we are prepared for this. We have our own shelter in order, and our friends there have the best equipment available — armored vehicles, equipment, and so on — to prevent the worst of it from happening to any of our soldiers. This must be maintained and, as we heard from the Minister of Defence, this has happened and is happening. And I also think it is extremely important that this is followed up extremely closely, that impact assessments are carried out and that we respond to the need. Our Finnish soldiers, our trainers, do not take part in the actual battle, but of course the right to self-defence is, and this must of course be the case. This is, of course, one part of that important self-protection in this task. Mr. Speaker! Many times, then, these international operations ask what it is that the Finnish Defence Forces should do: when we should defend our own country, why do we participate in international missions and various operations? At least I think it is extremely important that all these operations in which we participate have a strengthening effect on our national defence capabilities — the experience gained from that world strengthens our national defence capabilities. This operation is certainly one of the challenging operations that we now have experience to safeguard our own ability, and that is, of course, an important issue. This report was unanimous, for which I thank all the participants. On behalf of the Party of European Socialists, I can say that we are in favour of:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u101	Mr President! In the Government's report to Parliament on the continuation and strengthening of Finland's participation in security sector education cooperation in Iraq, the issue is the fight against Isil or Isis, whatever the term we use. The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs now before us states that success Above all, the fight against Isil depends on the ability and will of the countries themselves and on international support. In Finland, Defence Forces know-how is good and expertise should be utilised in crisis management operations focusing on training and advisory tasks. It is justified that training activities should continue. Since the recent terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels, participation in international action against Isil has become increasingly important. The attacks have shown that the war on terrorism in Europe has not yet been won at all. What about Boko Haram’s actions in Nigeria? After all, the terrorist organisation has pledged allegiance to the Isis organization in Syria and Iraq. The kidnapping of schoolgirls and the use of children in terrorist acts is deeply shocking. The attacks on children are groundbreaking and reprehensible. In the movie Wonderland Oz Dorothy girl flies with a hurricane from her village to another world. The girl talks to her little carntrier: "Toto, I think we are not in Kansas anymore." In Finland, too, we need to be prepared for an increasing terrorist threat. This phrase has become familiar to all of us and is also addressed in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We in Finland too, like people around the world, have to tell our children that we are no longer in that old world. This world has changed in every way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u102	Mr President! The background to this issue, which we are now dealing with, is the events that started in the Arab Spring. With the Arab Spring, the unrest in the various countries did not end only in the victory of democracy and the overthrow of the dictators, but in some countries there remained dictatorial power and in some cases, after the coups and the uprising, an unstable situation. This is also the result of the rise of the terrorist organisation Daesh, and this is also the result of the terrorist attacks in Europe. Whether they are genuine or not, they have a clear connection with the thinking and ideology of this organisation. Our government has decided to continue and strengthen our participation in a multinational operation in Erbil, Northern Iraq. The overall strength of participation will be increased to around 100 of the present 50 soldiers for a year, and this is quite justified in this situation, even though some results have been achieved in the fight against Daesh. In fact, when you look at the events of the past few days, the risk assessments will certainly increase even more than they could possibly be done by a terrorist organisation. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs and we in the Committee on Defence said, the threat posed by suicide bombers, roadside bombs and chemical weapons is serious, although there is no significant change in the risk assessment formally to that previous decision-making process that took place in 2014. At the time, the Committee on Foreign Affairs already stated that this is a high-risk operation due to circumstances, even though it is a training task. Perhaps these chemical weapons were brought up in the expert hearings of the Committee on Defence. Perhaps I myself think that these victories that have now been made from Daesh can bring about precisely the kind of action that the rat driven into the corner operates, that is to say, something surprising, is being aggressively attacked. They may be attacks of this kind either on this educational area or, as has happened now, on the countries involved in this training operation and in the fight against Daesh. That is why we must also ensure that national security legislation and intelligence legislation are up-to-date, that we are informed and that we are able to prevent possible attacks from which we are not necessarily completely safe here in northern Europe. That is why I personally support the updating of our legislation so that we can, and our authorities, be able to respond as effectively as possible to these potential threats that exist. At the same time, we must also remember that internal security may also be shaken by this type of activity, and we must be prepared to be able to respond to domestic security as well. It means border control, it means police resources, resources, and so on. It has now been proved what some in this Chamber have been talking about and have been severely criticized when it comes to the flow of refugees, for example. According to the media reports, the people who attacked Belgium have at least taken advantage of this power and moved to Belgium and made the attack. In other words, even this possibility must be prepared and followed by movement, i.e. that when others are in distress and moving, criminals may also take advantage of it, like those responsible for the terrorist attack in Belgium and also those responsible for the attack in Paris. Mr President! Full support for this task of training — and, as I said and called for in my own debate on the crisis management veteran programme, I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u103	Mr President! I am referring to the referral debate on this issue when it was intended to see a more general decision on a single operation being taken in this decision on a common European foreign and security and defence policy, and this is not the case. We accept this follow-up decision, but it is not a position on any policy issue in relation to European decision-making. And then on the subject of this Lisbon aid clause: It is extremely important that this process continues to be a bilateral and genuinely bilateral process, that the assisting country should be able to decide how to fulfil its legal obligation under the Lisbon Treaty. That is what we in the Left Alliance will bear in mind when national legislation is being rejected, and I believe that I am speaking not only on behalf of myself but also on behalf of my group. When Finnish soldiers are sent out for the use of force, we will look very carefully at what tasks, on what grounds and what results. It may be that the handling of national legislation is not as unanimous as it has been in the decision-making of this operation. Personally, I fear that when Finland has, for example, this NATO host agreement and then there is the Treaty of Lisbon, and if national legislation is changed in a certain direction, then, for example, the pressure on one Member State of the EU may become so intense that, in reality, that bilateral process will no longer take place, but that individual Member State will have to yield to the so-called common will of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u104	Mr President! As the chairman of our committee and the Foreign Minister also said, we believe that the continuation and extension of Finland's participation are justified. The Committee on Foreign Affairs believes that it is necessary for Finland to provide support to France following this appeal to the EU's mutual assistance obligation. It is also important for Finland to participate in international action against Isil, as the activities of the organisation pose a threat to international peace and security. Finland's participation in the fight against Isil is part of the global fight against terrorism, which requires a long-term approach and a wide range of means. There is an effective fight against terrorism by having an overall impact on countries in crisis. I therefore call for the EU civilian crisis management operation to support a comprehensive solution. Civilian crisis management can have an impact on the root causes of the problems. Representative Savola explained well why Finland should participate in crisis management missions abroad. It is true that by acting on international missions, we will also develop our national skills and thus our capacity for action at home. The experience gained in international tasks should then be better exploited. "As a disadvantage, I see that in the most extreme circumstances of more than one year of work, these domestic
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u105	Mr President! Crisis management, be it military or civilian crisis management, is a long-term work, work done under difficult conditions and often over many years. Through it, crisis management work should be seen as a wider entity. Sipilä’s Government’s Government Programme set out to save hundreds of millions of euros from development cooperation and also tens of millions of euros from crisis management work. Finland has long, for years, had a crisis management strength in the world of about 600 classes, and the government programme had included this level in the strength of about 90 soldiers or persons. However, now, in the midst of world crises and, for example, the situation in Lebanon, Finland has still maintained its crisis management strength among the 600, and this is certainly justified in many ways. Therefore, it is appropriate and justified to ask whether during the report on foreign and security policy, it is time to update the whole of crisis management through joint investigation by the Finnish Government and the Sipilä Government as well as by this Parliament as a whole. By this I mean not only the number of people, but also budget appropriations and the content of crisis management resources. Like the Minister. In the course of the debate on the report, Mr Soini said that the crises are unlikely to stop at the moment in Syria or in the Iraqi region, but there is a great risk of the crises being escalated. Minister According to Soin too, one of the most important directions for the spread of crises is the Libyan region. I hope that the Government will also consider bringing a wider package to Parliament during its work on foreign and security policy reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u106	Mr President! To this speech by Mr Kari, it is good to keep in mind that Finland has at its best had more than 2,000 soldiers in the world at the same time doing peace-keeping tasks in the 1980s and 1990s, and the decades have this good tradition and reputation that Finns have achieved in peace-keeping missions over the decades. The question of a foreign fighter was raised here, which in itself has nothing to do with this matter at hand. But I hope that this issue will also be discussed and decided in Parliament shortly. It is interesting to know what is going on with these few dozen fighters who have already gone and come back from Finland — what's going on with those gentlemen or ladies and how the Finns will have to take responsibility for them, perhaps in health care and such matters. I think that this should be clarified. Minister Niinistö must be commended for his good response to these questions about security. Here, Mr Heinonen has asked many times about this programme of crisis management veterans and how it is going. According to my own information from the Peacekeeper Federation, the project is progressing during this year. At the mouth of President Kiljunen, they were pleased that money was coming for this. And then, in time, this veteran status and ID will probably come to me. We must remember that Finns have also received the Nobel Peace Prize. In this 60th anniversary of peacekeeping, it is good to remind you that in 88 Finnish Peacekeepers
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u107	And in view of this, my last speech: the chairman of the committee, Mrs Kaikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u108	Mr President! It was good to listen to this debate, which made a lot of sensible speeches. That is a good example of what Mr Pakkasen has just said — and Mr Karin, Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, was not a bad example. The government has had to react to these situations. This is the French request for help and the Erbil operation. There will probably be some more, as I mentioned earlier, to strengthen the Lebanese mission, it may well come up soon. So it is good to discuss, evaluate and plan, but in any case we must leave room for situations that we simply cannot anticipate. We must have the readiness and, if necessary, the resources to act accordingly, so that we can maintain this important good reputation for peace-keeping and, for our own small part, help in world crises. It is also our own interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u109	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 5/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u110	Mr President! Here I am presenting the report of the Administrative Committee on the new Customs Act. The purpose of this proposal is to replace the existing customs law by a new law of the same name. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Union Customs Code and the Commission Regulations supplementing and implementing it will apply on 1 May 2016, and the proposed legislative reform will include this national legislation for the application of EU law. According to this new Customs Code, the EU will move towards mandatory electronic customs declarations through a transitional period by the end of 2020. The purpose of this proposed package of legislation is also to take account of other developments in national and EU legislation and customs activities. The aim is to align the rules on customs taxation and procedure with those on other types of tax, as well as the provisions on customs' powers of action with those on the police and border guards. The overall reform is also intended to improve the structure and clarity of the law, as this law currently in force has become quite fragmented due to the numerous changes made to it. The Administrative Committee considers this overall reform to be necessary and important. The Customs Act is a general law whose laws are generally applicable to all customs activities, unless otherwise provided otherwise. Customs is responsible for collecting customs duties and taxes, and it is the duty of Customs to monitor compliance with the provisions laid down to combat threats to the health, safety and the environment caused by goods. Customs prevent and detect customs offences and conduct pre-trial investigations and, in cooperation with the police, Customs and the Border Guard, pursue these common objectives. Customs also carries out other official work. The Committee on Finance then adopted an opinion on these changes to the tax laws and stated that they were mainly technical changes caused by the Union Customs Code, to which the Committee has no comment. However, some of these provisions are directly linked to the proposals for the so-called 'Preparatory project' or to another project in progress, which explains and implements the transfer of Customs' tax duties to the Tax Administration, and the Committee on Finance states that the need to amend the provisions contained in the tax proposals now under consideration must then be resolved in the context of the examination of these proposals. According to the Committee on Finance, these provisions of the present proposal can be adopted unchanged in this context. These laws, which the Committee on Finance has raised here, include the Excise Act and the provisions of the Automobile Tax Act. Well, then this proposal has also been issued by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has examined in its own opinion the scope and criteria of the customs powers contained in this proposal, certain individual powers, powers of order, Customs' right of appeal, set-off, protection of personal data and the protection of private life, as well as rules on penalties, and indeed pointed out a number of needs for supplementing and clarifying the draft customs legislation. According to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, these legislative proposals can be dealt with in the order of the ordinary law, but 1. However, the draft law only takes due account of the provisions of Article 91 and Article 94 of the Constitutional Law of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have also been discussed in more detail here too, in the detailed explanatory memorandum to this report, in connection with these points. According to a report received by the Administrative Committee, the legislation submitted is not estimated to have an impact on the processing beyond the tax limit of the Åland Islands. And the committee believes that, in applying EU law, this will not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on the Åland Islands or trade there. And on the basis of the reasons for the government proposal and the report it has received, the Administrative Committee considers that the proposal is necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of legislative proposals, with the following comments and amendments in these detailed explanatory memorandums, as well as the adoption of one new legislative proposal. The committee considers it important that the overall reform of customs legislation should be monitored and this report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u111	Madam President! The chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Mattila, gave a good and comprehensive presentation of this reform of the Customs Act and of the committee stage. The preparation of this customs law in committee — during the history of its committee, when I myself have been in committee for five years — is not one of the easiest ones to prepare for it. The committee did a great deal of work by means of extensive consultation and also by means of long-term discussions. The result is quite good, at the very least so good that it could have been brought here to the hall. I would like to raise one point in particular, and it relates to the whole force used in connection with the General Act in connection with the Customs Act, and I would hope that in the future the powers of the authorities will be prepared in greater cooperation between the various ministries and with those within the ministries, including the police department and the Police Government and so on. I also attach great importance to the point that is also found in the committee's report. In one way or another, the Ministry must give the Administrative Committee an assessment of the impact of the committee's and the government's proposals within the Customs Act on Customs' activities. I hope the effects are positive. As the President said, the committee's report was unanimous and, in other respects, the committee's work is very comprehensive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u112	Mr President! Overall, the overall reform of the Customs Act is a very complex, multi-dimensional entity. The proposal brought to Parliament was criticised in many ways. The proposal was considered flawed in various ways, and in this context I would like to raise just a few words in this connection. After all, the Customs Act is a general law applicable to Customs' activities, the provisions of which are actually applied as a general law to all Customs' activities. There are many reasons for the overall reform of the customs law, as the chairman of the committee said: the most important of them is the overall reform of the EU Customs Act. As a result, customs law ties are very extensive. The whole, as I said, is very complex. It has also been seen in this preparation. This wide range of Customs activities: Customs carries out EU trade policy tasks, i.e. export, import and transit-related tasks, i.e.: Customs collects customs duties and manages other customs activities. It will also monitor compliance with health, safety and environmental restrictions. Customs also carries out customs crime prevention and cooperates with the authorities. In addition, there are specific national legislation on this issue, including cooperation between the PTR authorities. The new EU Customs Code is now moving towards a mandatory electronic customs declaration after a certain transitional period, which is a very big change. In practice, after a transitional period, all customs procedures, including back-up procedures, will continue to be electronic. Customs activities are largely regulated by EU legislation, in particular the Customs Code and regulations adopted under it. In addition to this, there is, for example, a duty-free regulation and there are international agreements. The EU Customs Code also requires Member States to provide additional regulation in their national legislation. The Customs Code also imposes obligations on the Member States, for which it is required by national law to determine who fulfils these obligations. It follows from all this that customs legislation is a truly complex whole and does not seem as clear or transparent as we have traditionally required legislation. In addition, it has been necessary to take account of changes in national legislation in this draft customs legislation. The current Customs Act originally dates from 94 C.E. and the structure and content of the law have become fragmented due to the numerous changes made to the law. Through this too, there has been a clear need for this overall reform. As I said earlier, the proposal brought to Parliament at the beginning of the legislative reform seemed poorly drafted and prepared. I myself was pretty strongly impressed by that assessment. In the course of this debate, however, we have come to the conclusion that, in fact, the whole of the draft customs legislation had been prepared quite carefully, even though some things were found to be corrected. For example, the Constitutional Committee had many comments, two of which were constitutional. The explanatory statement of the proposal could and should have opened up many things or more details, which would have made it easier to understand and also removed the confusion about the content itself. All in all, this increased the work of the Administrative Committee. In order to ensure that legislation is prepared as carefully as possible, I would like to make one comment in this regard — in fact, the same comment that Mr Kari has drawn attention to in his recent speech. It was, and is very regrettable, that the powers of Customs, for example, with regard to the use of force or other activities which should be compared with the police and the Border Guard, were obviously not sufficiently developed in cooperation with these bodies. This became very much feedback during the committee hearings. Overall, the comparison was very challenging. There were also many differences between police law and border guards. Closer cooperation at the preparatory stage could have dispelled suspicion of content and perhaps also helped to spell out some points more clearly. There is a need to learn more from this. As regards the drafting of legislation, there are also two other points. It is important to remember that provision is made for the prevention, detection and detection of customs offences and for the prosecution of suspects of customs offences. The Customs Penal Code, which came into force in June last year. The EU Customs Code, which will enter into force on 1 May 2016, was adopted some years ago, but the Commission regulations complementing it were adopted only at the end of last year. It is clear that it has influenced the timetable for the adoption of the customs bill, but instead, for example: There has been quite a lot of time available to prepare and compare the rules on customs' powers with those of the police and the Border Guard. That time may not have been sufficiently utilised in drafting the law. In any case, I dare say that the legislative package on the basis of parliamentary work has now been prepared with great care, and here too I would like to thank Mrs Rinne very much, particularly thanks, Mr HaVin, the Committee on Administrative Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It has taken a great deal of work to work on this piece of legislation. I also agree with Mr Kari's statement that the operation of this law must be monitored and seen in a certain way in the future. Mr President! In short, at the end. In connection with this legislative reform, problems were encountered in the management of Customs. Of course, the committee does not have the opportunity to seek a solution to them, but I personally understand that the very contradictory situation in the current management of Customs cannot in any way last very long.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u113	Madam President! There is therefore now a reform in the process, after which the new Customs Act is largely in line with the current Customs Act. So what is happening today at Customs, what is being done is the result of the same type of legislation. That's what I think. Customs deserves a few comments in addition to this law, which includes a number of technical changes. Thank you again for the work carried out on the committee as a whole and on the advice of the committee. I agree with the Vice-President of the committee on the points raised in these committee deliberations. There should be close cooperation with these relevant stakeholders in the preparation of the law, and there was some regrettably a hurry in the air in this debate. I am pleased, however, that the committee was able to deal with this in depth and unanimously the report has taken note of the fact that in future attention will be paid to the effectiveness and results of this overall reform. But then it's you. Customs. Over the past year, we have heard news from Customs about how Customs, for example, stopped dynamite at the border, Customs seized a large amount of cocaine or how Customs acted more intensively at western border crossing points since last September. On the other hand: Customs has a clear fiscal role to play, and it is an anti-gray economy. Revenues recovered as a criminal benefit or the fight against tax losses are significant incomes for the State. Thus, Customs' role in these activities strengthens the rule of law and the principles of transparency of administration. Customs participates in PTR cooperation as one of the internal security authorities, and it also has powers for this work, as provided for in the Customs Crime Prevention Act and also in this report. It also plays a role as an authority for imports and exports in our country's ports, airports and land borders. There are many customs, and if we turn this around, what would happen if Customs would not exist or it would not work as it now works in Finland? Customs’ ability to act depends largely on the hands of customs officials and other officials. It is up to Parliament to take care of the funds budgeted to combat the shadow economy. I wish Customs the very best continuation and clarification in terms of leadership, as far as the public has recently been concerned, and the continuation of this work, which has already been carried on by law since Emperor Alexander I adopted the Statute for the Customs Administration of the Grand Duchy of Finland in 1812. Then we have had the Customs Government and now finally Customs. From this year 1812 is a long way from 2020, by the end of which it is planned to move towards electronic customs declarations in full, and this is also in line with the objectives of the Sipilä Government Programme on the exploitation of digitalisation and, among other things, the facilitation of the provision of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u114	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u115	Madam President! This is, therefore, a motor insurance law which, in the committee's deliberations, has been subject to a number of changes. There were a few flaws in the expert hearings. The first was this concerning wheelchairs and similar light-structured mobility equipment for disabled people. Thus, since the beginning of 2016, they have not been able to take out motor insurance, and the committee has therefore proposed, in a detailed explanatory statement, that "the aids necessary for the daily movement of many disabled persons be brought under the motor insurance scheme" and proposed that "the vehicles in question should be clearly exempted from the obligation to take out motor vehicle insurance and any damage caused by them be compensated by the Motor Insurance Centre". This was an important point that emerged during the hearings. In addition, there was an issue related to vehicle competitions. In the past, therefore, there has been this type of vehicle race driver's protection, which, according to the committee, should continue to be maintained in the future - for the reason that this protection has been considered appropriate. Without it, motor sports enthusiasts' insurance cover would be significantly reduced and competition costs would increase with higher insurance premiums for voluntary insurance. One of the things that was raised here was this statistics. The expert hearings highlighted the objective of the availability of data for each category of vehicle. The committee considered it important that "the Regulation should provide more detailed provisions on the content of the data to be included in the annual statistical report so that the report is sufficiently comprehensive and detailed to meet the needs of public authorities and stakeholders with regard to statistical information". With these few amendments, additions and additions, the committee supported this. We felt that this was a very good and worthy proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u116	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u117	Madam President! This is therefore a bill for the amendment of Article 33 of the Alcohol Act. After all, alcohol law prohibits advertising, indirect advertising and other promotional activities for spirits. This may be waived in places where alcoholic beverages are produced, sold and sold, and in information networks where sales prices are concerned. According to the Museum Act, museum activities aim to maintain and strengthen the public's understanding of their culture, history and environment and to promote access to information on cultural and natural heritage by storing and preserving material and visual cultural heritage for future generations, by carrying out related research, teaching and communication, as well as exhibition and publishing activities. How does this now relate to this alcohol law, so that the Altia Museum, or liquor museum, has been located in Rajamäki in connection with Altia’s factories since 1963, and so far this museum has only been allowed to be open in exceptional cases, since its activities have been interpreted as violating alcohol law in relation to this advertising item. The museum has collected not only extensive material on the activities of the Altia factory but also historical material on alcohol consumption and sales in Finland. The activities of this liquor museum in relation to the alcohol law are highly open to interpretation, and the display of the museum’s own products, for example, should not clearly label the museum’s activities as advertising. This is, among other things, about the fact that alcohol product packaging has been displayed and that it is considered that it is also of a commercial nature. In this respect, in view of the activities of the Altia factory, the museum has also presented a wide range of other activities at the plant. After all, the factory's activities have been very extensive and have included not only the production of alcohol but also the production of yeast, perfume and vinegar. The museum's collections also include historical material related to the sale, consumption and other activities of alcohol during the Prohibition and Winter Wars, and it has been very unusual that the entire museum's activities have been considered as marketing when it comes to such a wide-ranging presentation of factory activities. On this basis, I have proposed that Parliament should adopt a change to the law, which is enshrined in Article 33 of the Alcohol Act. It would be added that the restrictions on the advertising and marketing of alcohol laid down in this Article do not apply to museum activities related to the manufacture of alcohol and the history of its production, where such activities comply with the principles of museum activities. This would then apply to this individual case and would be a very minor change and could be implemented, for example, in the context of this reform of the Alcohol Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u118	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-14-ps-38.u119	Mr President! Representative Mäkelä, some 140,000 employees in Finland each year feel that they suffer from bullying at work. This is twice as much in relation to other European countries. Still, only about four hundred cases will end up in a federal hearing. The authorities are still less likely to take action. However, experts say that conflicts should be resolved in the workplace as early as possible. The handling of harassment and bullying in the courtroom is difficult for everyone, and there are usually no winners in these processes. My bill concerns the extension of the conciliation procedure at the workplace. The current law on health and safety at work, the so-called Health and Safety at Work Control Act, does not give the health and safety authority and inspector the authority to impose harassment on mediation if the employer or employees do not grant harassment and bullying at the workplace. In my bill, I suggest that the authorities have the authority to order a case of bullying for mediation. In accordance with Article 20 of the Non-Discrimination Act, the contract referred to in the Act could be confirmed by the Non-Discrimination and Equality Board and enforced as a final judgment. Mediation is a method of conflict management in which an impartial third party, a mediator, helps the parties to the dispute through a special conciliation procedure to find a mutually acceptable solution. The mediator does not solve the problem of the parties, but acts as a means of reconciliation. There are many types of harassment and bullying, and at worst they pose a danger to the health of workers. Of course, mediation is not suitable for all situations, especially the most serious ones, but in some cases it would be a suitable low-threshold approach to bullying at work. Mr President! Although this initiative will not solve the whole problem of bullying at work, it would be a good addition to the choice of means for health and safety at work. Harassment and bullying in the workplace are too common. We need all the means to solve the problems in time and Finns can focus on working in their workplaces.
