ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on the Future and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities shall deliver an opinion by 14 October 2016. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The first speaker on this subject is Minister Orpo. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u2	Madam President! This internal security report is the first of its kind. It was already decided in the negotiations on the Government Programme and was in fact a very wise decision. This report has been prepared exclusively for the Ministry of the Interior's official activities. The next step will be to prepare, under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, a comprehensive internal security strategy and a related operational programme. They will be completed in full in spring 17. However, this work will be organised in such a way that the main strategic guidelines will be finalised towards the end of this year. This strategy work will then be extended to include other ministries, including NGOs, civil society, so that we can have the widest possible debate on the conclusions to which this report, which describes the existing situation and threats, gives rise. Finland’s security environment is living in a very strong transition. Security is becoming more and more complex and the world cannot be forced to become simple. Uncertainty makes it more difficult to anticipate changes and manage risks. In addition to the external operating environment, change is seen as a daily phenomenon as the polarisation of our society increases. Interdependence and new security threats, such as cyber threats, hybrid impact and the consequences of climate change, require a new form of preparedness and preparedness for society as a whole. The internal security of our country is mainly affected by exclusion, income inequality, employment situation, alcohol and substance abuse policy, economic situation and equality. Families, local communities, social welfare and health measures and schools have a primary responsibility for the well-being that brings security. Of course, every person can have a significant impact on his or her own safety and security environment. Today, Finland’s internal security is increasingly linked to security situations in other EU Member States and neighbouring countries. In addition to national action, effective and coordinated solutions are needed at EU level to address these threats. One of the biggest changes affecting Finland indirectly or directly is the deterioration of relations between Russia and Europe. Similarly, the situation of asylum seekers due to complex backgrounds and causes will have a long-term impact on the security situation in our country. It can also be seen that in the future geopolitical instability will continue to increase, conflicts will spread and last much longer. The unstable situation in the Middle East and North Africa affects Europe, increasing the number of asylum seekers and illegal entry and security threats. Internal security built on a sustainable basis is the best guarantee of external security. It has become very clear to us in the Ministry of the Interior that the border between internal and external security today is very difficult to draw, it does not exist: what is happening in Africa or the Middle East will soon be transferred to the Mediterranean Sea, Greece, Italy, Europe — to the Nordic countries and Finland. Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior is the leading ministry of security, preparedness and immigration. The administrative actors of the Ministry of the Interior are part of the international security community and work in cooperation with states and international organisations. Internal security is the cornerstone of Finnish democracy and the welfare society as a whole. The state’s core functions ensure the functioning of society and the peace of society. Police officers, border guards, emergency services, emergency services personnel and immigration officials will ensure that the security tasks necessary for the functioning of society and social peace are carried out around the clock every day of the year. The tasks of Finnish safety authorities, the starting points and assumptions of the range of means have remained broadly unchanged. Due to the state of public finances, reduced resources for internal security challenge security authorities with increasing and complex tasks, citizens' expectations and rapid change in the operating environment. The rapidly increasing number of asylum seekers made this year very exceptional in the European Union and in the history of Finland. 1.3 million asylum seekers arrived in Europe last year, and in many countries asylum systems operate at extreme borders. Our own system was also strained by more than 30,000 applicants in six months. The growth rate was 800 and was one of the highest in Europe. It is very possible that in the future Finland will again be a destination country for asylum seekers, and that is what we need to be prepared for. As Minister for Internal Security, I have been able to rely on the skills and skills of officials and authorities. Not only the authorities, but also the third sector, as well as citizens and civil society, have played an important role in overcoming the crisis. At this stage, however, it is good to note that major efforts are still ahead. As a result of the asylum seeker's family, the Finnish Immigration Service was granted considerable additional resources for the processing, decision-making and reception of applications. The Finnish Immigration Service has promised to dismantle the application congestion by early autumn, and it will also result in reception activities being adapted to the number of applicants. At the moment, we have more than 1,700 persons who have been granted residence permits in the system who should quickly obtain a municipality and move to the municipality for integration measures. Success in this is of paramount importance to us. We have sought a two-month transition period from a positive decision to a municipality and forward from reception centres. It has already almost doubled, and considering that the annual accommodation of one asylum seeker at the reception centre costs an average of EUR 18000, it is quite clear that we need to make a lot of progress here. Here again, I challenge Finnish municipalities and society as a whole to find municipal places and places to invest. It is both socially and economically unsustainable to keep a person who has received a residence permit in reception services when he or she should move to the municipality for integration. The second big question is that of people who have received a negative asylum decision. According to estimates, there will be thousands of them in the coming months. This is a matter that has been largely prepared, especially under the leadership of the police, because the police are a responsible authority. We negotiate return agreements, we support voluntary return, but we are also prepared for the threat that people who have received a negative residence permit decision and who do not have the right to be and who are, so to speak, left undocumented in society. Mr President! There are high social expectations for the police. People can easily see that the police are the one whose actions alone create public order and security in Finland or how many crimes we commit. It is indisputable that the Finnish police are very high-performance and high-quality in international comparisons. The trust the police enjoy is top-notch. Nevertheless, public order and security as well as crime are far more complex than the mere sum of police activity. The Internal Security Report, which has now been completed, has addressed this contradiction firmly. What kind of security does police work provide? What is the point of concentrating police resources on so as to provide as much security as possible that we want from it? The police have a large number of statutory tasks. The main elements are the maintenance of public order and security, prevention, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. However, there is no clear definition of when public order and security have been adequately maintained. Furthermore, society has not taken a position on which crimes should primarily be prevented and investigated by the police. It is clear that the police will never prevent or resolve everything. So we need some kind of prioritisation. However, this requires the development of a system and legislation, and the report suggests that such an open, public procedure for targeting police activities should be introduced. It would increase the legal certainty of citizens and the predictability of public action. This can also create the conditions for maintaining the high level of trust enjoyed by the police in a challenging economic and security situation. It is important that we, as a society, be better able to define what we expect from the police. This internal security report gives us a good starting point. In the security environment and tasks, the government tries to respond to the major challenges faced by the police by halting the decline in the number of police officers. It has been outlined in connection with this report. The number of police officers has been on the decline for several spending limits periods, i.e. the Government term. The number of police officers in 2015 was 7,250 excluding police officers working in the protection police. In connection with the report, it is stated that the number of police officers is set at about 7,000. In view of the impact of retirement and other retirement on the whole, the aim is to compare the number of police officers' training levels to that of police officers. In order to ensure that the number of police graduates does not fall below 7,000 in the coming years, the starting point for basic police training should be at least 300 in 2016 and 400 per year until 2019. In order to achieve this goal, there is a need not only for a certain amount of additional resources but also for the development of activities. In the Government Programme negotiations, EUR 50 million was added to internal security and justice, of which EUR 28.5 million was allocated to the Ministry of the Interior’s administrative sector. The addition was made in a situation where almost everywhere else had to be cut. In addition, in the last spending limits debate, EUR 5 million was allocated to the police for next year and EUR 10 million for the coming years and EUR 2 million for the protection police. Next year's gonna be a reasonable year. Resource and development needs will be directed towards the end of the spending limits period, and we must look for solutions to that end. Madam President! Since the 1990s, the Border Guard has radically adapted its operations. The organisation has been reduced and functions have been reduced. The staff has decreased by 25%. Operations at internal borders have been driven down. In addition, the Border Guard has shut down one coast guard, a garrison unit, a sea rescue block centre and so on. These have been done in a different security situation, in a different perspective than where we are today. Since 2013, the Border Guard has had an adjustment programme of EUR 28 million. This in the current security situation is a major challenge to the Border Guard. In the context of the report, the Government now states that its aim is to increase the security of the eastern border in particular and to direct 160 additional border guards to the eastern border. This increase would restore the control of the eastern border to the level at which it was in a more favourable security situation before the change in the security environment. The Border Guard is prepared to direct the work of 100 border guards from border crossing points to guard the eastern border, and other additional occupations and women must also be resolved during further work. Border security has also been highlighted recently in the European debate and in the European Union's activities. The Border Guard will implement the national measures required by the European Border and Coast Guard System, the amendments to the Schengen Borders Code and the European Union Cross-border Information System. As a minister, I will do my best to maintain border security, including with regard to resource management. I will also actively influence the EU-level guidelines and decisions on border management. Madam Speaker! "Security and crisis-proof Finland in cooperation" is a draft rescue action vision I think that's a good goal. The draft vision is a good reflection of this time when no actor can achieve the objectives on his own, but it requires cooperation with other actors. The Government Programme states that the national management, planning and coordination of emergency services and preparedness will be strengthened and improved. I think it is important that the objectives set out in the Government Programme are taken forward. Emergency Response Centre activities are one of the most important activities that directly affect our trust in the authorities and society more generally. That is why we are calling for the protection of undisturbed emergency centre operations and for further development of cooperation processes in the field of emergency centre operations. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government outlines in a report on the availability of emergency alarm services. The number of personnel of the Emergency Response Centre will be established at around 600 person-years of work, and we believe that the objectives of the Government Programme and the services that citizens need will be achieved. Madam President! Our security environment has therefore changed significantly. Our security authorities have their former challenges and new ones on top of them, mainly from outside. We are in a situation where only by increasing money and resources will we be unable to respond to these. We need wide-ranging cooperation, international cooperation, European cooperation, and, of course, we must also provide for sufficient resources. By working together with the authorities, we will be able to act effectively, which is top-notch in the world and compared to the world. However, we must ensure that, in the strategy work that is now under way, we find and identify the key pain points, the key areas of development that we need in order to maintain comprehensive security in Finland and to achieve the goal that Finland, as outlined in the Government Programme, will continue to be one of the safest countries in the world. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that the Finnish security authorities are indeed the world's top level, cooperate excellently and ensure that, despite the threats today, Finland is a very safe country to live, to work and to live at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u3	The next round of group talks will be opened by the Parliament Group and representative Korhonen in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u4	Mr President! The internal security of Finland must be ensured in all circumstances. Five aspects of this approach: We need to continue our foreign and security policy with a line that maintains and increases stability, especially in the areas close to our country. We must put our economies and jobs in order and do all we can to combat exclusion in order to safeguard the social and territorial integrity of our society. Positive economic development will continue to ensure adequate security resources. We need to be able to identify and prepare for changes in the internal security environment and a whole new kind of threat. We must ensure that the internal security authorities operate in a diverse manner, promote intersectoral cooperation, maintain the development of security technology and ensure that our legislation meets their operational needs. Fifthly, each of us can also contribute to the safety of everyday life. Communityism, caring for fellow human beings and responsibility for one's own actions must be made a stronger asset. Mr President! The safety of Finland and Finns cannot be compromised, even though the economy of our country needs to be balanced. Citizens' confidence in Finnish authorities is still high and must be maintained. Everyone must be able to feel safe at home, in their surroundings, at study or at work and on the road, regardless of where they live. These are also the starting points for the report we are debating today. According to the report, the government will not reduce the number of police officers. The report promises to establish the strength of the field police at the level of 7,000 policemen. However, the number of police officers will be reduced due, among other things, to retirement and, for various reasons, to insufficient levels of training. The adequacy of the police must be carefully assessed in the committee's examination of the report. On the basis of the parliamentary examination of the report, it is also necessary to examine more closely whether there are reform needs that can ensure the capacity of the authorities to act effectively, to improve security and to prevent problems. The core tasks must be carried out, the division of labour assessed and the question whether, for example, the police, the Defence Forces, the Border Guard or Customs can cooperate more comprehensively and in a deeper way. Mr President! During the last and current parliamentary term, the Parliamentary Administrative Committee has unanimously stated on several occasions in its opinions that achieving the objectives of internal security has at least been a challenge and will continue to be a challenge. In this context, the internal security strategy and the operational programme to be drawn up in the autumn are essential and important. The situation picture, the basic line and the starting position of this report create a very demanding pressure for further work. Further work must be strongly based on Parliament's report on this report and its guidance. Strategy work must also involve close dialogue with Parliament. In view of the future, it is also important to establish established policies. For example, the Internal Security Report is justified in the future by the parliamentary term. The Centre also presents a parliamentary negotiating board to build a common vision of the security of our society and future solutions that go beyond the parties' electoral periods. Mr President! Safety is not just a matter for decision-makers and authorities. The extensive voluntary work of Finns complements and supports the activities of the authorities in an important way. Thus, for example, securing the operating conditions of contract fire brigades is a top priority in the reform of the rescue services to be launched. Everyone can also do a lot for a safe everyday life. Together we must fight racism, hate speech and violence. The decision-makers are expected to give an example of the power to break down confrontations. Now if you ever have to build bridges. This cooperation and the strength of the example are also being tested in this referral debate. I personally believe and hope that today we can have a very constructive and more forward-looking debate on serious issues than we can have on the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u5	Parliamentary group and representative Mattila of the Finns Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u6	Madam President! The Internal Security Report was already launched by the previous Parliament's statement on the preparation of the Internal Security Report on the reform of the police administrative structure. Since then, significant changes have taken place in the operating environment of the safety authorities, and it is a good thing that the current government has rushed this report. This report deserves praise, although it is more focused on the analysis of the resources of the safety authorities. More cross-administrativeism is needed in further work. I hope that these issues will be taken into account when drawing up the internal security strategy, as the extensive strategy work responds to Parliament's statement. Mr President! Even in its shortness, the Internal Security Report gives an unmistakable picture of the construction site of the Finnish Safety Authority. The state's financial situation makes the resources scarce, but fortunately it is still sufficient. If we want to maintain Finland as one of the safest countries in the world, the direction and line must be kept clear. Resources must be secured, although in times of scarcity it is a challenge. This does not just mean investing in traditional security authorities, but there must be a broad understanding of all the factors that make up human safety in everyday life, in families, municipalities, regional equality, equality between citizens, as has traditionally been the case with the Nordic welfare model. The cooperation of Finnish safety authorities has always been excellent and effective. The rapid construction of the Tornio Organization Centre last autumn and its operation under heavy pressure is a good example of cooperation. One of the main elements of the internal security strategy must be the development of cooperation between the authorities. Indeed, the current and future security threats are intersectoral, if that is what you can say, concerning many different organisations. The development of a broader strategy for internal security must take into account the citizens' perspective on how safety in everyday life is perceived across Finland, from the suburbs to the sparsely populated area, and how the safety of people of different ages is guaranteed from a safe school path to a dignified old age. We already have indicators for safety and ways of measuring the sense of security. Unfortunately, even our homes may not be safe: accidents occur every day and domestic violence has not been eliminated. Finland has ratified the Istanbul Convention against Domestic Violence. We also need resources to bring women's peace to the country. Many of the challenges facing our country's internal security come from beyond our borders. The growing terrorist threat in Europe and the large-scale asylum process that started last summer are challenging our security. Our authorities need to find solutions, even if they do not actually have access to the source of the problems. The leaking external borders of the European Union have had an exceptional effect within the borders of Finland. In practice, asylum seekers who have come through the eastern border are also an unprecedented phenomenon. In Finland, the authorities are responsible for internal security and this must continue to be the case. Private security services and supplementary police are not a solution to long-term problems. We are going in the wrong direction if citizens are considering buying private security services because they suspect that the police will be coming too late to help them. But in the midst of all this, it is important to note that Finns live in an internationally comparable country. Trust in security authorities is high, our authorities are highly skilled, and the emergency number, that golden 112, still responds. Maintaining these things is one of the core tasks of society. But as a whole, thank you to the Minister for the presentation of the report and for the lines it contains.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u7	Madam President! We are discussing the first internal security report in parliamentary history. In this context, it is good to consider what security actually means, what factors affect it and what the purpose of this report is. What does it, as a parliament, guide us to, even obliges us to do? Security means that everyone can live without constant concern for the future, their loved ones and their security. It is also about trust in society and a sense of justice. The report gives us a common picture of our country's security situation. Good work has been done under the leadership of Home Secretary Orpo. A common picture of the situation and an assessment of the need for change in the operating environment are essential for us to discuss, make the necessary policies and decisions — both choices and priorities. In today's world, security is affected by large-scale phenomena and cannot be compartmentalised or resolved by measures taken by individual administrative sectors. From the point of view of the security of our country, there is no clear border between external and internal security, nor can it be drawn. As Finland is increasingly a part of the international community, events in the world also have an indirect impact within our country. Security is built on our mutual trust in each other, with different actors and authorities. It is also essential for the competitiveness of our country that we consider Finland to be a safe country. Madam President! The resources of our security authorities are at the mercy of the pain. Each safety authority has its own central role and must be able to operate in a secure manner. The report highlights a realistic picture of the pressures on the internal security sector. The report states that the number of police officers will be established at around 7,000 police levels during this parliamentary term. The Coalition Party considers this level to be an absolute minimum below which it cannot go. The adequacy of the number of police officers should also be assessed regularly during further processing. The Government's approach to increasing the number of police officers in education is essential. The resources of the Emergency Response Centre will be established at 600 person-years. The short response time of the Emergency Response Centre and the ability to respond quickly to the caller’s case is essential in providing assistance. The on-going information system reform will enable the introduction of a networked operating model. The Border Guard has an important role to play in ensuring the integrity of all our territorial borders. In addition to monitoring our land borders, the Coast Guard is doing key work to secure our maritime borders, ensuring both rescue tasks and operating conditions for shipping that is essential to the logistics of business. The situation of the Border Guard is challenging in terms of resources and needs to be taken into account. The organisation of emergency services and emergency care will be carried out by five provinces maintaining a university hospital by cooperation areas. It is now important to ensure that the new solution secures the operating conditions of the rescue services and adequate access to services. It is important to remember the role and function of contract fire brigades as a whole. Over the past year, the Finnish Immigration Service has been subject to major changes and has been able to react quickly to a changed situation. The well-functioning PTR cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard is a good example of the effectiveness of cooperation between the authorities. PTR cooperation also works and enhances the resolution of crimes. It is good to clarify and clarify the responsibilities of the PTR authorities in the strategic work on internal security. In the follow-up debate on the report, it should be remembered that the scarce resources are well-targeted to maintain the security of our country. However, we will have to make choices about how resources will be used more effectively in the future. With timely, well-thought-out choices, we need to secure a functioning service organisation, but we need to be prepared to discuss and prioritise: can there be a greater emphasis on the resolution of certain crimes in resource management than others. Internal security is a much wider entity than public authorities. Smooth cooperation between authorities provides the basis for preventing and solving problems as early as possible. The importance of preventive work must therefore be borne in mind alongside the safety authorities. The sooner we are able to identify factors that lead to things that endanger the security of society differently, the better. The costs will also be reduced, and at the same time we need to consider how we can curb or even reduce the increase in police work. Security must be widely understood in the strategic work on internal security. Public authorities as well as civil society and business actors should be invited to participate in the work. We must be able to make use of each one's expertise and resources for the common benefit of society. A secure Finland is built not as the work of individual actors, but through cooperation and partnerships with active and responsible citizens. That way, Finland will continue to be a country where it is safe to work, try, study and live.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u8	Mr President! It is good that we have the first internal security report on the table. It describes the rapidly changing security environment with merit. As our security challenges become increasingly complex, it is clear that the border between internal and external security is becoming increasingly difficult to understand. At a time when the resources of the security authorities are falling under pressure from the economic situation, their remit is becoming more difficult to manage, including through cyber and hybrid threats. The equation in which resources are reduced and tasks are increased is not sustainable. The new policies called for in the report, which rely, among other things, on the development of cooperation between public authorities and the better use of information technology, are an important development and the need to invest in them can be well signed. But the question is seriously asked: Are they to replace the work of policemen and women on the scale and with the timetable now being presented? Mr President! Safety is not just the work of the safety authorities; it is influenced by everything that is happening in our society. People's nausea is increasing as unemployment, exclusion and participation increases. Surgery for welfare services and benefits increases the pressure. Many of our greatest security challenges stem from the lack of safety, exclusion and non-participation in everyday life. Just recently, a stoppage report came in that the police reported that they prevented dozens of acts of violence that were considered dangerous. Not only does this tell us something startling about the time and society we live in, but the news also tells important things about Finnish authorities. We have very good police officers who are genuinely capable of preventing these atrocities. Secondly, the news is an important indication that Finnish security authorities are openly telling about their activities. The importance of this latter issue for citizens' sense of security and trust in the police authority should not be underestimated. An adequate number of police officers is an essential part of this trust base. Unfortunately, the government's actions conflict with the report and contribute to increasing the sense of insecurity. During the last parliamentary term, 7,500 policemen were too low for the Finns of Peru, even worthy of the interim question — now you are content with 7,000 reports. The Government's spending limits even go below 6500. This isn't enough for the SDP. We call for an absolute minimum of 7200 police officers. It is an absolute minimum if we take account not only of the country's economic situation but also of its security situation. In addition, in order to respond to the deteriorating security situation, it is also necessary, as proposed by the Working Party on Civil Service Officers, to examine the introduction of a supplementary police system. In the view of the SDP, it is of the utmost importance that (1) the basic activities of the security authorities are maintained and that adequate resources are guaranteed, that there is an absolute minimum police level of 7200, (2) that, when developing the activities of the authorities, the powers are kept clear, (3) that the authorities are able to anticipate and prevent security threats are maintained, and (4) that cooperation between the authorities is further developed and that Customs is involved in this work. Although there is not yet a prospect of Oy Polipoli Ab or Oy Finland’s eastern border Ab, the growth of the private security sector affects the work of safety authorities, for example. In this context, it is essential that responsibilities are kept clear and that responsibilities cannot be outsourced. Mr President! The 1340 km border with Russia is a reality that must always be taken into account in the debate on security policy. The changed world political situation requires increased surveillance at the eastern border. The likelihood of exceptional situations has increased and can only be met by additional staff. Technology doesn't catch people coming across the border. Cooperation between authorities is one of the main strengths of the Finnish security field. Against this background, it is regrettable that: Customs has been excluded from this report in its entirety. Mr President! When we talk about internal security, we talk about the functioning of the basic systems of society. Government action, such as cuts to basic services, contributes to a loss of safety. The cuts that have been made to the resources of the safety authorities will lead us to an intolerable situation. It must be possible to ensure the safety of citizens in all situations. That is one of the main tasks of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u9	Madam President! The Green Parliamentary Group shares the goal of the Government Programme to ensure that Finland is the safest country in the world to live in, try and work on. The Internal Security Report and its subsequent strategy will hopefully help to promote these objectives. There have been changes in our security environment, as there have also been changes in the sense of security experienced by citizens. These are the changes we must respond to. The prevention of terrorism and all forms of extremism, for example, requires decisive action even now. We don't live in a cramped state, and the instability of the world is reflected in us as well. An example of environmental change is the increasing number of hybrid and cyber threats. In order to respond to these, we need both a review of the legal instruments and a allocation of resources to deal with these threats and the crimes that have taken place. At the same time, the harsh revelations of recent years from other countries remind us of the need to protect people's fundamental rights. Another example of this change is the situation in border control. A proposal to strengthen border control is necessary. This relates not only to the fight against crime and to unforeseen situations, but also to, for example, the proper and unwarranted introduction of asylum procedures for people arriving at our borders. People's trust in each other and the authorities is the foundation on which security and all other well-being in our society are built. Creating and maintaining it is hard, but losing it is easy. Everyone must be able to feel safe in Finland and receive help in their own home, street, school and workplace. This also applies, for example, to a woman dressed according to her own wishes, to a Somali seeking refuge in Finland and to a man subjected to violence by his partner. The Internal Security Report is comprehensive in its own field, but security does not look at the boundaries of ministries. Limiting the report to the Ministry of the Interior's field of activity ignores e.g. inequality, poverty and the prevention of exclusion. They are absolutely essential to our internal security. Whether it's about preventing a child's class society, organising a place of study for every young person or smart job management, they're all building a safe Finland. In Finland, for example, domestic violence cannot be adequately addressed at present. People have even been turned from the door of shelters. Policy to increase social problems undermines public security. A preventive policy, in turn, will bring stability and security. It's not just about resources. For example, it would be important to better catch those who fall out of choice because of various problems at the time of the military’s call. As with other work to prevent exclusion, we should be careful not to stigmatise people or treat young people facing problems as a single lump with a single solution to their problems. Madam President! The report is hard to read for police work. The Greens share concerns about the number of police officers on the streets and in the field throughout Finland. The number of police officers should not be reduced any more. We need sufficient resources to ensure that, on the contrary, the number of police officers in the field can be increased in the future. There is, of course, a general right to develop and streamline governance. We also bear responsibility for the fact that, in the past, we too have been in the process of approving cuts to the police administration. It was then necessary to choose between social security, teachers, nurses or police administration. In our view, these first three were the most important in terms of security. Cooperation between administrations and also across borders is one way of achieving better results with limited resources. We therefore support, for example, the further strengthening of cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard mentioned in the report. The police are reflecting the people. The police are also widely trusted in Finland, and this trust is worth maintaining. It will only be possible if the police's ability to solve crimes remains at least at the current level. We also believe that this will require, for example, a gradual increase in the number of police officers with an immigrant background to match the population base. This would mean, for example, ensuring that people with an immigrant background have real opportunities to apply for police training and that they are also encouraged to do so, as is already the case in Helsinki. Another important issue is the increase in the preventive work carried out by the police and local police. Many crimes are not committed if the police are active, for example, with organizations, religions and different groups. Good steps have already been taken. We need a bigger gear. Finally, Mr President, the report pays a great deal of attention to immigration and asylum seekers. We must be strict both in terms of the violence committed by immigrants and internal discrimination against immigrant communities, and in terms of violence and discrimination against immigrants. At the same time, we need good and individual integration. The government has also proposed good measures for integration. On the other hand, for example, the excessive difficulty of family reunification is not only in itself cold and hard but also in flagrant conflict with the whole of integration. Working family relationships and local communities often calm both Finns and other people, especially young men. Mr President! The success of the report and the subsequent strategy will be determined by implementation. We hope that the comments we have raised will help us to move from words to deeds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u10	Madam President! Finland is a safe country according to many standards, and it is good that this internal security report was completed in this situation, as the situation in Finland's internal security situation changed in the past year in two different ways: First, Sipilä's Government Programme included drastic austerity measures for the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector, which will undermine the ability of police officers and the Border Guard, for example. On the other hand, the increased number of asylum seekers created uncertainty among citizens over the past year, increased the workload of the authorities and raised concerns about the state of internal security in Finland. Ladies and gentlemen! Already fewer police officers graduate from the Police College of Applied Sciences than they retire each year. According to current estimates, the government programme's savings target is that by 2020 the number of police officers will be reduced by 800. The realisation of the spending limits also means that no police are hired to replace retired or on leave. This means that no police officer graduating from the Police College of Applied Sciences during the spending limits period will receive a job corresponding to their training. As far as crime prevention is concerned, the government's savings lead to an overload of personnel, a fall in the result of crime prevention and an increase in people's insecurity. Reducing the number of police officers also means concentrating activity on larger localities, which means a collapse in the security of sparsely populated areas in particular. It is not just a police sign for an empty facility that will guarantee security, and electronic services will not help if there is a great need for help. The presence of the police must also be ensured at long distances in Finland. All people, regardless of their place of residence, must be able to obtain police assistance easily and quickly. The situation has also developed in relation to the Border Guard. Hundreds of border guards have already been reduced in this area of security. Now, however, the promise of strengthening the control of the eastern border by 160 border guards is made that 100 will be transferred from elsewhere and the remaining 60 will be real reinforcements. Of course, their wages are still missing in the budget at the moment, but it is believed that they will be there. Madam President! We in the Left Alliance want to defend people's everyday lives and security. We think it is important that there is sufficient public authority resources in Finland to safeguard people's everyday lives. The issue that has been neglected in relation to internal security is road safety. In assessing this, it appears that the abolition of mobile police and the withdrawal of resources from traffic were a miscalculation. Last year, for example, traffic accidents leading to death went on to a sharp increase. There were as many as 40 more of them as in 2014. However, it is worth noting how illegal the use of foreign trucks in domestic traffic in Finland and the legal amount of international transport on our roads is increasing. The organisations in the transport sector and the police have informed us that monitoring of heavy traffic on our roads has decreased since the abolition of the mobile police. It is known that foreign trucks travel on Finnish roads, whose condition and loading do not meet the requirements of Finnish law. Drivers drive in a strange country, under strange conditions, often during wintertime with bad tires. In addition, cabotage is accompanied by a large number of informal economies. A particular risk to road safety in heavy traffic is the violation of driving and rest time regulations. Now the driving and rest time control is completely out of control. There are not enough authorities in the transport sector to have the necessary skills to check the tachographs and rest periods. Putting all this under control and road safety in order is in favour of re-establishing the road police system. I would remind you at this point that, last season, only Minister Kyllönen, in the ministerial working group on internal security, was in favour of maintaining a mobile police force. Finally, Madam President, we in the Left Alliance have drawn attention to the proper conduct of Minister Orpo's duties. He has been trying to calm down the debate in excess. Minister Orpo has clearly stated that in Finland, public order does not belong to street patrols but to the authorities. We agree on this. Tornio's organization centre was also brought into operation quickly, which is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u11	Swedish Parliamentary Group, representative Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u12	Madam President! We can all recognise that there are new tensions in today's world, and also in Finland, which threaten internal security — tensions that were less pronounced 10 to 15 years ago. In this case we are talking about cybersecurity and the hybrid war, we are talking in the midst of the European metropolises about well-organised and blind terrorism, we are talking about racism and hate speech that violates human dignity, and also about an extreme right that ignores democratic rules of play, which wants to take the law into its own hands. Internal security is also threatened by trafficking in human beings and violence against women, which is still a major problem in our country and employs our authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u13	Mr President! Finland is still a safe country. Until now, the capacity of our best-trained and best-trained authorities in the world has been preserved. Structural reforms have reduced the administrative burden and transferred resources to the field work of police and border guards. Now there is a change in sight. The Internal Security Report is hard to read — an honest description must be given to the Ministry of the Interior. The loss of the capacity of the police, Border Guard, Rescue and Emergency Response Centres as a result of a reduction in resources is listed on the page. The government reports that the number of disruptions and crimes is increasing, the preparedness times for police and emergency services are increasing, some of the tasks are completely unaccounted for, more and more crimes are not solved, the maintenance of the security of sparsely populated areas is becoming more difficult, the risk of exercising their own right is increasing and the public's sense of security and even social peace is significantly reduced — all of this from that report. The report warns against the number of police officers falling to 7,000. But the truth is even worse. Parliament has just dealt with the government's approach to the budgetary plan, according to which the police budget will fall in the spending limits period so that in 2019 the number of police officers would fall to about 6,700, which would mean less than 500 police officers at present. In the spending limits decision, therefore, the government has set out an even larger cut in the funding of the police than is currently the policy line in the report. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group requires the Government to provide Parliament with a report on conflicting proposals for police funding and the necessary increases in appropriations. In the longer term, we must not be content with this level of 7,000 police officers. The target should be set at least at the current level. Savings targeted at police activities are unsustainable, while at the same time the operating environment is becoming increasingly challenging. Illegal entry and the tenfold increase in the number of asylum seekers have meant an additional effort of hundreds of millions of euros in reception activities, processing residence permit applications and later integration. This has been necessary and inevitable, but at the same time, should we not also ensure the safety of the entire population? A parliamentary group composed of representatives of all parliamentary parties unanimously proposed, just over a year before the parliamentary elections, that the level of internal security should be maintained during the current parliamentary term with an increase of EUR 95 million. There's only about half of this need in the frame. In its recent spending limits decision, the government did not actually increase the budget of the police, but only reduced the savings decisions contained in the spending limits of the Government Programme. In addition to terrorism, the development of Russia and cyber threats, we must not forget the greatest threat to internal security in everyday life: exclusion caused by unemployment, substance abuse and mental health problems and loneliness. The challenges of internal security must also be borne in mind in the current reform of the alcohol law. Increasing the availability of alcohol increases consumption, police work load, alcohol harm, insecurity and the cost of society. Society’s resources can be saved and human suffering reduced, in turn, by supporting the well-being and well-being of families and local communities and by combining life-bearing values with those of citizens. Mr President! What do citizens expect from security authorities? The fact that the person who calls the emergency centre will be answered within a reasonable period of time, that the police, ambulance or fire truck will arrive quickly or that the police will at all investigate the crime that has been committed. The report proposes that the political priority be given to the tasks of the police, that Parliament decide which tasks the police can not carry out in the absence of resources. Another option is that the first-line authority, such as the Emergency Response Centre operator, will have to prioritise who will be given assistance. Both options should be avoided. Maintaining the capacity of the police, emergency centres and the Border Guard is not an annual increase of billions or hundreds of millions of euros. A few EUR 10 million will help ensure internal security so that civil servants do not have to write security policy horror scenarios. Taking care of security is a central task of the state, and it will not be compromised according to the economic cycle.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u14	Then Minister Orpo will have three minutes, and then Minister Soini will speak briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u15	Madam President! First of all, thank you for your very constructive contributions to all the parliamentary groups. A few comments from the outset. This number of police officers was on the table in almost all the speeches, understandably. That is also a concern of our government parties, and it is therefore in the few political orientations already taken at this stage that have been included in the report. The report is a harsh report by the safety authorities on where it is going, that is, the recognition of the truth is the beginning of wisdom, that is to say, a truly honest, open look at what this security situation is and what threats it poses, and we are going to answer it now. What was wanted to be done at this stage can be found in the Government's policy. Of this amount, we have also estimated — when it went to about 7,000 of the present 7850 — that it would be real achievable, because we have already significantly increased the starting points for the Police College for this year, and we must continue to do so. That 7,000 in this midst of hard retirement is a hard goal, and that has already been done with this increase in education. If leeway can then be found in the years to come, then those levels of education can be further increased, but this was an important line from the point of view of the Ministry of Internal Security that this 7,000 was obtained at this stage, when it is true that it is different than when calculated purely theoretically on the basis of the framework. The framework was put in place before the report was completed, and now the discussion of this report and the future strategy work will lay the foundations for the decisions that will be taken in future budgets and in future frameworks. The budget situation this year is, you might say, quite good, next year reasonable, and those major challenges will be faced in the next few years and will have time to make adjustments, but we also need to make further internal development — in a way, we are living in a time when development will have to continue all the time. I could take a few more topical things. First of all, the Krp did indeed report these serious threats of violence. This is indeed a new way of being openly told, but to reassure the situation, I would say that, although they are horrendous, in a way no change had taken place, but the police have blocked them in a similar way, with good, professional, preventative work, but now that such an instrument has been formed in the Krp that collects this information, it is in one place and that is why it was easier to put it together. But now there is no thorn, even though every such planned act of violence is, of course, a frightening thing. Another topical issue has been the departure of 2,500 asylum seekers from reception centres. My assessment of the police, immigration and so on is that most of them have left the country. They have either been disappointed that the country has not met the expectations that may have been shared with them by the human smuggler, or they have anticipated that their criteria for obtaining asylum will not be met. So I am not so worried about them — the bigger question is the future negative asylum decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u16	Secretary Soini, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u17	Madam President! There were good group speeches which also understood the impact of this international perspective on the security of our country, because these developments are also very much dependent on foreign and security policy in our countries and elsewhere. This requires inter-ministerial cooperation and has worked well with the Ministry of the Interior on immigration issues. These risks of border security are real and will require cooperation in the future. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior also have good cooperation with various police organisations in the delegations and at home in the fight against drug crime and in the fight against organised crime. We also need resources to manage internal security and they will be insufficient if we are not able to influence and address the root causes of the migration and refugee crisis. If we do not get to these sources of origin, then we will only deal with the consequences, and that is not enough. Finally, I would like to point out that intelligence is playing an increasingly important role and should be given due attention. It is not only an important issue for internal security but also the basis for foreign and security policy-making. There must be factual information, and it also requires factual intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u18	It is now possible to have a debate on this issue. I'll ask you to sign up for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u19	Mr President! Excellent group speeches and speeches up until now — that much criticism must be given in opposition parties' speeches, including those made by the government. As has also been said here in the ministers' speeches, the challenges of maintaining internal security are growing in many ways for a variety of reasons. This includes, of course, the reforms that need to be asked of the Minister. A year back in its own policies, the Parliamentary Task Force on Internal Security and Justice stated that, among other things, it was necessary to launch studies on the structural development of the internal security package and on the integration of PTR cooperation into the management of a single administrative sector. Now these are not very much discussed in this report, and I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior: How strongly have these ideas been considered in the Ministry? What may be happening to these presentations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u20	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for these policies, which are specifically aimed at establishing the number, level, level of police and the security of emergency services. This should be held on. It is also a real shame that this reform of the Police College of Applied Sciences in this way, perhaps slightly unexpectedly, also fell into this lap. In addition to this, I would like to add a very serious concern to Northern Ostrobothnia, that nuclear power plant site in Pyhäjoki, which has a very serious amount of heavy work, continuous, long-term, long-term intensive work, specifically directed at the police. Police cars have been stoned, police cars have been set on fire, and environmental damage has also been done on the site. There's been a breach of business machinery, oil hoses cut off and oil spills. In public, there is evidence that this might be a foreign-derived activity. Do you have this information?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u21	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for this report and also the parliamentary groups for their good, forward-looking feedback, and this should be the case. These new elements, which are linked to this internal security, have been discussed here, new challenges for our external environment. There has been talk of issues as serious as internal aspects of external security, but I would turn around myself, talk about external elements of internal security. Then there are the same elements: terrorism, various hybrid threats, cyber threats and so on. They're, unfortunately, commonplace for us. This requires a number of measures, including intelligence legislation and adequate resources. But I would like to ask the ministers, although this is not your decision: would it not be justified for the Minister of the Interior to be a member of SG-UTVA, because it is no longer possible to distinguish between external and internal security?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u22	Madam President! Good group speeches have been used here, as has been said above. Internal security is widely seen in Parliament as a whole and as a part of overall security — and so it is good. In its own group speech, the SDP wanted to undermine this level of police force, which is currently in force, which was also mentioned in that speech by the Christian Democrats. This is the wrong direction, and we need to put a stop to this development, taking into account the development of the security situation in our immediate and domestic environment. I want to ask the Minister just to be clear: Here in the group speeches, 7,000 field police officers were mentioned in the Centre Party’s group statement and 7,000 in the Coalition Party’s group statement, and I think there were 7,000 police officers on the True Finns’ side as well. In both cases, some of the police are officers. Is this by the number of field police officers working as a whole in the police force, or is it just a step that is the most important part of this police mission?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u23	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior, Orpo: at the moment, the police are under quite a lot of pressure — many times they have made it public that they are operating at the borders of their capacity in some places. Does the Ministry of the Interior have tools to promote the work of these internal security professionals, for surely a police officer who is not very stressed is in the interest of all of us? The second question relates to local police and preventative activities that are carried out in Finland to some extent. However, I understand that the level of activity varies very much from region to region. I would like to ask: could it be possible to encourage the police at national level to invest more in local police activities in such a way as to involve the police more actively in cooperation with different communities, for example, in smaller localities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u24	Mr President! When you look at the budgetary plan, I wondered that when you compare the results with what it gives, you know that none of the police that have been completed will be hired during this spending limits period or they will not get a new job. I wondered how it would affect the attractiveness of our police training, these measures. So I ask Minister Orpo: what are the measures, what can improve the attractiveness of these things and the willingness to go to education in such an area, where at the moment there is uncertainty about your own job, when, in any case, at some point, you are obliged to take employees there on the police side?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u25	Värderade fru talman! Svenska riksdagsgruppen är inte beredd att acceptera att sjöbevakningsstationerna i Porkala, Kasko och Kalajoki och Kemi stängs. Särskilt Porkala är en strategistikt viktig utpost i Finska viken, och vi vet alla att activiteten på Östersjön har ökat under de Senaste åren. Eftersom det förekommit mottridiga uppgifter i offentligheten om vad som ska ska, vill jag fråga minister Orpo hur situationen egentligen är.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u26	Madam President! Finland’s strength has traditionally been in good cooperation between internal security actors, and the example of this is the PTR cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard. However, there is currently a duplication of work, particularly in the field of drug crime, under various administrations, which in practice makes this cooperation more difficult. Now that Customs is moving to the Tax Administration, it would be the right time to transfer the other functions of Customs to the Ministry of the Interior. When this is also the direction suggested in the report, I ask: what is the timetable for this change? Then I would like to say to Mrs Sem that if the administration of the mobile police had been maintained, we would have fewer resources for the actual traffic control, because that administrative restructuring combined only those administrations, not the actual traffic control that remains. This is about money, not a reduction in government...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u27	Madam President! It says here that everyone is needed and that all sectors of government and other actors are involved. But why has civil society not been involved? In other words, I believe that civil society plays a very important role in maintaining and strengthening people's sense of security. Another point of view is that when we are well aware here that our child protection measures, our strong early childhood education, our youth work, our substance abuse policy and others are the ones that build up the feeling of Finnish security, that is, that social cohesion remains, there have been serious cuts to these. How do you think that this equation works when, on the one hand, resources are taken out of proper prevention and, on the other hand, it is said that people's sense of security will still be maintained if we have 7,000 police officers?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u28	Madam President! This report on internal security has already proved its worth, because a constructive debate and a common picture of the situation have in a way filled the Chamber. There was a lot of cooperation and overall security, prevention and timely intervention, including, of course, resources. But, in fact, I would ask the Minister: when the Minister also pointed out in his speech that we must be able to make priorities, choices, priorities and that in this report there would be an open public procedure of this kind in how we would be able to do these priorities, could the Home Secretary Orpo tell us a little more about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u29	Mr President! Two sightings of the conversation. First of all, the fact that the public and Parliament have strong confidence in the police and the authorities as security producers, and this seems very unanimous here: not to want private security, not to want street patrols, but to have a strong authority on these issues. However, the second issue raised by Minister Soini was the importance of intelligence also on immigration issues and on large-scale security, and I agree with that. But it would also be important to align citizens' information security, privacy in this context, because there are examples and experiences in history that these intelligence data are sometimes misused. And the second thing: We must have a good analytical capacity, because in the world, intelligence is also being fed in politically, which is not reliable. You cannot believe everything, but it is important that we are able to analyse this information ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u30	Madam President! Security policy is proactive and forward-looking. Today's number of police officers is the result of the actions of previous governments. For a year now, the Sipilä government has been in action and has not yet been able to influence the number of police officers currently present. The SDP’s group speech stated that during the last period, the Finns asked an intermediate question, and then there were 7500 policemen who were too few. It must be honest to admit that the economic situation at the time was quite different from what it is at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u31	Madam President! In a well-being society, the response to nausea is not limited to the resources of public authorities. That is why the most important thing about maintaining the security of citizens is a wise economic and social policy in which the government has a lot to improve. But I have to bring up this matter of police numbers here. It is true, then, that during the last season, the Finns believed that the government should be overthrown because 7500 police officers cannot be secured. Now the decisions the government has taken on police funding lead to an impossible situation: in 2018, there is a risk that the police will be dismissed if no new decisions are made. With these resources, the number of policemen leads to fewer than 6,500 policemen. This means that petty crimes are no longer investigated, that police entry in rural areas is taking place, that the safety of citizens is being undermined. Is this really acceptable to the Finns? If we were to go through that logic of the last period, then that would mean that the current government should say,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u33	Mr President! Once again, we are in a special situation here. During the last term, the Social Democrats were in a government that was unable to halt the trend of police decline. In 2011, there were 7,653 policemen, and in 2014, there were 7,389 police officers. Where did these cops go if you're so determined to keep them? Once again, the Finns of Peru are involved in stopping this bad direction, which you yourself have been doing, which translation you are still opposed to. Now we are in the government, and as you may be learning yourself, intermediate issues do not change the direction of Finland, but act in the government — not in your government — and this government will do so. When this direction can be stopped and the Finnish economy, which you were involved in destroying, can also be reversed, these resources will also be improved. Our concern about the number of police officers has not been reduced to anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u34	Mr President! I have to wonder if my ears heard correctly in the speech that I just made. The Group Chairman of the Finns Party, who has here approved the spending limits for central government finances, seriously says that the resources are now being secured or the direction is changing. This is a downward trend, and the Social Democrats will not accept that there are not enough police officers in this security situation. We assume that there should be enough of them, 7200, but with your economic framework it can be dramatically calculated over the coming years, up to 6,500. This is what the Finns accept here, and once again, unfortunately, the words of the Finns themselves turn from white to black and deeds in exactly the same way. Before the election, you spoke entirely different. I would like you to take seriously that concern of the citizens in this security situation and draw attention to the fact that your resources will reduce the number of police officers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u35	Mr President! As the Minister has already said in his opening speech, 7,000 is the limit to what is to stop this downward trend that you yourself were making. Even here, you do not make black and white when you claim that you are now able to stop from the opposition. But all the same, we all share the same concern that the reduction in the number of police officers should be stopped, and this government is committed to that. There's no point in continuing to argue about it. This will be done, just like all the rest of our main ones — the Finnish turn towards a better one compared to your reign. As I have already mentioned, during your term of office, the number of policemen was constantly, consistently, and now you claim that we are guilty, even though we are turning this course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u36	Mr President! Let's turn a little bit forward. It is true, however, that internal security is a matter of common concern to a large extent, and even the degressive framework that has been set out in this report is a real challenge, and no one will deny it. That is why this future internal security strategy, the operational programme, has a really high waiting value and a high pressure, and that is what this report is now leading to. We can't be on this road to oblivion. We need reforms and we need new working methods. And that is why, Minister Orpo, do you see any obstacle to the parliamentary approach expressed in the Group's group statement in the Centre Party and to the fact that it would be repeated every parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u37	Madam President! When it comes to internal security, it would also be important to remember the reduction of exclusion, poverty and inequality and their importance for domestic security. Unfortunately, however, this aspect is precisely missing from this report. For example, the question arises as to why there is no consideration for domestic violence and our inadequate places of refuge in this government, and it would be interesting to know what the government intends to do about it. For example, it has been found that the exclusion of young people is a serious problem and is the cause of many tragedies. Yesterday evening, for example, a documentary on television showed that school bullying is behind all Finnish school killings, and yet we have a serious shortage of school psychologists, for example. This aspect is not reflected in this report. Another source of concern is that the government makes the time
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u38	Mr President! As we have heard, this situation of internal security is much of an articulation with scarcity, but solutions need to be found both in new technologies and in new ways of working. In addition to investigating crimes, for example, a workable process is needed from pre-trial examination to prosecution and courts. It is important that the resources of the authorities are used in an appropriate manner and that, where possible, the work phases are reduced, for example, through the extension of the penal procedure, while ensuring that legal protection is not jeopardised. In this connection, I would also like to thank Minister Orpo for your hard work on guiding asylum seekers, those who remain in the country and those who leave the country through a clear process and path and for making it smooth. In this context, I would have asked: What is the current state of the municipal negotiations? Have the municipalities accepted this challenge?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u39	Mr President! When we talk about internal security, we cannot overemphasize the importance of social cohesion, the way people experience their own everyday life. As we know and as is actually referred to in this report, these various weakenings of services and social benefits, for example, undermine the sense of security for people in their daily lives. When this is combined with the fact that, if we go along with these frameworks, the number of policemen will continue to fall dramatically, this will certainly further accelerate the feeling that people are experiencing uncertainty. It would now be important for the government, when considering this strategy for internal security, also to take account of this wider development — what else we have in society, in social services, in health services, in what way this concept of safety is widely understood in people's everyday lives and how it is perceived — and not just to talk about the adequacy of public resources, although they are very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u40	Mr President! Finland is a safe and good country to live in, and we must ensure that help is available everywhere in Finland when the need is greatest, and the police are also available in remote areas. However, security is not only created by the police, as has been said here, but largely through the well-being of citizens and social trust. The government's policy of cutting down on poverty and inequality, the marginalisation of young people and the resulting division of society are indeed important threats to internal security. I would like to ask how the Minister sees how cutting young people in particular, cutting education, cutting the youth guarantee and cutting social security will affect Finland's internal security in the long term and will it increase inequalities and social confrontations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u41	Madam President! Indeed, internal security is the sum of a great many factors, and many political decisions have an impact on the way the internal security situation develops — if not immediately, so over a longer period of time. For example, welfare policies for children and young people, mental health services, employment policies and alcohol policies in particular affect the way the security situation develops. Has the Ministry of the Interior already made any calculations as to how the security situation will develop, as the government is now releasing strong beer and sodas and also continuing the opening hours of restaurants and alcohol sales there and also increasing the opening hours of Alko? In what way will this increase the number of home alarms? In what way will violence and homicide multiply? The National Institute for Health and Welfare has calculated what it will have to do on the health side, but what will all of this have to do with internal security?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u42	Madam President! Internal security really is made up of many pillars, not just of the authorities. Prevention is important. Measures should be taken to minimise the need for emergency security structures in society, such as the police. Unemployment, underprivilegedness and exclusion can increase tensions in Finland. This increase in youth unemployment and long-term unemployment in recent years is truly alarming. The key to increasing internal security must now be employment measures, the social guarantee for young people and the successful integration of refugees, i.e. in good time. Work is the best integration and also internal security management.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u43	Madam President! Internal security affects every day of our lives. This responsibility lies above all with us, with Parliament, and with the legislation that we are preparing and adopting here. I would like to ask you, Mr President: have you carried out an internal security impact assessment when you have prepared legislation for this period? For example, the unequal treatment of children in day care, the cuts in social security for low incomes, the problems of livelihoods and poverty among people and families, the cuts in education leading, for example, to a reduction in the number of graduates, the cuts in workshops, which in practice mean that 10,000 young people are not fully involved in workshops, and then, as has often been said here, the safety effects of alcohol law. Have you carried out an impact assessment on internal security, how all these proposals,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u44	Mr President! This role in social peace is very important. The Sote reform must pay attention to ensuring that those who have some need for care receive it comprehensively. As regards the number of police officers and the prioritisation of tasks relating to their calculation: this has been a negative trend over many years, and it must be said for everyone. There is a similar pressure on the rescue service to prioritize tasks. The reforms that have taken place so far have mainly led to an increase in governance. After all, the reform that is now taking place will reduce the administrative burden and strengthen the operational strength.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u45	Madam President! Internal security is not limited to the Ministry of the Interior alone. That is why the report should also look beyond society. The less poverty, exclusion and extremists are present in society, the more security and confidence there is in society. It is also always cheaper to prevent problems than to deal with the crises that have arisen later. My question to the Minister is: how will this broader concept of security be taken into account in the Internal Security Strategy later on?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u46	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Government for this report on internal security and for the good and constructive group speeches. In particular, it is now appropriate to thank the Green Parliamentary Group for this speech and for the fact that you are shouldering your responsibilities. It is a pity that we have contributed to this lack of resources over a long period of time. Now this government has finally decided to turn around. Thank you for that. In particular, I was warmed up by this government’s policy of assigning 160 new border guards to that eastern border. I would have asked the Minister: how do you see the timetable for this additional resource?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u47	Mr President! Of course, internal security is more than just the number of security authorities. However, it is necessary to comment on this number of police officers, because during the last period we responded, among other things, to the question of the intermission. A good government, in the spending limits decision presented by you, in the budgetary plan, is proposing a reduction in the budget in a way that, according to the assessment of the Police Government, will lead to the number of police officers up to 6500, i.e. 6500, at the end of the spending limits period in 2020, by your own decisions. Congressman Jalonen here said that these must be admitted by each of us. Ladies and gentlemen, you must admit that in the guidelines you have presented, the number of police officers is falling. The SDP suggests that the number of police officers should be established at 7200. That would be the amount of security that can be guaranteed in this country with regard to the safety authorities. I would also like to ask the question of whether, with this rather extensive reform of alcohol law, there is an impact assessment of how it affects the number of policemen and the workload of the police. I'm sure it'll add to the disorder. I'm sure it'll increase domestic violence. Minister Orpo, are you assessing this in the context of the reform of the Alcohol Act?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u48	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u49	Madam President! First of all, I am very pleased that everyone here shares the concern and the objective that the reduction in the number of police officers should be brought to a halt and that is common. But it has to be said now that when we look at this degressive framework — if Mrs Räsänen can prove this — it was the last government that had to make drastic cuts to the internal security framework, too, and the concern arose from the fact that we had a parliamentary group that worked. Now we have increased money both in the Government Programme phase and now in the framework, and then we made this report, which will provide the basis for further work. So I understand that there is no parliamentary party in this Chamber that has not been involved in this difficult budgetary situation with this budgetary issue. Then the essential point is that we will now be able to increase the number of people trained in the police sector last year and this year by 300, and the objective is to achieve 400 next year. The pull is good, and at the moment all graduates have been able to work, and at the moment practically all policemen and women are working. But in the future, when this retirement is rapid, we must be able to keep the number of people trained there in 400, and that will require a correction for the rest of the spending limits period. But it is not just money, it is also operational development, which must be done because money does not grow in the trees, so to speak. Then, quickly, a few comments. PTR cooperation: The personal opinion is that Customs should be linked to the Ministry of the Interior in its current form, because PTR cooperation is very effective. There is a record of this in such a way as to bring one ministry under control, and hopefully it will get the work started as quickly as possible. In the case of carrots, the activity will continue in that area, but efforts will be made to get rid of this expensive state. I'm sure you'll be more specific about that later. I believe that this broader concept of security is a proper concern, but I would like to say that this is now a report by the authorities under the Ministry of the Interior. The strategy will involve society widely and involve a wider concept of security in society, including the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and NGOs. It will then be the place where we will see in what other ways we can increase security. And I suppose it is honest to admit that if you cut off services or benefits, it is not really a safety measure. That is why we need to make the economy grow, we need to improve employment, so that we can move forward from this cycle of cuts, and hopefully one day we can achieve more and better services and benefits. What is important is that we are constantly developing police activity. It was mentioned and asked about local police activity: It has been re-introduced in the repertoire, but something new is being brought in accordingly. Online police activity has proved to be very necessary today and works well. They asked about municipal places. It's a difficult situation. We have promises from the municipalities, the municipalities are receiving asylum seekers, but we should find new ways to do this, the numbers are now so high. We are thinking about raising the municipal compensation. This is difficult in this situation of public finances, but money alone is not the only way to deal with this, but the government is looking at a whole new way of supporting municipalities so that they can find municipal places so that their integration can function in a good way in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u50	Minister Soin, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u51	Madam President! The answer to two questions: Mr Haavisto understood precisely this great need for coordination, which, on the one hand, comes from international terrorism, from international security threats, but, on the other hand, from civil rights and the right of people to be outside the scope of surveillance. We have to be able to coordinate these. This is a question of both security and democracy, and this is an extremely important aspect. Mr Tolvanen also spoke about intelligence and security and asked why the Minister of the Interior is not in UtVA. It certainly does not seem to be, but I can comfort you that he has now sat at every meeting on the corner of the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u52	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u53	Mr President! There are things that need to be compromised in a difficult economic situation, but that is not the way security is. There is absolutely no compromise on the safety of citizens. Minister Soini laughed in the ministerial box when we expressed our concern about this reduction in the number of policemen. I'm really not laughing. And certainly not the citizens, many of whom genuinely feel insecure. I don't think there are any policemen either, Minister Soini. The second thing I would like to raise, which has increased the insecurity of Finns, is the fact that American tanks will soon enter my region of Hankoniem. I admit quite frankly that knowledge of this has also undermined my own sense of security. A small country should promote peace, not rattle weapons. The government should not overlook the importance of a sense of security for the well-being of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u54	Madam President! Congressman Feld-Ranta, I thought Soini wasn't laughing about this. I think that these are somewhat inappropriate comments because they were not actually related to the whole issue. But that's the thing. I would also like to ask, Ministers, when citizens have genuine concerns, not only that there are not only those who are involved in the war, whom we do not reach at all and what they have done before coming here, but also that there are many people coming here who are not going to adapt to Finnish or Western society. They have quite different human dignity and different perceptions of how society should be built here. In that sense, I would like to ask whether it would be more sensible for the government to implement it, as I understand it, in the line that MINVA sees, that asylum seekers from Syria, for example, should be given a better chance to adapt to this society, such as these mentioned Christians or siestas. After all, they have a much better chance of adjusting here, but they have not been able to get here because the UNHCR has not wanted to make this choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u55	Mr President! It is, of course, good that we have received this report before Parliament. I myself missed a slightly broader analysis of the reasons for the feeling of internal security or its lack, and it is good that Minister Orpo here clarified this further work. I would have liked the report itself to have contained a slightly broader description of this situation. A sense of security means safe local communities, community and a certain type of nation integrity, and these goals are not only done by the safety authorities. I would like to come back to the question of whether you intend to carry out an impact assessment in advance in the future. In the recent round, you did not have time to answer this question. This would certainly be a key step towards informing us in advance of the impact of the government's proposals. A few performances have been mentioned here. Then Minister Soin is forced to say that the cuts in development aid for UN organisations do not support the removal of root causes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u56	Madam President! Sufficient police numbers must be guaranteed, and we must work together to find a solution, not by fighting and fighting, but by looking together. The threats to internal security come from outside, as has been pointed out here. The terrorists in Paris and Brussels took advantage of the flow of refugees. We also have asylum seekers who are missing, for example. I would like to ask you, Minister Orpo: what is your assessment of the current threat situation in Finland from the perspective of radicalisation? We have good results from the Krp in the prevention and prevention of school attacks, among other things, and it would be interesting to know what the situation is with regard to this radicalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u57	Madam President! There's already been a woman's peace here today. I myself call for the same peace for men. In Finland, men are most often beaten on the streets, but surprisingly often a man is also a party to intimate partner violence. According to a male victim survey, 17 per cent of women and 16 per cent of men suffer from intimate partner violence. However, 80% of the number of contacts to the police, or four fifths of the number, is specifically from women. This tells us that men in this culture are either afraid to intervene in domestic violence or that we cannot provide them with the kind of help they would need. I ask you, Minister Orpo: have you seen this problem in the Ministry and have you any means to help men better in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u58	Madam President! This report comes at an excellent time. We have many threats coming from outside Finland's borders towards Finland. Under the leadership of Minister Orpo, the Ministry of the Interior has been able to respond to them in a commendable way. It is important to note that, even in this situation, we have not stayed to spin our thumbs but have acted. It's valuable. Of course, the economic situation in Finland is very difficult at the moment. Since 2008, this difficult situation has continued. It sets its own framework conditions, but even in this situation we have not been left inactive and wondering why things are so bad. We must be able to react, and it is this debate and this report that is going through this situation very well. It is important to note now that police services, for example, throughout this country can be secured. The situation has been adapted but can be relied on. In fact, I would like to thank Mr Lindtman, the group chairman of the demos, for taking the countryside into account. I hope that crush is not a one-night crush, but a long-term love affair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u59	Madam President! The availability of police officers must be secured throughout the country, and what is the recipe here is that there is a need for these officer-in-laws more than those pencil-spinners who wonder who is being targeted at and which crimes are not being investigated and which are being investigated. Rhinemen are needed, pencils are not, and resources are now needed for these field police officers. When you talk about this attractiveness of education, your own report states that at the end of the spending limits period, in 18 C.E., there will be a very difficult situation. The question arises as to what the attraction of this training is if there is such an uncertain outlook. The fact is that listening here to the speeches of the government parties left the impression that this reduction in the number of police officers would now be reversed. That is not true; this is going on, not actually going on, but is accelerating. The question is: will the government parties accept this development?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u60	President! The fact is that poverty, exclusion and unemployment are shocking issues of social peace and security, and in that sense well-managed social policy is, to a large extent, a security policy. Minister Orpo, you mentioned that the Finnish security authorities are world-class, as we all know, and this would be fatal. Does the Ministry of the Interior have a determined programme planned to focus attention on working conditions, management systems, so that the work ethic and attitudes of security workers to work remain at an appropriate level and do not deteriorate, because such a decline could indeed be degenerative and, in many respects, shocking,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u61	Madam President! I also agree with those voices that emphasise the role of inequality as a factor of insecurity. Now that we have the chairman of the Finns Party, Minister for Foreign Affairs Timo Soini among us and that even the representatives of the Finnish People's Party have spoken so much about combating inequality, I would like to ask the question: The Finns of Peru have long spoken that they are on the side of an ordinary person and that they are on the behalf of a small person, even against an elite, and now you are in a government that cuts incredibly much from an ordinary person, and you are doing politics that increases inequality. Do you see any contradiction in what you have been driving in the past and now you are driving?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u62	Mr President! Our security environment has changed, as well as the diversity and predictability of threats have diminished. As an example, the change between Russia and the West, hybrid and cyber threats and then large-scale entry have brought new threats. Well, on the one hand, developing technology and digitalisation are exploitable by the safety authorities, but they do not replace skilled people: the tin can does not stop drunk drivers, and the robot does not answer the phone. Already the police and the Border Guard and these are at the limit, and people should no longer be put out of these. And although the economic situation is poor, the emergency services, the police and the fire brigade must be close to every person and, if necessary, across the country and also in the more remote part of the country. This should then be addressed in order to ensure that we are equal in these matters as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u63	Madam President! I'll continue with the number of cops, but from a different point of view. A little bit of the same thing on your page, Mr Parviainen. In other words, I understand that the education and number of police officers with an immigrant background in Finland is very small. For example, around 10 per cent of the population are non-Finnish or Swedish speakers in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. The fact that policemen are also from groups with an immigrant background would certainly be a factor that would increase confidence, cohesion and the respect of the police. Often situations arise where knowledge of culture, knowledge of the language, might be beneficial. I understand that one big threshold here is language skills requirements and the possibility of flexibility in either Finnish or Swedish so that the applicant's native language would be credited in it. Is this possible, and what ideas are under way to develop this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u64	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u65	Madam President! The fact that the government has now decided in relation to the spending limits decision to stop the reduction in the number of policemen and women to 7,000 is a tough decision. I hope that decision will be appreciated. Parliament is fully entitled — and the opposition — to ensure that this objective is achieved during future budgets and spending limits and with reforms in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior. At the same time, Parliament has the opportunity to discuss the report. But it is a tough decision — because without this line and the fact that nothing would be done, the report says that 6500 policemen would go to the police. At least there's no one in this room who apparently wants it. This is a big decision. That's what I still want to underline. There are a few things that have not been answered. Firstly, this strengthening of the eastern border when Mr Kärnä asked: this year, 50 border posts are already being transferred to land border control and in the next three years the remaining 100 front-loaded. Preparation is going on, it's on fire, it's on preparation. Prioritization, that's a big question. I cannot say at this stage whether the prioritisation, how it will be done, but I think it is right for us, the security authorities and the police, that the political decision-maker will have that debate, will see the enormous amount of work that we have to do in the face of new challenges when the former are at the bottom. Let us have the political debate to understand where we are and where our security authorities are currently working. Although that word is difficult, it must also be considered, because for that purpose the political decision-maker is to make decisions. Of course, we have to assume that everything we can do is done, but I don't think it's possible. Safety of the nuclear power plant site: Yes, there have also been international vandalists and operators, which indicates that there are links abroad. The police and the protection police are operational and responsible in this respect. I believe that impact assessments of these different government decisions on internal security are something that should be raised in the context of the strategy, because then this debate will be extended to wider social security. It is worth considering whether such a safety impact assessment can be carried out. The parliamentary group would definitely bring long-termism, so it is worth discussing this possibility with the central prime minister, and then we can think about it, but I think it would bring long-termism and perhaps broad-basedness. However, security is the basic element which could be a good, broad, common vision. An estimate of the threat situation — Mr Heinonen asked. So we've had new threats. The threat of terrorism has increased somewhat, but the threat of this kind of planned, organised terrorist attack in Finland is a very low level, but when there are structures that support terrorism in Finland and there are people in Finland who are connected to terrorism, we cannot unfortunately rule it out in an open society. For example, with the resources that exist in connection with immigration, our security authorities — the police, immigration authorities, the police — are doing everything possible to identify, identify and identify those people. In this respect, international cooperation is everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u66	Madam President! I'll start with this nuclear site. Yes, it was gruesome, in what condition the camp was after when the conservationists were resisting nuclear power. The power of the example is great. Congressman Feldt-Ranta here asked about the tanks in Hanko. I do not quite understand what that has to do with this, but I would have asked him or Mr Rinte whether the SDP was against international practice, because that would be new news for me. I do not think that is the case. Madam President! Congressman Lindtman asked for the reins. How about the Raatikainen? He'll be right behind you. We Finns have five police officers in a group, we know these things. I say to Mr Yanar that yes, cutting policy is tough, but even harder it would be if future generations were left with a debt bomb that is about to emerge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u67	Mr President! Preventing exclusion and building trust are among the most important and key issues for internal security. At the moment, however, that confidence in remote areas is very much undermined by the fact that the police are not available when they need to be. Other official assistance is in the search. In North Karelia, the rescue service has built strong cooperation with the police and border guard, and very good work has been done there. Civil protection has also been very widely active in emergency care, and now that the social welfare reform is taking emergency care away from it and taking it to five social welfare areas, this is a violation of this very good, effective cooperation, which has also helped people in sparsely populated areas. This is precisely what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u68	Mr President! As has been made clear in the debate here, perhaps the most important factor in internal security is the number of policemen. It must be noted with satisfaction that the government has limited it to the minimum of 7,000 persons, even if the report has shown that it will fall even to the 6500. For a long time, the reason is that policemen retire far more than they can get new police officers. Well, now I would like to ask the Minister whether there is any question of how to increase the attractiveness of the Police College of Applied Sciences, i.e. to get more and more high-quality applicants and applicants to the Police College of Applied Sciences. Would it be possible, for example, to return to that old system, to free housing and free food — which have gone away in previous years — because this would then provide an adequate amount and then end up with at least the 7,000 police officers?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u69	Mr President! There is music to the ears when the left and the Greens want more police officers in Finland like us Finns. The only contradiction is that the left wants to open borders with all the threats and then on top of the police to observe. We want controlled entry, rapid investigation and effective removal for those who are not entitled to stay here. It is strange that in other Nordic countries, the number of police officers relative to the population is on the rise, as it has been on the decline in Finland. The Minister of the Interior said that police officers from Polamk will not be completed as quickly as they are now retiring, and the government has responded and, as the Minister said, the situation will be closely monitored and reacted accordingly. Mr Semi mentioned these attraction factors earlier, and I think he has just come back from it, and indeed this quality of applicants is quite essential: many young people do not know at the time that such smoking convictions affect the fact that then
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u70	Mr President! First of all, with regard to the abolition of the police on the road to Mr Räsänen: It had to be the case that the number of bosses was to be reduced and the resources on the ground increased, but unfortunately, there has been a signal from the airport, from both the drivers' organisations and from the police, that this control has been weakened and those measures have been reduced and resources have been weakened in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u71	Mr President! It is understandable that the Finnish People's Party, which has already become a major police party, is suffering in this debate, because during the last period the issue was raised on an issue where it is now being taken to an even lower level. However, there is no point in asking for absolution from the board of directors. The government parties have power in the frame, that power is exercised, and this responsibility cannot even be avoided by Group Chairman Terho. I would like to ask the Minister, who I do acknowledge for bringing this report into the Chamber, also for the whole staff, about this introduction of the supplementary police system. A little over a year ago, the Working Party of Officials also proposed making it possible to introduce in situations other than serious emergency situations. What do you think of this? Then I will renew the question of these field police officers: Now that 7,000 field police have been mentioned, are there still hundreds of officers coming on top of this? What's the right number now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u72	I will give the floor to the representatives of Räsänen, Mattila and Korhonen, after which the Minister will have the floor, and then they will have further debatation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u73	Mr President! Of course, that 7,000 police pain limit is better than the 6500 police border based on government frameworks, but I would now like to remind us all, and also Mrs Terho, who spoke on this point, that just over a year ago, all of us in Parliament agreed together to invest around EUR 100 million more in internal security and justice operators and to maintain the current level. However, it is now clearly going down, and I do not think that we should give up on this. In other words, we Christian Democrats want to support Minister Orpo in the sense that you demand even more, demand that the government retain that 7,250 policemen. And then I hope that if you don't have an answer to what you're bringing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u74	Mr President! I must say to Mr Kari that there are no 7500 police officers in the interim text itself. I do not deny that it would not be good enough, but you are not asking for 7500 yourself in this Chamber today. But this is also a good line from the Minister. The question of the interim was specifically about the abolition of the mobile police. In a rather good spirit in the Administrative Committee, that reform of the administrative structure of the police was otherwise carried through. What we disagreed with was the abolition of the mobile police as a national unit. But, Minister Orpo, I would like to bring to your attention when there was talk of peace in school — or I am sure you know, but I would like to emphasise — what is in the field of school police. It is a very small player, but I believe that the experience of school police in several cities is particularly important for school peace. I think that they are a good example of what the authorities are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u75	And before Mr Korho and the Minister, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u76	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity, because I now have to say to Mr Mattila and all the Finns: you will not get out of this now. You yourself, Mr Mattila, said in the debate on the interim question that at that time, even at a slightly higher level than today, the tasks of the police cannot be carried out with current resources even at a level of principle. In your view, therefore, even on a principle level, the amount of resources that were now significantly higher than the level of 7,000 proposed by the government is not sufficient for the police to carry out their duties. And it was known that in most things the Finns of Peru are now unable to keep their electoral promises from supporting Greece, but it could have been thought that even in this police matter is being held. Mr President! Congressman Kari brought up an important new opening,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u77	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, no one here is suffering from the debate, as you claim. We are suffering from a reduction in the number of police officers who have not yet been able to break the trend that you have begun. During this parliamentary term, we will stop the decrease in the number of police officers to the 7,000 promised by the Minister. You couldn't do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u78	And now for the reply, Mr Korhonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u79	Mr President! This internal security report should have been carried out in good time in the last period, as requested by the Centre at the time. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. I'm glad the current government did this. Now, of course, the problem is that the frameworks came before this report, which, in my world view, simply means that, in future, there will be a great deal of pressure on this strategic work and the operational programme to make it work as well as on financial resources. With regard to these economic issues, of course, although I personally said in that group speech that we should look not back but into the future, I was looking at these alternative budgets last autumn, and this said that none of the present opposition parties proposed additional money in their alternative budgets for the internal security authority, only for the police in the case of the grey economy, which the government had contributed to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u80	And now the Minister has the floor, for two minutes, and if that is not enough, then in a moment the Minister will be re-elected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u81	Mr President! First of all, Mr Kiuru asked about these language requirements: there must be equal access criteria, but possible non-language criteria should be used to draw attention to the fact that people with an immigrant background should also be able to apply for police training. Discontinuation of the mobile police, it always talks. It is important to ensure that, when combined with local police activities, the objectives set in traffic control, which have been recorded by the Parliamentary Administrative Committee, are realised. It must be monitored to ensure that this also happens, but according to the official reports I have received so far, the levels of control are at the level that has been sought. There may be regional differences. It's a continuum cop. The legislative project is about to start, and here we are looking for the right way and what the supplementary police would do, what kind of situations they could be used in. It is a sensitive issue and, among other things, it needs to be discussed carefully with the police unions about how to proceed. But in this changed security picture and with the various new threats, we should already have this type of reserve. Fortunately, the Police College of Applied Sciences was very attractive again this time. There were many applicants, and there is a high belief that high-quality people will now be admitted to police training. We now need to make a decision in the near future that the number of admissions for next year will be 400, and the small adjustments already made to the spending limits of 5 million, 10 million next year, will give rise to this. But now, if we look at purely money what the addition of this 7,000 policemen means, that is, if there are no other measures, then there will be a correction of some 15 to 20 million in the spending limits period at the end of the spending limits period, and I think that is, in fact, within the limits of the possibilities, that this can then be dealt with. Now the first step is that this is the decision. Then we'll increase the numbers of training and do good work together. So the number of field cops is the 7,000 we're talking about, plus the protection police. It is therefore the strength of the policemen and women as a whole. The impact of alcohol law on internal security: I am not very familiar with it, but I have to study it. I think there must have been a lot of thought about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u82	That's right. — Reply, Mr Hongisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u83	Mr President! Many speeches have drawn attention to the number of policemen, and when the Minister said that if we went on a flat run table and according to the framework, the number of policemen would fall to that 6500, and now it has been said in many speeches that the government will stop it to 7,000. At least I understand and interpret this as the government's intention to allocate more money to the police. I would now like to ask the Minister, who will be sensitive to my question: have I interpreted and understood the matter correctly that there is enough funding for the police to stop at least at the 7,000? Then, to the brothers on the left, or to the SDP, the question of governments coming and going: if and then in the future you are under government responsibility, will you now solemnly undertake to promise here that, while you are in government, the number of policemen will be at least 7200?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u84	Mr President! To this question or comment by Mrs Korhonen: We had an alternative budget for police training and the informal economy. When the frameworks were made, the entire Administrative Committee unanimously felt that the frameworks in 2018, when it will be a major collapse and change, should be able to increase funding. It was not just the position of the Socialists or other opposition parties, but also the parties of the government as a whole. One question relating to the emergency services which are now being transferred to five regions in relation to social protection. There is already a question of the removal of emergency care, which is a big risk, and there is a lot of concern in those areas. But just as a rumor has been heard, there is no way we're dealing with a private rescue operation or a company, as it seems to be the fashion word in this mess now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u85	Mr President! I have to ask myself a few questions about this criticism by the SDP. During the previous government period, you had the portfolio of the Minister of Finance, and even then internal security was brutally cut. You have contributed to this issue. Did you then understand, when you adopted the decisions on the spending limits, where this will lead and how it will not be possible to deal with this matter quickly, even if it is desired? We know that, at the moment, policemen in Finland, bordermen, in practice, have full employment. In this country, we do not grow policemen, frontier men in the trees from which they are taken and quickly assigned to work. It's a long process. It is the result of a long-term development that we are now in, and I would like to extend warm thanks to the Government for having now finally decided to break this cycle and raise Finland's rise on this issue as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u86	Mr President! After all, we have an effective, reliable and well-respected police officer. The Western Media conducted a survey of these reliable police officers, and 166 police officers responded. "How do you expect to perform your work tasks with existing resources? "25.9percent said that work tasks are often unsettled, and51percent that work tasks The comment was: "Emergency missions have to be abandoned more and more often, and patrolling in small towns has been forgotten because there is no time left. Geographically, more and more areas are left without a police patrol. Some of the alarm missions that have been sent to the police will not be carried out because there will no longer be enough patrols for everyone." Are you aware of the lessons of these excellent field police officers today when they are motivated to do their job? Finally, I would like to say that it is great that we are now all committed to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u87	Mr President! As has been the case here today in many speeches, the issue of internal security is, of course, much wider than just the number of policemen. But now that we have talked about this number of policemen, it has been wonderful to hear that there is a very large consensus here that we must have enough police officers both in the field and across the country. The need to prioritize police duties, which has also been highlighted in the report, is certainly right, but I would like to point out that the temptation to reduce the number of police officers at the desk first may also prove to be difficult in the long run, because, for example, environmental or economic crimes or the informal economy needs a police force, and it also generates revenue for the state, with which we can then maintain both the police and much more. It is also dangerous to cut back on preventive work and the fight against hidden crime, because it is also dangerous to do so in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u88	All right, and now I will give three replies, and then the Minister will be given a second two-minute speech. He's going to have to go out on other things. First of all, Mr Hakkarainen, Mr Razmyar and Mr Hoskonen, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u89	Mr President! About that internal security: the demographic structure. On 15 May, an article was published in Helsingin Sanomat entitled "The Alone". I quote little about it: "According to Statistics Finland, there were 155 municipalities in Finland last year where the gender distribution of young adults was at least as unbalanced as in China." So there's these bachelors there, in the countryside, from every square foot. Now that these immigrants are here to be integrated, and when they are, most of them, men, that is, 90%, how do you put them in there when there are no women for them already, and then, let them not say, how do they integrate there? I'm sure there'll be collisions at some point. Has the minister taken this into account, or are the people of the People’s Republic of Finland out of the way of Muslim men?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u90	All right, that's the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u91	Mr President! First of all, thank you for this report. That is an honest analysis and it is certainly welcome. Now all we have to do is wait for it to work. It is absolutely true that inequality and uncertainty create a feeling of insecurity, and that feeling of insecurity must be taken seriously. Even in difficult times, extreme phenomena are increasing, and unfortunately, they are examples of extremist violence, hatreds of extremists across Europe, but unfortunately also in Finland. How does the government intend to intervene, how does the government intend to take this into account, and how, in particular, will this issue be reflected in your internal security strategy, which we also look forward to seeing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u92	Mr Hoskonen, I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u93	Mr President! One important part of Finnish security and the safety of Finns is that we are able to control our own borders in such a way that the integrity of Finland's land areas, sea areas and airspace is preserved. The situation of the Border Guard in Finland today is reasonably difficult. There are situations where, once and for all, there is not enough crew to go where they are most needed. The Border Guard has made a determined effort, including through a very strong increase in technical controls at the eastern border. Fortunately, a few additional posts have been put in place, but it is important to draw attention now to the fact that, at the green border, we can be credible in controlling the integrity of the border, because we have to remember that our border is the Schengen border outwards, and then our eastern neighbour assumes and knows that we are able to guard our border well in cooperation. The Russians keep their side in order, and we keep ours. Is there any significant increase in human resources coming to this, I will ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u94	Now the Minister has the floor, and then, after the Minister has spoken, those representatives who still want to use the replies, most of all then up and down with the V button. After that period of debate, we shall now proceed to the actual speeches. — Now, Minister, please, two minutes on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u95	Mr President! I'll start with rescue when it was forgotten there earlier. The rescue services will therefore be transferred to five major areas with a university central hospital. It makes sense to do so, because in the rescue service, which is compared to the larger divisions of the Emergency Response Centre, this works perfectly well. But those local rescue services don't go anywhere from there, and they don't get incorporated. Rescue is a public activity. But then we have to separate the emergency care, which means that the rescue and rescue services have a key role to play today and will continue to be. But now, as far as the production of this emergency care is concerned, we need to resolve the fact that, as is the case today, the possibility of a multi-producer model should continue to exist there. But the rescue department will continue to play a large, central and major role in this production of emergency care. But, at the local level, the only thing that should be reflected in this actual rescue effort is that resources and bureaucracy and administration are still being reduced. The principle of the nearest patrol, which is excellent, is used and then all security authorities cooperate well. This well-being of policemen and women at work, the associated pressure to carry out their duties, is known. That is one of the reasons why this report has been made, because we have concerns about how our security authorities, men and women, can cope under the pressure of work. That's why we need to talk about prioritising. If there are too many tasks in relation to resources, it is disproportionate for an individual official to leave these matters to decide. We must also be able to talk about it as politicians, even though it is difficult. In many ways, then, deskwork can play an essential role in the work of today’s police and security authorities. Economic crime, the fight against terrorism, intelligence, the fight against the black economy all call for deskwork. In fact, today, when considering the attractiveness of police training, attention should be paid to this. From integration to Mr Hakkarainen: You can continue — I am running out of time — with Minister Lindström, responsible for integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u96	Jaha, a short period of debatt, and the first representative Räsänen, then Mrs Hautala. Let's get moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u97	Mr President! When resources are scarce, it is particularly important to ensure that the powers of the authorities are adequate. After all, at the moment we are clearly lacking in legislation, particularly from the point of view of intelligence, such as the fight against terrorism. That is why I appeal to all the parliamentary parties to really get the intelligence laws adopted now during this parliamentary term in terms of internal security, so that we can have our own legislation at the same level as in other Nordic countries, for example. Then I would like to point out that, at the end of the last period, the Ministry of the Interior carried out an in-depth study of the so-called ex-post home search. On many occasions, I have asked Minister Orpo what stage that legislative preparation is at. In this respect, too, we have a clear shortage compared to the other Nordic countries, and I hope that this will be achieved by:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u98	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Orpo was now forced to leave, but in his speech just now he drew attention to the fact that the decision-making of the rescue services in this regional reform is now going to five districts, i.e. these special responsibilities. I am a little surprised at this procedure, because it is going to be the case that these five special areas of responsibility are taking decisions, but the social areas or these provinces are paying. Then there's a big contradiction when one decides and the other pays. In view of the division of emergency centres and the models that have already worked for these rescue services, I think it would be worth considering again in the Ministry of the Interior whether this task should be placed in the hands of the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u99	Mr President! It's a shame the minister had to leave. I would have thanked the Government for its commendable internal security report. This is the first of its kind and a good start. We need to get more of these and better ones in the future. I am thinking of listening to the Minister's last speech just now that the question is that the Government is now bringing to the attention of Parliament the main problems of police resources, internal security resources, and, after reading this report, Parliament is well aware of the small amount of resources the police have to deal with. We'll have to prioritize our missions. This means that some important tasks are left unattended by the police, and this is, of course, a very bitter question for Parliament. The second thing that may be missing from the report is that it is confined only to the Ministry of the Interior. Here at the beginning of Olli-Son Parviainen commented that this report could have included areas in other ministries more widely. I am thinking in particular of Finland as the leading country in violence against women, and this problem is not addressed at all, even though it is a major part of our problem of internal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u100	Mr President! On page 45 of the Internal Security Report, it is stated that fast-moving technology and its potential must be taken into account in the preparation of the Internal Security Strategy. As the security situation in Finland, especially with regard to the growth of negative residence permit decisions, changes now and in the future, I am concerned about how the authorities will be able to monitor possible repercussions. Home Secretary Orpo has mentioned return centres, which are also supported by the Finns, but how can we monitor and identify the people in these return centres and their mobility within the country? A comprehensive biometric bank would be needed for these people, just as there is a requirement for every person who has applied for a biometric passport in Finland. Otherwise, there may be criminal activity that is not to blame, because we would then have these people living outside our legal system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u101	Mr President! The issues of internal security have been discussed very extensively here today, but I would also like to highlight the importance of crisis management, which will certainly be emphasised. Society and we in these studies and strategies must have a plan to deal with different crises. People must have knowledge and confidence as to who acts, who is responsible, when things happen and with whom they act, whether military crises, natural disasters or epidemics. Military security and the functioning of foreign policy and security of supply are also the cornerstones of crisis preparedness. However, all activities originate from individuals and also from society’s ability to train for crisis preparedness. That is why, alongside police training, I would like to remind you of the importance of crisis preparedness training and its further development in our strategies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u102	Mr President! Police have developed their activities and cooperation with other actors in a commendable way, and North Karelia is a good example of cooperation between different actors. But if the number of policemen continues to decrease, then digitalization technology or willingness to cooperate will not help to guarantee security. Add to this: The deteriorating resources of the Emergency Response Centre will make maintaining security a real challenge in the future, especially in sparsely populated areas. Mr President! At the end of the day, the Minister's comments on the incorporation of emergency care didn't sound good. I was really worried about this, there are so many risks involved. On this point, I am disappointed by the government's policies and I hope that the government will reconsider this issue once again. Because this is no small thing. This could be a real big problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u103	Mr President! Once again, I would like to raise this important issue, the whole matter of legal certainty and also the sense of security, that this whole chain – that is, the police, the prosecutor, the courts, everyone – has sufficient resources and that the citizen can be confident that matters will be dealt with quickly, that matters will be dealt with at the top of the list. This is a big challenge for the government and for all of us to secure these adequate resources. This parliamentary group, which issued its recommendations last year, considered that this would require more than EUR 70 million. This is a big challenge, and I would have asked the Minister about it too, but he has already left. But let me say once again that this is one of the biggest challenges for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u104	Mr President! Internal security issues need to be revalued. In that sense, it is extremely good that this report was now received, first of its kind. It is important that this should be repeated in the future also by parliamentary term, i.e. by parliamentary term a new report will always be issued. We have had a very good debate here on the basis of the parliamentary procedure. Now we are going to move to the next stage, and it is important that this strategy work is now carried out on the basis of the guidelines and views that Parliament will be making on this report in the future. What was interesting in itself was that, in my group speech, when I put forward a parliamentary negotiating board to move forward with this work and to align it over the parliamentary term, no opposition party here came to support it, and that is probably the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u105	Mr President! I think that this debate has highlighted in a very good way the fact that it is very important today for us to be able to take care of the everyday safety of our citizens. There is a concern about what this rather brutal policy of cutting is doing: it is causing insecurity. Here Mr Paatero spoke earlier, for example, about the importance of prevention and the cuts to it. This is the wrong way to cut, and in this respect the direction should be changed. President, I would also like to take the floor at the end of this debate on what has been said here earlier. It is a pity that the group chairman of the Finns Party left the hall. But when he so strongly argued and told that now the government would be cutting off the number of police officers, with what kind of math is that possible, because at the end of last season there were 7200 policemen, this is set at 7,000,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u106	And now for Mrs Kari, who appeared to be rising during Mr Korhonen's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u107	Mr. Speaker! First of all, I would like to say about the Border Guard: in this debate, the police and the number of police officers have risen to the heart of the debate, and certainly on the subject and for a reason. But at least as important as it is to talk about the police, it would also be to talk about the Border Guard, because for a long time, even over several years and years of government, a situation has arisen in which the resources of the Border Guard have fallen worryingly — especially in view of hybrid threats and a different influence on Finland. Fortunately, cooperation with Finnish border authorities and Russian authorities and ministries works. But to this comment by Mr Korhonen: We need genuine and good preparation, which goes from a long line. In a situation where we are dealing with
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u108	Mr President! I, too, wonder what will happen at the eastern border of Finland at the turn of September/October in four months' time. In fact, 180 days have passed since President Putin partially closed that eastern border, i.e. no longer allowing asylum seekers to come here. But what happens at the turn of September and October? There is one clear threat to this country. Another threat is that, at the moment, you ignorant people have 2,500 asylum seekers. Some of these people are underage, and you can rest assured that they are not in Neverland, or if they are, it is today's Neverland, not led by Captain Hook, but led by some criminal gang or possibly some gang of terrorists. Now it is a pity that the Minister is no longer here, which means that he cannot ask a question, but his concern can always be expressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u109	I have also noticed at this stage of the debate when I asked for the floor: Mr Paatero and Mr Savio, and Mr Niikko and Mr Korhonen, and that will be cut off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u110	Mr President! I am still continuing with this connection between emergency care, rescue and preparedness, because I understand that the safety of citizens and, in particular, the preparedness for major accidents is based on this triunity. Now, if there is this version, as the Minister has just suggested, that emergency care should be taken as a separate whole and incorporated and competed with the private market, then we have a big gap here as a whole. That is why I hope that the government will go through this part of the war and regional revolution again so that this first treatment will not be put there at the mercy of business. For parliamentary activities: During the last period there was a working group preparing a parliamentary strategy, which was made up of these guidelines, which have been referred to for a long time, and we have always supported it. Now I think it would be even more important for the group to make a strategy, first and foremost,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u111	Mr President! Earlier today, the Minister for the Interior mentioned that particular attention should be paid to the return of asylum seekers who have been rejected, and Mrs Elok has just commented on this. These applicants who have received a negative asylum decision may at times have great motivation to stay in Finland without the information of the authorities, and, unfortunately, there is also an increasing risk of engaging in criminal activities. It would therefore be appropriate for these persons who have received a negative asylum decision to be transferred either to detention units or to more intensively controlled return centres established in accordance with the Government’s asylum policy action programme and providing only minimum services, and they are also mentioned in this report. This would be a simple and cost-effective way to improve Finland's internal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u112	Mr President! To this parliamentary preparation. All in all, therefore, I proposed continuity with this whole internal security package, i.e. first of all the drafting of the report in the context of each parliamentary term. It is important for us to establish such well-established practices. So there would be an internal security report per electoral period, but then there would also be a parliamentary negotiating board such as this to build a vision between parties beyond the parliamentary term of office on the key internal security solutions for the future of this society as a whole. That is, such long-term continuity in this itself of this parliamentary
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u113	And Mr Niikko and then, finally, Mr Kari and then over, then on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u114	Mr President! Mr Orpo has well understood that internal security and care for it are at the heart of the state's tasks, and at the moment the resources are in place. But it is clear that resources must continue to be properly measured. In that sense, I think that the Social Democrats' criticism of the ministry here is unreasonable, because, for example, the retirement of the police was the great reason why very many police officers will be left out in the future, and the Minister promised that funding would be secured for them. But what worries me more is the fact that the Minister made a speech at the beginning in which he mentioned that it is very possible that the flow of asylum seekers will continue to threaten Finland. This is absolutely true, because more than one million Africans are currently waiting in Libya to enter Europe and Italy on a continuous basis. It was worrying when the Minister said that we should be prepared for it, but we are not prepared for it. After all, we should be prepared by some kind of advance decision for what kind of legislation we are making: will we let them go?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u115	Mr President! A year ago, I was Vice-President of the Parliamentary Working Group on Internal Security, which considered long-term issues of internal security and justice. As I said in my previous speech, both in terms of internal security and external security, the small Finnish people, the people of over five million, need the greatest possible consensus. It would always be good to seek a wider parliamentary margin for those things that are being carried out in a government-led manner, so that we do not have to make major changes of direction every four years on key issues of internal or external security. But there is also the feature of these reports that I am currently allowed to be on the foreign and security policy side of the monitoring group when the government is preparing a report on UTP issues and this type of work phase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u116	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u117	Mr President! The Government's Internal Security Report truthfully states that the threat of terrorism has also increased in Finland. The main objective of internal security in the EU has been identified as the fight against terrorism and against recruitment and financing of terrorism. According to Europol, 151 people were killed in terrorist attacks in Europe last year, including 150 in Islamic extremist attacks. According to the Protection Police, Finland has formed a network of extremist Islamists, at least some of whose members are experienced fighters who have returned from the Syrian war. There is no immediate threat of terrorism to the security of the country, but the jihadists are becoming active. The Nordic welfare state cannot, with social support, save death from a cult that is ideologically represented by extremist Islamism. Preventive action can be considered to be an extension of the criminality of terrorist offences, which has already led, among other things, to stricter funding regulations. I put a written question about stepping up anti-Islamist action. According to my reply from Home Secretary Orpo, more than half of those who went to combat areas have Finnish citizenship. According to Article 9 of the Constitution, 'The citizen of Finland must not be prevented from entering the country, expelled from the country or, contrary to his will, extradited or transferred to another country'. As such, our well-founded legislation is countering our public security in the case of extremist Islamists. Foreign extremists may be subject to an entry ban pursuant to Article 156 of the Aliens Act. In recent years, radical preachers in Finland have been visited at least by the spiritual leader of the Somali terrorist organisation al-Shabaab, Hassan Hussein, Sheikh Khalid Yas and Anjem Choudary. I have wondered, and I still wonder, that such individuals will be able to spread their destructive world view to Finland. The work of radical preachers has contributed to the fact that, in proportion to our population, an exceptionally large number of fighters have left Finland in Syria and Iraq. Mr President! According to Article 5 of the Constitution and Article 4 of the Citizenship Act, no one can be excluded from citizenship if he is made stateless as a result. Current legislation puts narrow bodies in the fight against terrorism. The Finnish citizen who entered the ranks of extremist Islamists shows by his act that he rejects the Western values on which Finnish society is built. A person joins the enemy’s armed forces, which, in my view, compares with treason. Finnish citizenship should be a given privilege, not an inalienable human right. Anyone who violently rejects Western democracy should not have the right to be a citizen of Western democracy. The government has taken decisive action with regard to dual citizens. At the request of the True Finns, the law will enable Finland’s citizenship to be annulled from the dual citizens involved in terrorist activities. The investigation of the amendment will begin in the autumn following the criminalisation of participation and travel abroad in the activities of an organisation classified as a terrorist organisation by the UN and the EU for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence and the financing of such travel. Mr President! The President of the Republic, Sauli Niinistö, believes that the EU's Turkey agreement is not complete but nevertheless worthy of support. This is how I see it. The statistics show that the agreement has significantly reduced the flow of people from Turkey to Greece. In practice, the proposal is close to my presentation last June on the conversion of refugee boats. It's not just the sea that converts. It's Greek soil. However, the real test for Europe will come in the summer. In accordance with the Government Programme, Finland is responsible for reducing the attractiveness of asylum seekers, ensuring our border security and implementing the Government's policy guidelines on asylum policy. Everyone now knows how difficult things can get. No one can say next summer that we didn't know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u118	Honored Speaker! Finland is undeniably one of the safest countries in the world. We Finns also want to keep Finland that way. Chaos in the world will not end chaos by spreading. The report honestly tells us what problems the wave of asylum seekers has experienced last year: disruptions in reception centres and their surroundings, sexual harassment and organised crime. If and when human rights conventions lead to human rights being trampled on and not to their original purpose, the responsible State will interpret them also in the light of national interests. The current asylum policy threatens the safety of Finns, although much has been improved. It also directs money to feed starving children to accommodate young men in an expensive Europe. It is too late to cry about the loss of internal security if, of course, we want to promote illegal immigration, which in other European countries has, in the long term, led to very harsh results. You do not just have to look at the rise of terrorism and the actions that have taken place. Millions of people have arrived in Western Europe who do not even want to adapt to Western society. In that sense, we must honestly look at what has gone wrong. Ensuring security is one of the central tasks of the state. We need resources to do that. Last December, in the Committee on Finance, we directed additional money to support the fight against terrorism, to the local police to safeguard the environment in reception centres, to the Border Guard to control aircraft and to the National Defence Organisation. In a responsible line, it is worth continuing despite the economic situation. Internal security also requires adequate convictions for crimes. Yesterday, on the news, a man who held a young woman prisoner for four years received five years and eight months in prison in court. She was abused and forced to bear four children. A sentence of less than six years for taking away another freedom for four years is unreasonably short. If a man does not have a prison sentence for the past few years, he will probably only have half of his current sentence. The public's sense of justice can't stand such mild sentences in gross crimes. This is commonplace in Finland. This has to change. In principle, the prison sentence for serious crimes, such as murder or trafficking in human beings, should be completely incarcerated. I made a bill on it last month. It was signed by, among other things, 28 representatives of the Finnish People's Party. I believe that this will take place during this parliamentary term, especially when the Minister of Justice, elected by the Finns of Finland, is sitting on the board. The Government will be transparent about the security situation. We acknowledge the facts so that we can improve the situation. We also recognise that Finland has done and is doing long-term and responsible work for security. We have a viable and reliable police force, a Border Guard, an army and others. The public trusts the security authorities, and that trust must be maintained. The implementation of the asylum policy action plan in paragraph 80 of the Government is progressing. At the moment, there are about 100 asylum seekers crossing the border per week, but the risk of a new wave is, as the Minister of the Interior has also mentioned here today. It is essential for the safety of people living in Finland to take national measures. The failure of the Dublin system has shown in a very harsh way that solidarity in Europe unfortunately does not work. Asylum seekers still tell how, for example, the Swedish authorities have directed them to Finland. Sweden has not respected these agreements and principles, but has sought to push responsibility away from their own country. In future, Finland must not consent to any form of exploitation, but simply stop receiving asylum seekers from the border. If we do not make any change, or if we do not even prepare for change, we will continue along the same lines as last autumn. We are responsible for our own country, above all for the Finnish citizens, who have chosen us here to make decisions. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we must be on the edge of time and make rapid decisions and changes if the situation continues to demand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u119	Mr President! The world has changed a lot over a generation. Many totalitarian social systems collapsed in the 1990s. Globalisation affected not only trade and financial markets but also people's mobility. The borders were lowered. At times, the change was dramatic: barbed wire and minefields were dismantled from the prisons of the nations at the external borders, and people were allowed to move freely. At times, the change was commonplace: the democratic rule of law found that there was no longer any reason to keep the service looking at people’s movements. Today, the borders are about to return. Especially in democratic systems, there is a significant turnaround. Walls have already been built in the direction of the Balkans. New ones are promised when Mexico, when Italy will be erected. The argument behind the construction of border barriers is profit-making internal security. The Walls are promised to fight drug trafficking and terrorists. The most forthright people say without question that they are needed to combat the arrival of all kinds of immigrants, whether they are job seekers or asylum seekers. Mr President! The dismantling of borders is presented as idealism. Realism is seen in the construction of borders. The image is simple, or more accurately, the image is distorted. Border control is necessary, but it is a pious wishful idea to imagine that we will remain safe behind the walls. Real internal security requires us to be able to influence problems beyond our borders and to manage the risk factors of society within our borders. The management of international migration begins far from our borders. By ensuring an adequate level of development cooperation and the freedom of international trade, we will also improve the opportunities for living and livelihood in those countries which have a broad desire to move towards better-trusted countries, towards Europe. By also offering legal channels of entry, we can change the current situation in which all those who come from refugees to job seekers are mixed with those who have evil in mind. Internal security requires special action within the borders of our country. Displacement is the greatest security threat. This is true of what is known as ordinary crime, which, according to the report, is the responsibility of a small minority who are excluded. Exclusion is also linked to the threat of terrorism. The common denominator of those responsible for terrorist acts in Europe is, in most cases, past unemployment and past non-political crimes. The Government's report limits its review to the activities of the Home Affairs Administration. An effective safety policy requires an extension of the review. Mr President! Internal security requires that the security authorities — the police, the Border Guard and others — have sufficient resources. The Social Democrats argue that the number of police officers should not be allowed to fall below 7200. Under the Government spending limits policy, i.e. the budgetary plan, we will end up at the end of the spending limits period, 2020, at the worst of 6500. The SDP aims to achieve an adequate level of police, especially in our country's sparsely populated areas in northern and eastern Finland. We believe that the number of police officers should be established at 7200. But, President-in-Office, internal security also requires that we see both the global problems and the risks associated with the integrity and inequality of our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u120	Mr President! It is good that the internal security report has been carried out — I must say that unfortunately it is only now, but it is good that it is now. Hopefully it will be on the same page as the report on foreign and security policy and defence policy. Recognizing the facts is usually the beginning of wisdom. This report recognises the fact, among other things, that the level of action of the safety authorities in the years 16 and 17 is at a good level but then falls to an alarming level. It is therefore a good thing that the report states, among other things, that the number of police officers does not fall below 7000 — by the way, another 200 protection officers will be added — and the number of emergency callers will not fall below 600 person-years. Of course, these amounts are already below the pain limit, they are too small, but at worst they would have gone much lower. And no matter what decisions we take now, they will only be visible after three years, which is, unfortunately, the number of police training has not been increased before, because now that number will be reduced to at least 7000 plus 200 protection police officers still on top. That's right. Then there have also been some lively descriptions of the changes in our security environment, and they are all true. We have an unpredictable neighbour, Russia, we have hybrid threats, we have terrorism, we have had 32476 asylum seekers during the winter, and we also have different types of cyber threats. This is real. And our level of terrorist threats has risen slightly, although of course it is not big at the moment. This is a good thing to recognise, and now that a strategy is being drawn up, we need to find medicines for these. At the same time, quite rightly, the public's sense of insecurity has increased due to the hard crimes and crime threats I have just told, but also because of the everyday activities of such things. We have more and more behaviour in social media that we have never had before. We have more traffic or wheel rage, as it is called, and unfortunately our street image has become increasingly unsafe. However, it is a fact that, according to criminal statistics, our total crime rate has decreased — that is to say, it has decreased — but people are increasingly feeling insecure. We have seen some types of crime rise, including means of payment offences and also sexual offences, although they are likely to rise for a major reason that they are being reported more and more to the police and that the police have changed their way of working. The fact is that the various security authorities, including the police, have been given more money or cuts, however they are, and this has also happened to the Border Guard and the Emergency Response Centre. In my opinion, these are the kind of patches that have been given to the authorities, or have been patched up with the wounds that exist, and we have now achieved a satisfactory level of action so far. But there is no antibiotic, which means that the patient is not yet able to be cured, and that must be the strategy that will then be drawn up. It is particularly wide-ranging, it needs to be involved by different authorities, different ministries. The role of social welfare and health authorities is very important, but it must also involve organisations, associations, companies, because, for example, only a small number of people, less than 5%, do half of our criminal offences, and they are excluded, mainly men. I would say that associations, communities and organisations have a great opportunity to influence this situation. We need such so-called soft means, we also need tough ways to combat these external threats. We need intelligence legislation, but we also need adequate resources for the authorities — everyone, we talk about the Emergency Response Centre operator and all the time to the prison authorities — and that is what we need to go through in that strategy. So now it is up to us to decide what Finland's safety level will be in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u121	Mr President! Although the situation is still good on a global scale, Finland’s strong sense of security has been shaken. The Government Programme's vision "Finland is the safest country in the world to live, try and work" is at least ambitious enough. This is therefore the first internal security report. It has looked at it from the point of view of the civil servants of the Ministry of the Interior, where the role of the police, in particular, has risen to the centre of gravity — rightly so. The most important document for internal security will be to draw up an internal security strategy with implementation programmes in the autumn. To that end, a Steering Group, a Steering Group, a Secretariat and expert groups shall be set up. On the basis of the strategy's priorities, key experts from the internal security point of view are involved in the preparation of the strategy from various administrative sectors, regions, municipalities, organisations and industry. The preparation takes into account a wide range of aspects and approaches. The Parliamentary Advisory Board proposed by the Centre would add to the fact that internal security has now really been raised. Internal security is a common and very wide-ranging issue. The degressive framework for internal security identified in the report is also very challenging. Therefore, the future strategy and its operational programmes will play a crucial role and will have high expectations. That is what this report is all about. During these declining resources, there is a risk of obsolescence and prioritising activities so that the stakes are absent, for example, from preventive work, from public services in rural and sparsely populated areas, and from normal border and other controls. Mr President! Despite these challenging situations, however, the government’s measures have managed to meet the unexpected challenges of time. The flood of asylum seekers has finally been well controlled, the guidelines for more effective integration have been laid down. Reforms are under way, such as intelligence legislation, the powers of the Border Guard to respond to hybrid threats, and the reform of the rescue services is also under way. And then, of course, there is this report, the first of its kind, and strategy work. This strategy work and its new ways of working would be those that I would have allowed the opposition to support here too, that is to say, the establishment of a parliamentary negotiating board in this context. This good internal security requires continuous and seamless cooperation between the authorities and the involvement of NGOs and people themselves. Security cannot be outsourced; it is the result of how society and its members operate and how security is taken into account in everyday life. Mr President! Social inequality and exclusion have traditionally been perceived as the greatest threat to internal security in our country. The difficult economic and employment situation is not making this easier, and it is therefore important that people do not lose confidence in the functioning of society or in political decision-making either. There are signs of this, however, when citizens, for example, have already taken power and responsibility into their own hands to ensure security. Improving employment as a guarantor of internal security is particularly important for young people and the long-term unemployed. It is true that the boundaries between internal and external security have become blurred. Helping the world’s conflict areas is also increasingly a guarantee of internal security. Other wars, droughts, famines and uncontrolled population growth pose a serious threat to our internal security in the form of refugee crises. The same thing is underlined by the limitless nature of cyber threats. However, I believe that Finland's values include realistic peace work, international cooperation and the search for reconciliation. There are more and more crises in the world, not directly involving nation states, but various radicalized factions. Society must also be able to respond to these new challenges, where threats to security policy have changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u122	Mr President! A report on the state of Finland’s internal security has been prepared for the first time. During the past year, our country’s security environment has changed rapidly and the Finnish people’s sense of security has deteriorated significantly. According to the latest survey of the National Defence Information Board, two thirds of the respondents feel that the future is less secure, whereas one year ago only one in two thought so. Still two out of three respondents saw an increase in insecurity in the near future. Finland already has the lowest number of police officers in the European countries relative to the population. According to the new Internal Security Report, the number of police officers will decrease in the coming year to 7,000 police officers, while the list of closures of police stations will be slightly reduced, however, several stations will be reduced. The report states that effective control will increase peace in the streets and society but will require more resources. Technology offers new opportunities but does not replace the presence of the police. The most worrying situation is in sparsely populated areas, where the police are feared that aid will come too late. One question is the allocation of police resources. The restructuring of the police was intended to reduce the administration, but it should now be pointed out whether this has actually happened. A quarter of the border guard staff has been cut in the last 25 years. It follows from the adjustment programme drawn up four years ago that the number of staff on the eastern border will be reduced by 40%. There is a need for additional funding for this, but will the number of border guards after that be sufficient? When asylum seekers started to flow from the western border last autumn, not all of them could be registered and, according to the latest data, some 2,500 people have disappeared this year. According to the C.I.P.D., there are serious threats involved. Such large-scale illegal immigration must continue to be manageable. The preface to the report states: "The diminishing resources for internal security are at odds with the increasing and more complex tasks of the safety authorities, the expectations of citizens and the rapid change in the operating environment." Officials of the Ministry of the Interior believe that the maintenance of security will become more difficult in the future in the whole country, especially in sparsely populated areas. Unlike other internal security authorities, rescue services depend mainly on the municipal operator and the funding of municipalities. For example, the provision of emergency care and patient transfer services is agreed as part of the social and regional reform. There are concerns about the rapid availability of these services in rural areas. The reform of the Health Care Act in 2010 transferred the responsibility for organising from municipalities to hospital districts, which transferred the provision of services to themselves and rescue services. According to the Sick Transport Association, several municipalities have reported a significant increase in the cost of medical transport. Due to the cost pressure, the Hospital District of Pirkanmaa, for example, has decided to reduce the readiness of the care-level unit in the northern sparsely populated area from 24 hours a day to 12 hours, i.e. half. Such measures can have fatal consequences. The cross-sectoral strategy following the report must take into account the overall security, which consists of a wide range of very different issues. Social, health and substance abuse policies that affect people’s daily lives, as well as the fight against hybrid attacks that seem distant, are factors in internal security. The new security situation is characterised by the fact that it is no longer possible to distinguish between external and internal security. Such threats include, for example, hybrid and cyber threats and an increased threat of terrorism. The arrival and return of those involved in the conflict in Finland and the increase in the number of extremists and their recruitment to radical activities raise the threat. The situation picture of Finland's internal and external security is very similar, and measures to combat identified threats are now the responsibility of the Government. Mr President! The Government Programme states that Finland is the safest country in the world to live in,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u123	Mr President! The most important task for public authorities is to ensure internal and external security. Our role as politicians is to arrange chips for it, and in my opinion we have not done very well — neither this government nor perhaps the previous ones. I believe that both the government and the opposition agree that the reduction in internal security resources is at a very bad time. Our operating environment has changed dramatically, and the threats that we considered quite theoretical a few years ago have now become quite different. The public's sense of security has deteriorated considerably and the main reasons for this are the explosion of asylum seekers and the threat of terrorism. The public is asking whether the police's resources are sufficient to deal with public security. The number of police officers has decreased for several time periods. There are still fewer police officers in Finland relative to the population than in almost any other country. In other Nordic countries, the number of police officers relative to the population has been increasing, while in Finland the trend has been decreasing. In order to have the same number of police officers as in Sweden, for example, this would mean hiring around 9600 new police officers. So I saw a neighbouring country in Sweden. You might want to think about it. According to various surveys, citizens would like more police officers to safeguard their daily lives. If and when disturbances like Sweden spread to Finland, we are in trouble. There's no reserve here. We've got cops, but when things start to happen, the amount we have is pretty quick to finish. The previous governments, in their great wisdom, decided that freedom of movement is a fine and good thing. At the same time, they decided that police and border control resources would be undermined. In other words, the budget has already been reduced in the past, while the number of criminals crossing the border has increased. However, it is good that the government is taking measures to improve the situation. Efforts are being made to improve the efficiency of criminal investigations by reducing red tape and streamlining pre-trial investigations, including through better investigation and exploitation of existing technologies. Citizens will be encouraged to move to electronic crime reporting and general surveillance will be targeted at prevention, in particular the diverse communities that repeatedly commit crimes and the threats of widespread violence. A combination of electronic communications technology and a traditional approach to security will be introduced. However, in this context it is good to remember that the home alarm, for example, is still not digitally accessible. Mr President! The police are prepared for an exceptional spring and summer season this year. It is a fact that the increased number of asylum seekers in 2015 will also increase the news of harassment, violence and sexual offences. National Defence Information published a study in 2015, according to which 75 per cent of Finns were much or somewhat concerned about the increase in the number of asylum seekers coming to Europe. It's a big number. According to the police bulletin, the number of sexual offences rose by around 13 per cent in the first half of 2016 compared with the previous year. The protection police estimate that the number of people interested in violent jihadistic activity in Finland will increase due to the situation of asylum seekers. Support and recruitment activities for terrorism may also continue to increase. Our country is surrounded by potential war criminals or otherwise vague persons who have come into existence as a result of the asylum invasion, and whose background is really unknown to everyone, even though one of the chiefs of staff has told us otherwise in public. Real cops don't have this kind of information. The reception centres employ the police, which is significantly time away from other police duties. In December 2015, the Government published an action programme under point 80 of the Asylum Policy. Now these measures must be implemented quickly. There is no time to lose, for perhaps the next flood of asylum seekers will be at our door soon. The criteria for family reunification have been tightened, the category of humanitarian protection has been removed. The Finnish Immigration Service has updated the guidelines for the adoption of the asylum decision in relation to several countries of origin, and their security situation is constantly updated. This has been a good and very necessary trend. Mr President! The internal security situation will be improved by tightening Finland’s immigration policy, by increasing police budgets in the future in a fair way and by ensuring that there are enough police officers in the field. We also need to be more transparent about crimes committed by foreigners. The interests of citizens are served by transparent and honest information. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u124	Mr President! A sense of security is a basic human need, and that is why it is so important to all of us. Citizens still feel that Finland is a safe country, and people have a high sense of security. However, the situation has changed, and it is particularly challenging to see the power of change come from many different quarters. Threats come both from outside and from within our own society. Security threats from outside society include international terrorism, increased numbers of asylum seekers, development in Russia, cyber threats, infectious diseases and environmental disasters. In our own society, for example, the increase in poverty and inequality and exclusion and their consequences pose a serious threat to security. Security and its experience are therefore a wide-ranging phenomenon, and this report deals with the issue in a narrow way, focusing on those involved in the internal affairs sector, in particular the police. As mentioned in the report, the Courts of Justice, the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the Criminal Sanctions Agency, Customs and the Social and Health Services have been excluded from the review. Issues that undermine internal security, inequality, exclusion, income differentials and unemployment have also not been addressed. Hopefully, the future internal security strategy will take this into account in a broad enough way. Mr President! It is worrying if we have to compromise the maintenance of public order and security, the safeguarding of social peace, the detection of hidden crime and the prevention of it or the control of road safety. On the other hand, the more inequality and exclusion we have, the more need for police work. Adding to this the fact that according to the report the maintenance of the level of emergency centre service will also become more difficult and the likelihood of disruptions will increase due to a reduction in the budget, the maintenance of safety will be a challenging task for our society as a whole. Deterioration of the service level of the Emergency Response Centre also complicates police work. The combined effects of all these factors can lead us to a problem-enhancing cycle that also reduces security and increases the total cost of society. The most important thing would be to develop comprehensive preventive action, since in the long term it would be the most cost-effective. This aspect I would like to see at the heart of the future internal security strategy. Mr President! Two more things. I was really concerned about Minister Orpo's comment that there is going to be a distinction between emergency care and rescue: this is the way in which emergency care is incorporated and exposed to competitive tendering. I very much hope that the government will reconsider this issue, because this solution would indeed undermine the cost-effectiveness of the entire rescue service and, in particular, the situation in sparsely populated areas would deteriorate due, among other things, to the need for careful synergies and the loss of joint management systems. The second point that I would like to mention, or actually thank you for, is that this report has now taken very good account of this situation at the eastern border, which means that the resources to be added to control the eastern border are positive and important, because the current resources in this changed security situation are not capable of properly carrying out border controls. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u125	Mr President! When we talk about internal security, we talk about the functioning of civil society. The Government's policy of cutting down on education and basic services will increase poverty and exclusion and undermine internal security. Everything is based on the confidence that everyone is taken care of in Finland. Social peace consists of a citizen's confidence in the justice of society and discontent is channelled through elections, not radical, violent acts, as has happened on the other side of the Mediterranean. In Europe's neighbourhood, social instability and unrest are fuelled by youth unemployment, lack of education and health care, inequality and corruption. Anger is brewing and growing if citizens do not have human rights and political influence and hope for the future. People feel they've been abandoned to their own devices. None of this matters anymore. It is easy for terrorists to recruit more angry people into their ranks, and societies become radicalized. In Finland, this seems like a distant idea, but we cannot take our internal security for granted, but must be constantly taken care of, strengthening civil society and the Nordic welfare state. It is better that we are all average Finns than to polarise and divide into extremes. Mr President! Concerns about the division of citizens and internal security should also be the concern of the rich. For example, in the United States of Los Angeles, near the fine houses of Beverly Hills, there is Skid Row, one of the largest neighborhoods of the poor in the United States. There are about 7,000 homeless people living on the streets. The rich, on the other hand, have had to fence their own neighborhoods and houses, and the guards go on patrol day and night. Security has been put in place to prevent the poor from robbing the fridges of the rich. This is not a happy life for anyone. I would like to say that Finland's internal security is a much larger issue than the number of authorities, although it is also part of it, and I think it is very important to have an adequate number of police officers. However, from an internal security point of view, the government should approach the needs of ordinary people and make proposals that increase social cohesion and reduce inequalities in relation to young people, employment, housing, basic services and the strengthening of civil society. With this year’s experience of the values of Sipilä bourgeois government, I have the feeling that after this government in Finland there will be more and more human ruins, poor, oppressed and left on the outer edges of society. It seems that the government does not want to identify with the poor person’s position and worry about justice and adequate livelihoods. This undermines our internal security. The government is constantly prioritising the market over people and civil society, forgetting both human and moral, focusing unduly only on economic results and making, in the words of Minister Stubb, an historic coalition policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u126	Mr President! The Government's report on Finland's internal security comes at a very good time, at a time when Europe is in a state of turmoil and the sense of security that citizens in Finland have had and people in Europe have also had. Adding to this the difficult economic situation in Europe and especially in Finland has created the kind of synergy that is now being clarified in this report for Finland. It may be said that it is very good that this situation is now being examined in peace, and then we will come to conclusions and measures with the funds available. What is important, however, is that we do this work in peace, and the Government report gives it an excellent basis. External events have substantially changed the security situation in Finland. The events in the Mediterranean have been shocking in recent years: in Syria, a direct active war, a full-scale war, or in Libya, a kind of precarious uprising has been going on for a long time and does not seem to be calming down to this day. Similarly, there is a continuing war situation in the Iraqi region, which leads to the flow of refugees still moving strongly towards Europe. This requires cooperation on the European Union's standards in order to control this flow of refugees. At the same time, it also affects Finland's internal security, as we have seen during the last winter. There is a threat of terrorism in Europe and also in Finland every day, and under no circumstances should this situation be underestimated. It is important that we ourselves go through our own affairs carefully and prepare ourselves for the security of our citizens in all circumstances. The role of the police in internal security is always emphasised and very important. It is important that the police have visibility throughout the country. The recent debate on the location of police stations in Finland has been completed with regard to locations. It is good that long distances have also been taken into account. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister for the Interior, Mr Orpo, has taken this issue seriously and has taken these different demands from different regions into account. It is true that we have little money at the moment, but what we have must be used wisely and seek a good solution in the interests of Finland as a whole. As far as police work is concerned, drug investigation is one of the things that needs to be handled better. The lives of very many young people are being destroyed by drugs, and we must continue to invest in this. Organised crime raises its head in different forms around Finland, and various organised crime groups constantly arrive in Finland. Similarly, cyber threats are a huge risk for us. The police and the authorities must also prepare themselves for this and be careful that attacks through computer networks do not cause much harm to Finland, or even fatal. It is also important that we get information from our partners and obtain that information in advance so that we can prepare ourselves for the potential threats that threaten us. Preparations for intelligence laws are currently under way in the Ministry, and the intention is that this preparatory work will be completed in the course of this year with some degree of good cooperation. Of course, it requires the Defence Forces and then also legal experts when the intelligence laws are being prepared, when it is quite a matter of the fundamental rights of the people, which are guaranteed by the Constitution. The task of the Border Guard is demanding in Finland at the moment. It is important that Parliament secures sufficient resources for the Border Guard and, above all, that, when we live here at the Schengen external border, we are able to secure these borders in Finland so that there is a sufficient number of border guards and the technical equipment is also in order. There are certainly challenges in that area, but it is just as important that we have an external framework in place that the relations with our neighbours are maintained and that we can count on cooperation between the authorities and the Finnish authorities to be maintained on the other side as well. After all, we have the last good example of an agreement to close the traffic at the northern international border crossing points for six months at the border crossing points of Raja-Joosep and Salla. Finally, Mr President, one comment that it is important for security and the security situation and stability in Finland that we should also be able to deal with this big issue, i.e. the economic situation in Finland. When people do well financially and mentally, life will then be much safer and more comfortable than if the economic situation continues to deteriorate and the economic crisis becomes worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u127	Mr President! This report on internal security, published today by the Government, has been a good review of the internal situation, resources and ideas of various agencies and institutions. One of the most timely aspects of our internal security is this situation of asylum. Just under 32,500 asylum seekers arrived in Finland last year, which is about ten times as many as in previous years. In this situation, we must also be prepared for a new wave for us in Europe, particularly because of the situation in southern Europe and also because of the situation in Turkey. The integration of those who have already applied for asylum from us is one of the most important things, which must be done to ensure that internal security is not jeopardised as a result. It is also a very big challenge for municipalities. Unfortunately, however, these asylum seekers, once they have received a residence permit, are free to move within the country. So far it has been shown that they want to move to the largest centres, which of course brings big things to those centres. The most important actors in internal security are the police, and there has been a debate here today on police resources, police numbers. The government has stated that the number of police officers will be at least 7,000 in the field, plus then on the protection police. The fact that we ended up with this 7,000 means that we must not only increase the attractiveness of police training but also increase the attractiveness of police training, but also that we have a sufficiently high-quality number of applicants for police training. With regard to topical issues, terrorism and the fight against it are also issues on which we must anticipate. And every time there have been terrorist acts in Europe recently, it has also increased our readiness and has therefore also taken up work. Exclusion is one of the major problems of internal security on domestic issues. Unemployment and the economic situation of people are a very vulnerable road to exclusion, and then it becomes a problem. Many speakers have also discussed this situation on the eastern border, and I would like to stress the importance of good relations with Russia and cooperation. These key figures have also been collected for that internal security report. At the moment, two thirds of the citizens see that insecurity is increasing in the future. This is also illustrated by the fact that the number of unsolved crimes is on the increase and that, as well as the increase in police activity by more than a minute, there are clear indications that these resources and the fight against insecurity must be taken into account. The investigation periods have also increased in part. We have a very effective unit in the protection police. With a budget of over EUR 20 million, the protection police are working very effectively, comparing it with any country in Europe. In the field of internal security, cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard is extremely important. Fire and rescue services are closely linked to internal security, where this importance of volunteering in the implementation of the service is important. The rescue services are part of the regional reform and aim to limit the increase in costs to less than 1% per year. In the past, the Ministry of the Interior has stated that decision-making would take place in these five special areas of responsibility where university hospitals operate. However, I consider this to be something that should be reconsidered, because the payers are in the provinces and then the decision-making would then be in these five regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u128	Mr President! The first internal security report has been on the table this day, and I personally feel that this is perhaps the most necessary report to be made during this government term. This will be well described by cooperation between Finnish authorities, how it works and how it may still need to be made more effective. In my own speech, I would particularly like to raise the issue of voluntary fire services or the operation of emergency services in general. Contract fire brigades in Finland perform a significant number of first response tasks, which is why I feel that this issue is particularly important. I consider the first internal security report published to be well written. It makes clear to citizens and decision-makers how the state of internal security can be weakened if sufficient resources for internal security are not provided. This report will probably not remain dusty in the archives, but the good work done will be used to make informed decisions. However, I am concerned about the evolution of the cost level of the rescue services as described in the report. If such a development takes place, I fear that it will collapse the rescue service. Emergency services are the largest operator of internal security in terms of personnel. Its operational rescue operations are carried out by rescue personnel, consisting of approximately 4,000 professionals and 13400 contract firefighters. This staff has so far been able to organise rescue services throughout the country. According to studies, the rescue services enjoy the highest level of public confidence despite the cost-effectiveness of the safety authorities. The Internal Security Report has been prepared in parallel with the Foreign and Security Policy and Defence Report. When the final report is completed, we will see the full picture of the reports and what society wants to invest in. If there is insufficient internal security in Finland and the public feels unsafe, what is the basis for our being, then the question should be asked. Now some statistics on Finnish fire brigade operations. There are 709 contract fire brigades operating in Finland, which are divided into 491 association fire brigades, i.e. vpk and 200 personal contract fire brigades, i.e. hspk. We also have 18 contract fire brigades. A total of about 13400 emergency fire brigades operate in these areas. Last year, the fire truck went on an alert mission from the fire department station 75294 times. This is the exact statistics. In 5 minutes from the alarm, around-the-clock society uses 1,400 fire brigades in accordance with the fire department agreement. In half an hour, the number of staff has already increased to over 3,000. We are therefore talking about a very important action. Of the contract fire brigades, 380 perform first response tasks, and when professional fire brigades are added to this, approximately 500 fire brigades operate first response in Finland. It is often up to the rescue services how this first response activity works in the whole country. All in all, these 33,000 fire brigades, of which the 13400 are eligible, create a safety reserve for Finnish society that is good for use in various fire brigade associations, hobby and preparedness departments, among other things. I would like to express my great appreciation and support for this kind of activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u129	Mr President! In the face of threats to internal security, Finns are most concerned about the employment situation. This is how the Finnish National Defence Information Planning Board's survey on what kind of issues cause insecurity in Finns. At the top of the list, the outlook for the European economy and global warming also rose. The Internal Security Report does not comment on any of these. It focuses on the traditional concept of security: police, rescue and Border Guard. However, economic security cannot be separated from this traditional security. The drastic cuts made by the government from the weakest are also a cause for concern from the point of view of public security. We know that exclusion is linked to the path of crime and radicalisation of the world of thought. The fear of losing a job can't be eliminated by the police. It will be eliminated by tackling unemployment and creating new jobs, by securing a decent livelihood for everyone to ensure that no one falls off the sled. Mr President! Immigration, which has increased considerably in recent years, has increased the feeling of insecurity, which is also reflected in the survey of the National Defence Information Board. People’s concerns are not dispelled by racist street patrols walking the streets of cities. They do not increase safety — on the contrary, they increase insecurity. We don't need street patrols. Ensuring the safety of citizens is a matter for the police. Finns trust the police, and that must continue to be the case. More money is needed to increase the number of police officers in the field work. We need more local police activity. Knowledge of cultural backgrounds and the recognition of intimate partner violence are increasingly important in police work. In recruiting police officers, the proportion of immigrants and women must be increased. Good integration and the integration of immigrants into the full membership of our society is key to managing the increased immigration situation. Tightening up family reunification is a bad security policy. Young asylum seekers alone are at the greatest risk of radicalisation. Mr President! The growing challenge in security is how to ensure the safety of people in sparsely populated areas. Despite well-functioning cooperation between the police, the rescue services and the Border Guard, it often takes too long to get help. This challenge has been met by various projects. For example, the Finnish Rescue Association (SPEK) has started the Village Safety project. There is an EU-funded project in North Karelia entitled "Safety for the countryside". The aim of the projects is to increase village safety expertise and operational capacity in case of various disturbances. There's no way they're shutting down fires with security projects. However, good experience has been gained in terms of increased sense of security, prevention of disturbances and the readiness of the villagers to take responsibility. While the villagers are waiting for help to arrive, they will be able to use time for measures that will help the authorities to take immediate action when they arrive. The operating models developed in the projects must be integrated into permanent operations in the future. Mr President! In the next few years, the number of police officers will be reduced due to retirement in any case, because even if money is now being added to the police, we will not have enough trained police officers. As the number of working hand pairs decreases, it is important to consider what the remaining ones are doing. When prioritizing, the temptation may be great to reduce the amount of police work that is not visible from the outside. However, we must remember that important work is also being done from the office, for example on environmental and economic crime and the fight against the informal economy. According to the report, preventive work and the fight against hidden crime are also ready to be cut. These cuts would be short-sighted for the environment and fairness, but would also further increase the pressure on the state administration. Revenues from environmental and economic crime and the informal economy are higher than expenditure and, just as in all other areas, prevention in the fight against crime is also much cheaper over time. So, in security matters too, let us remember a broad mind and a far - reaching look.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u130	Mr President! It is clear that the main threat to Finland’s internal security is the progress of Islamisation. In every Western country, it has meant an increase in crime and an increase in and sharper confrontation between the population and, of course, increasing taxes and payments to cover the support of the wingers. Even now the government has to add 230 million more money to these, and at the same time agriculture is driven down and bankruptcies come, so there will be no money, because this has become like a miracle of humanism, whatever. In Sweden, police are resigning by force, and I am not surprised at all when immigrant gangs begin to take over entire districts and control them with fear and violence. The government's game in those places is over. There are already dozens of nogo areas in Sweden. As a result, all those capable of nailing move to so-called better areas, as well as the fact that ordinary people are beginning to fear and therefore to be equipped: to acquire safety devices, to protect homes and other property with alarm systems, to purchase private security services, to change everyday routines, such as routes, and perhaps even dress. All of this is done to maximise security. Personally, I do not think it is at all bad for groups like the warriors of Odin. These guarantee security, because the police are unable to do so at the moment. If and when their presence prevents one crime and, above all, increases the sense of security for citizens, they have succeeded. Mr President! Thousands of asylum tourists are missing in Finland. According to the press reports, the Home Secretary expects them to have left the country. I find his assumption too optimistic. I believe that in Finland there are at least hundreds but probably thousands of young men in combat condition in the Middle East who have a long and probably bloody history. A lot of people will remember a Iraqi gentleman whose social media account found some very brutal pictures. The Pirkanmaa District Court condemned this Iraqi wanted war criminal as a condition. I wonder where this person is now. What happened to his asylum application? Mr President! I repeat what I say in the debate: Furthermore, in view of this demographic structure, how do we integrate this Islamic group into our country? There are 155 municipalities with young men and gender imbalances in the same way as in China. Well, here in our midst they start putting more of these men, and there will be these descendants of Ismail who have always fought one another, and there will never be peace. It's an impossible equation. The future will be very dark if this continues. I would say to this — and I have mentioned it once before — that the limits and the best insulation for Islamisation is barbed wire. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u131	Mr President! Internal security is not only the work and resources of the police, the Border Guard, the rescue services and other security authorities, but also, perhaps, it is possible to say that, above all, there is a sense of security among the citizens. Many statistics show that crime in itself has decreased, apart from a few offences, but, at the same time, the sense of insecurity among citizens has increased in many respects, and even more insecurity is known where, in fact, there is little crime. This is partly influenced by the limited view of the police and other authorities in the street view. It may also be noted that in a few areas, the lack of police force can lead, and sometimes even has, to a failure to report crimes, given that the police do not show up. This is not the kind of development we should allow. Mr President! In the Government negotiations, internal security and justice were the so-called stone-foot task force. I think that this term is quite appropriate in the sense that external and internal security are the cornerstones of society. We have noticed that in countries where external or internal security is being disrupted, all the functions of society are being undermined. These often happen at the same time: countries with wars have neither external nor internal security. When society is unable to maintain security for its citizens, it is not possible to take care of the well-being of its citizens. It can therefore be said that the primary task of modern society is to maintain both external and internal security. Once the basics are in order and sufficient resources are made available, we can also invest in the very important safety of everyday life. I'm sure each of us wants to provide a safe everyday life for both children and all Finns. We are talking about a broad package, preventive work, criminal policy, alcohol policy, justice policy and so on. You can say that robbers must be caught, crimes investigated and punished according to the law. A fair trial and other fundamental pillars of the rule of law are also part of the whole of our security. It is important to note that the functioning of the rule of law and in this respect, for example, in Finland, very low levels of corruption are key factors that also affect citizens' sense of security, how they have experienced how safe this country is to live and live in. Mr President! It is an important task for us as decision-makers to keep the basics of security in the condition that we can focus on this matter of improving the everyday security and improving the well-being of our citizens, which I mentioned above. In this case, safety can also be a competitive asset for us both in tourism and in all other industries. I can tell you that if we think about the current very strong development of tourism in Finland and especially in northern Finland — you can say that the boom — surely one of the reasons is that we have a fine, unique nature, clean, you can say that measuredly the cleanest air in Europe, but we are also a country where everything works and where it is safe to come. This is certainly one of the key factors that will also make it possible for our tourism to develop in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u132	Mr President! Recent discussions have highlighted concerns about the adequacy and level of public authority resources in the future. There is a situation in our country where the sustainability of internal security is being tested from the point of view of both citizens and the police. In Finland, the authorities are trusted, and the government wants to uphold this tradition because trust strengthens security. However, it is realistic to say that the safety of the police will be reduced as patrols are reduced and demanding tasks will continue to be carried out by smaller groups, often without access to backup. This may lead to increased use of force and thereby to a loss of confidence in the police. The field of police work is expanding and becoming more complex. Asylum seekers increase the pressure on police resources and overall coping. This message comes from the field very strong. It is also alarming that more and more mail comes from citizens who say they fear for themselves, their families or their loved ones. A further reduction in the number of police officers fits badly in this equation. As stated in the Internal Security Report before us, the reduction in the number of police officers will undoubtedly lead to the failure to carry out key police tasks and to a reduction in police visibility in public places. It should be noted, however, that the number of policemen has been falling for more than one financial period. This is not just about the adjustments made by this government, but also over the past few years the appropriations have fallen. Mr President! We already know that, for example, criminal investigation periods and judicial processes have increased further. And how will it be possible to maintain security in sparsely populated areas in the future, where the operating times are already unacceptablely long in some places? According to the messages of today's Southern Finland, the average processing time in Häme police is now 135 days. The most difficult cases can last for years. There's about a hundred cases over a year and a half old. Smaller cases may not be investigated at all, because police resources are simply not enough. Superintendent Martti Hirvonen said in the interview that prioritising must be done. Mr President! Ensuring legal certainty and basic security for citizens must be at the heart of the construction of Finland's future. It should also be borne in mind that internal security is an important competitive factor for companies to consider their geographical location. The Government aims to respond to the security challenges of internal security, inter alia by developing public administration activities in all administrative sectors with a stronger focus on common goals. Mr President! As Mr Mattila said in his speech, Finland's direction and direction must be kept clear if we want to keep Finland as one of the safest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u133	Mr President! The Government's Internal Security Report under discussion, among other things, states that the threat of terrorism has increased in Finland. According to the report, the threat of terrorism is raised by the arrival of people in conflict zones in Finland and the increase in the number of people interested in extremist movements. Large-scale illegal entry has also been mentioned in the report as a major cause of the change in the security environment. The most significant change in internal security is undoubtedly linked to the migration crisis. Last year a record number of over 32,000 asylum seekers arrived in Finland, for which new reception centres were set up at a rapid pace during last autumn. During 2015 and early 2016, as many as 2,500 asylum seekers have disappeared from reception centres. A significant number of missing asylum seekers are likely to have stayed in Finland, although some of them are expected to have left the country. In the other week, Sanna Palo, head of the intelligence department of the Central Criminal Police, estimated that there were serious risks for asylum seekers who left reception centres without the knowledge of the authorities. According to the fire, they are particularly related to persons who have come to Finland with false identity papers or completely without papers. On the other hand, Päivi Nergi, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, estimates that a little over a thousand undocumented persons have already resided in Finland. True, their exact number is quite difficult to estimate. In any case, the increase in the number of undocumented persons is very significant, and the motives for missing persons from reception centres to arrive in Finland are not always known to the authorities. Among the 2,500 or so persons mentioned above, for example, there may be numerous war crimes. It is clear that reaching them and catching them is very important, and I am encouraging the Ministry of the Interior to take prompt action in this regard, and I am probably not the only Member of Parliament who thinks the same way. Mr President! As has already been said a few times here today, we cannot rest on our laurels, even though the number of asylum seekers has at least been temporarily reduced to the level before 2015. In order to improve Finland’s internal security, Parliament should in future, among other things, tighten up the legislation on terrorism, introduce return centres providing minimum services for asylum seekers who have received a negative decision, reduce the attractiveness of immigration and implement other measures already agreed by the government to tighten immigration policy. These measures also make economic sense, and their implementation is the least that future generations can rightly expect of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u134	Madam President! There are a lot of good things in this report. There are some things here that were said in that period of debatation that they do not exist here. It was said that they simply want to reduce the number of police officers — this is not the case. According to this report, there will be at least 7,000 police officers in the country. In the Government Programme, that figure was 6,500, but this report brings the figure back to 7,000 police officers, and Minister Orpo said several times that the current situation will also be stopped: the number of police officers will not fall below it. In practice, this means training new young men and women as police officers, and that is a good thing. It brings not only education but also livelihood, work and security to the people. Whether there are enough of these 400 people to train, which was mentioned earlier, remains to be seen. At the moment, the influx of asylum seekers has stopped. But if it continues in the same way next year, we do not know what will happen then. But we know that, at the moment, reception centres have been and are still potential fighting places where police are needed from time to time, and when police are required to a reception centre, then he is absent from other field work, such as domestic violence. We know that the reception centres are writhing, among other things, because asylum seekers have different backgrounds, and one major reason is that religious differences are so great. It is well known that, in fact, throughout the world, Shia and Sunni Muslims are intertwining for religious and fundamental reasons. Mr President! The problem we have at the moment is the lack of municipal seats. It tends to increase the number of interferences. The safety of citizens is a test if people are on the streets who are frustrated, unemployed, inactive. Then the situation will arise that it will only explode at some point, especially when immigrants who have been directly exposed to the population of Finland or who have been here for a long time, are also unemployed and inactive. When these encounter each other and there comes a different kind of shouting and pushing, it is an explosive place. That's what happens, I'm afraid. These are the things we should be able to deal with. We should be able to secure the courtyards, schools, schools around the schools, cities and at all. Mr President! There were fierce criticisms of street patrols and they were all called racists. That is by no means what they are. We have a lot of street patrols. For example, in Vaasa we have street patrols such as the Boots Group that make sure that if the young people have celebrated a little, they do not stay on the street, stay there for abuse or rape, but are taken to safety and survival, and then in the morning we discuss things. These are what we need. We also have parents patrolling the streets and looking after their own young people, how they are there in the city and how they spend their time. It has also calmed the image of the city and soothes all the places where it is made. In view of the fact that Finland has been a very safe country — even as the safest country in the world — it is regrettable that we are faced with fear today. It is unfortunate that we have had some bad school accidents. These aren't supposed to be here, and they shouldn't be here. Here too we should be able to pay attention. However, this cannot be guaranteed by the police alone; it needs all of us to do so. It requires mothers and fathers, it requires school and it requires social action. Creating security is not a matter for the police alone; it is a matter for the nation. We need to raise this issue and raise our own children so that they know how to live in the world and how to live in the world. It's not easy, I know, but it's always worth trying to do. Mr President! We also heard today that men have been added to the eastern border and are being added further. That is a good thing — but is it enough? President Putin's actions at Salla and Raja-Joosep border posts were welcome and good things. But this ban on crossings from citizens other than Finland, Russia and Belarus will end in October. What happens after that, no one can know about us yet. However, that is something we should be prepared for. We should drop the scales and stop saying that everything is fine. It is not all right if we have to take special measures to ensure that illegal or extra border crossings do not work. If our border guards cannot take care of this matter without the intervention of the head of another kingdom, then there is something wrong with it. Something's really wrong. These are the things we must dare to raise and look with clear eyes at where we are going and act accordingly. Mr President! In addition to these, the safety of homes is something that must be guaranteed. Unfortunately, Finland has domestic violence, especially violence against women and also violence against children. It is therefore extremely important that the Istanbul Agreement is fully implemented and implemented. The conditions and the things it has said must also be respected. We still need places for women who have experienced violence. We need shelters for mothers and children — and we also need shelters for men. In the case of intimate violence, it is good to remember that it does not stop when a wife gets shot there. It may also mean the elderly and children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u135	Mr President! We in this Chamber have had a common concern today about the inadequacy of public authority resources. The tasks are extensive but the resources are scarce, as the Minister said there. In many areas, good safety and preventive cooperation patterns have been abandoned. One of these is the school police system mentioned in the Chamber. A well-known school police officer has been an excellent school partner. The resources of all authorities, including the police, will have to be prioritised. New, more efficient policies are being sought all the time. As early as the 1990s, a supplementary police system was created. Two thousand additional police officers were trained in Finland, for whom there have been no tasks during the existence of this system. At least the failure of the system does not add to the motivation of the already trained complementary police officers. Under the current law, the Government may order additional police personnel to be supplemented by supplementary police officers only for reasons of state security or exceptional circumstances. So this resource is untapped. On another occasion, Minister Orpo has said that a legislative project will be launched this spring to outline how the system will be developed. I would have liked to have heard from the Minister how this is going. Unfortunately, I did not manage to receive a reply when the minister was here. In sparsely populated areas there are many security challenges: people are ageing, but those living in the same villages must take more responsibility for their own safety. Preventive action is of paramount importance, especially in sparsely populated rural areas, in order to avoid fires and accidents. That's where it takes you the longest to get help. The fire department usually only gets tens of miles away to put out the after - the - fire coal. The safety factor is contract fire brigades whose personnel perform the fire and rescue services on a voluntary basis and part of their secondary activities. This system should be developed and young people encouraged to be involved in this important activity for society. All means must be used to encourage younger people living in a sparsely populated area to support official work. The sweepers who are familiar with the conditions in the district heating system have been more safety-enhancing. They have traditionally looked at other factors that could cause accidents, even though this was not part of their statutory duties. I believe that a welcome innovation is to train the voluntary rescue services to support the authorities in a situation where someone is lost in the countryside. It's reindeer men who have the best local knowledge. Another similar group, where local knowledge can be found for example in the search, are hunters. When the whole reindeer husbandry area is included in the project, there is already good support for the authorities in half of Finland in the search. Mr President! In terms of internal security, a major threat is the prioritisation of tasks due to a lack of resources, where it is easy to leave the preventive work, such as the school police system mentioned above, or the tasks of the authorities in rural and sparsely populated areas. But we can all affect the safety of everyday life. Communityism, caring for fellow human beings and responsibility for their own actions must be made a stronger asset. In the countryside, the neighbor’s grandmother’s yard should be looked at while plowing her own yard, and a ride to the store is also offered to a carless neighbor. But even in cities there are many wonderful and good communities where neighbors are known, cared for and helped. The internal security of the future requires deep and committed cooperation between different authorities, communities, NGOs and industry. I think the Government’s goal is excellent: Finland’s safest country in the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u136	Madam President! I would just like to raise a few points about this huge and important report which is now in our hands. I want to talk to you about the situation of underage children. The situation of minors must be assessed before they are reinstated, for example, in Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia. We know that the Finnish Immigration Service, Migri, has recently taken the line that these countries can be considered safe enough for return. Save The Children Association immediately raised this issue. I very much agree with that organisation that, on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is necessary to assess its impact on children in all decisions relating to children. The best interests of the child must not be just a line drawn in the water, not for Finnish children but also for children seeking asylum. Hard experienced children should not be returned to conditions where they are not able to attend school or receive social and health services, shelter, care, psychosocial support. I do not think that as a civilised state we should deepen the trauma of vulnerable children and make it increasingly difficult for them to become integrated and to grow up to be healthy adults. Integration must continue to be invested in a number of different ways. In this Chamber we will soon be talking about family care, and I would therefore like to mention that underage asylum seekers and asylum-seekers need family care places in Finland. Of course, we would like to see adults from their own cultures who would like to be trained as family carers. It would be an excellent way to make these children whole. The second point, which I will make briefly at the end of my speech and which has already been raised by many others in this Chamber, is of great importance for the first response. It has indeed saved lives everywhere. In small municipalities, early response is even more important and very important. I know this from my own experience, for my own sister would have died if her first - responder son had not saved her.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u137	Mr President! According to the International Assessment Group, Finland’s long-term homelessness programme is one of the best examples in the world where the so-called housing first principle applies to long-term homelessness. This means that the homeless are first searched for a roof over their heads and then other problems are solved, and this has also been a very effective practice in eradicating crime and increasing street safety. Many of those sitting in this room have traveled the world and are able to compare the street safety of the capital region with many other European metropolises. We are of our own class, some even call us a sort of granny, and hopefully in a positive sense we will remain so. According to Feantsa, the European umbrella organisation for homelessness work, Finland is generally the only EU country in which homelessness continues to decline. But — and now it comes but — if you look at homelessness from the point of view of the capital region, the situation is no longer a good one. According to the latest assessments, the situation of homelessness is getting worse in the capital region as the population increases as people move from other parts of Finland to the capital region but also as a result of the refugee crisis. In fact, the capital region is working hard to respond to this clearly growing need for housing: For example, in my home town of Espoo, construction of new dwellings has already been accelerated. During the next ten years, as many as 31,000 dwellings will be built in Espoo. Mr President! The Helsinki Metropolitan Area is the engine of the growth of Finland as a whole, and it matters to Finland as a whole how it can be here. I would therefore like to raise this issue of homelessness and of internal security importance to this debate. Homelessness increases hopelessness, and hopelessness increases crime and anxiety. The Helsinki Metropolitan Area must also be able to be attractive to companies who may be considering settling between, for example, Tallinn, Stockholm and the Helsinki region. What matters is how we will fare here in Finland. Mr President! Although there are several ministers from the capital region in the country’s government, it does not seem to be very clear in the decision-making of the government as regards the government’s attitude to this particular role of the capital region as a locomotive for the whole country. By this I would refer, for example, to the government's social policies and the speeches on how the capital region is getting into a very difficult situation in this reform. As the current preparation takes place, income transfers from the Helsinki Metropolitan Area are being exported, in addition to the former ones, to the rest of Finland as much as EUR 500 million. For example, my home city of Espoo would have to pay as much as 200 million for this, and if we look at what is currently the contribution, it is between 160 million and 200 million per year. I am sure you will understand that this is unsustainable in the long term. It is a very bad thing for the internal security of the whole country if the capital region is deprived of its own responsibility for its own internal security, and this is what will happen if the capital region and its people are made to pay for the government's social welfare reform. This will be seen not only in increasing homelessness but in securing all services. The lack of services also contributes to the feeling of insecurity. Mr President! I hope that the government will hear the distress of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and at the end of the game, it will make a social decision that will not put the people of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in a worse position than the rest of Finland. It is, to the greatest extent, a question of internal security and the future of the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u138	The reply was requested by Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u139	Mr President! I note that the previous representative's speech suggested that the government had already made a decision on the financing of the social security system and the system of tax compensation — this is not the case. If there have been calculations in the public domain, they have not been confirmed by the government. But I agree that the tax compensation system should not be tightened, but that the capital region needs its resources. More and more people will live here in the future, and at the moment that income compensation system is not fair. But with these calculations and preparation work is being done, and these solutions have not been made. That is what I wanted to say: there will be no false impression of this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u140	Mr President! Mr. Sarkomaa may not have heard my final confession. He is the decision-maker of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area itself, and I very much appreciate his contribution to getting control of this whole entity so that it benefits the whole region and Finland in the final games. At that end, I said, Mr President, that I hope that the government will hear the distress of the capital region and that, at the end of the game, it will make a social decision that does not put people in the capital region in a worse position than others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u141	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u142	Madam President! Today we had a lively and constructive debate on internal security. It is a pleasure to note that everyone who spoke in the Chamber was concerned about the number of policemen. There are too few of us," said the police in their own demonstration in November 2014. According to the planned framework, only about 6,500 police officers would be present at the end of the reign. The money planned for such a number of people for the spending limits period is sufficient. In his speech today, Minister Orpo said on several occasions that there is a minimum of 7,000 person-years of police work, and with less police we will not get along. I understand that in an extremely short time in economic terms we must save money. Internal security, however, is a legal virtue that can no longer be compromised. I interpret Minister Orpo's speech to the effect that the government is quietly increasing police funding so much that we are able to pay at least 7,000 to the police. We are talking about an additional allocation of about EUR 20 million. This is something to be noted and to be pleased that we are finally able to halt the decline in police posts. I still believe and trust the Finnish police and that the police will be able to cope with their current tasks. If, for any reason, tasks increase, the resources of the police must be increased as necessary. Today we are dealing with the Internal Security Report and, on the basis of this report, we are starting to draw up a strategy. Madam President, I trust that the strategy will be based on at least 7,000 police contributions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u143	Madam President! I would like to thank the Government for this report. A sense of security is something that is certainly not to be underestimated. The basics of security in a balanced society must be in order. Indeed, Finland is one of the safest countries in the world with many indicators, where there are of course many historical factors behind it. Safety is really a feeling; it is also an emotional issue in many respects. Security is created through many structures that promote an equal society. Security is created through internal security services, but it is also created through comprehensive care and care services. The feeling that if I get sick but have a chance to get treatment soon creates security. It is very important that emergency care services are available to people throughout the country. I share these thanks for what has been said here about our fire brigade system. It is very important that we also have emergency response services in sparsely populated rural areas, which create a good opportunity to respond to sudden illnesses even if the ambulance is further away. For example, in my own region, there are very good first - respond services in every church village, even if the ambulance is not located there. These services are actually made possible by volunteers, voluntary fire brigades, contract fire brigades, and it is a system that deserves a great deal of gratitude and that we must continue to develop. It is also a very cost-effective solution and creates this desired sense of security. Security is also a very central economic issue. International companies, international investors may appreciate a balanced society where little crime is committed and where individual protection is in place. In order to maintain order, much of what has been said today, the number of police officers is obviously central to this when we think of Finland as the operating environment. I am concerned about the availability of police services, and I welcome the good progress that has been made in previous speeches, however, with regard to appropriations. However, in my own region of the north, Central Finland, for example, has relatively good police services available, and a large area is operated there. At times, however, the police may be far away in case of distress. The well-functioning services themselves deserve commendation, but further development is needed and we can no longer compromise on the resources of the police. Violent crimes and their perpetrators are one of the key sources of insecurity in our country. Violence is often related to mental health problems. However, it can also be such a damaging means of survival that have been learned from home or socialised in other areas of growth and habitat. As a teacher, I therefore consider the role of school and education services to be important in preventing violent crime. Good educational — student interaction and proper role models and messages can be used to eradicate such harmful, even violent, idealistic behaviours that may occur among children and young people, wherever they come from. For this reason, it is very important that we in schools and education services take a broader view of violence and seek to demonstrate, through good faith, the superiority and desirability of the right kind of behaviour. Madam President! Safety is a wide range of measures and public services that have been addressed in this report, above all through these internal security services. We also need to remember that we also create a sense of security through our own speeches and actions, and that is why we need to identify threats and find the right measures to maintain a sense of security and reduce insecurity in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u144	Madam President! In this Chamber, we can do things that improve security. We can make laws that guarantee the police the opportunity to act on various issues. At the moment, this may not always be the case. Just doubt is not enough to be able to go on a strict investigation. We have a strong individual’s protection, home peace protection, telephone secrecy, and in some places it may turn a little against it. Although we know something is happening, we have no right to go into it until something happens. These are things that you should look at well with. Yet we must be very careful not to slip into the police state. That is not what any of us want, but the conditions of action must still be guaranteed to the police in all situations and especially in this time of the world, where we are now living, when we cannot know what is happening, when and where is going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u145	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u146	Mr President! Indeed, there is a legislative proposal on the farm-farmer relief service, and I would like to say that this bill is to be welcomed. Indeed, the purpose of this is to place farmers in an equal position with regard to the duration of the invalidity allowance, irrespective of the social security system in which loss of earnings caused by invalidity is compensated for in the event of accidents and road accidents. This proposal reduces the number of applications required of farmers, i.e. this is the government's standard, and this is a very good bill, since this will then make it easier for farmers to live. And the best thing, of course, is that this proposal has no financial impact. We are going through this carefully in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u147	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u148	Madam President! Finland’s demographic structure is undergoing a major change. In Finland in the 2020s, an increasing proportion of Finns are elderly. Most of them wish to live at home or in a homelike way for as long as possible. This wish is now being made possible by the government's top project and related legislative proposals. The aim of the amendments is to support the survival of family carers and family carers. When the nurses are well, the nurses are well too. The need for other care of the person being treated can be significantly delayed by supporting the care of the nurses. A large amount of additional funding has been earmarked for the development of informal care and family care, reaching a maximum of nearly EUR 100 million per year from 2018. Mr President! Currently, around 4.5% of people over 75 are in informal care. The share has remained the same in recent years, although the national target has been to increase it to up to 6 to 7%. The present measures are expected to increase the share of carers. In 2020, the share of informal care is estimated to be around 5%, and although the increase is moderate, the quantitative change is significant. It is estimated that some 4500 new family carers will be made available as a result of these measures. At the heart of this reform is the development of a free system for carers. Currently, approximately 15% of family carers are not at all covered by statutory free law. With the reform, all family carers would be entitled to at least two free days a month. This will, for example, improve the position of family carers who care for their own child, who may not have had the opportunity to resign from the burden of care. The right to three days off is maintained under the same conditions as it is today for family carers whose nursing work is 24 hours a day and continuously binding. The main problem with the free carers is that it is estimated that almost half of the carers are unable or unwilling to take advantage of their right to leave. The reason has often been that the alternatives offered by the municipality have been considered to be quite one-sided and there has been more frequent provision of institutional care or care in service housing units and, for example, only a few people have been offered home substitute care. But many people who are being treated do not want to go to foster care outside the home. For those with memory disorders, for example, it is difficult. In order to remedy this situation, it is therefore primarily necessary to develop the operating methods of the municipalities. This is first and foremost the aim of key projects, where the diversification of foster care is one of the cornerstones of the leading project for older people. In the context of the implementation of the legislative changes, the expansion of the use of short-term family care is also central to the provision of free-time care for carers. Implementation guidance will pay attention to assignment-related foster care, where a substitute nurse could be, for example, close to the person being treated, a relative or an acquaintance who could come to the home of the person being cared for for for the time being. It is great that this reform will also bring family carers' training, training, well-being and health checks to the level of the law. The well-being and health checks of carers are particularly important for family carers who are not in occupational health care. This can prevent risk factors from being addressed. Mr President! It is estimated that there are currently around 60,000 persons caring for their family or family members who would meet the criteria required by the law on informal care support. About 43,000 of them have made that deal. Some of them are without agreement of their own accord, partly because the criteria of the municipalities for concluding the contract are strict and the funds have to be allocated to more demanding situations. Municipalities can support persons caring for their relatives or relatives without a family care contract by means of services in accordance with the Social Welfare Act. It is now proposed that the Social Welfare Act be clarified so that the municipality can provide daily binding care and care for the person giving care to his/her family or family members on a voluntary basis. The municipality would have the same means of providing free-time foster care as in support of informal care, and free-time services would be subject to a customer charge on the same basis as in support of informal care. I consider these two legislative proposals to be excellent. Now, once and for all, we are investing in the survival of family carers and family carers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u149	Mr President! In-house care is a very valuable but often very binding and heavy work to deal with loved ones. This proposal for support for informal care, which is now in the referral debate, is an important step forward. It aims to strengthen family care for all ages. It was indeed essential for the assembly to take clear steps forward in the development of informal care along the road outlined by the National Family Care Programme, and these steps are now being taken in this proposal. It was important that, in a very difficult economic situation, in a situation where major large cuts are made in almost every administrative sector, real real euros are invested in the ability of family carers and in the development of informal care. This is important because in the future more and more people will be caring for their sick or otherwise needy loved ones. Support for family carers is a human necessity, but it is also a profitable investment for society. A significant investment in informal care was already agreed in the Government negotiations, i.e. EUR 75 million per year has been earmarked for the development of the family carers' and family carers' free system. This bill does indeed increase the right of family carers to leave, and there will be training and further training for family carers as well as health and well-being checks if necessary, as stated in the bill. And what is very important is the amendment which strengthens the right to freedom of residence for persons who are in practice family carers without having an informal care agreement. This is indeed an important proposal, and all these proposals will improve the ability and ability of carers to take better care of their care, i.e. this proposal will improve the daily lives of families and the quality of family care. Currently, about 15% of carers do not take their days off at all. Of course, statistics are still inaccurate, but I have at least received these figures for myself, and we in this House know that the important part of this proposal is to bring flexibility to free use. The family carers have hoped that the day off can also be used less than a day, i.e. in small pieces, that it must be flexible so that it serves the needs of the carer and the person to be cared for, the whole. According to this bill, the municipality is obliged to organise training and training for family carers if necessary. Traditionally, this training and training have been provided by organisations, and it is important that this whole organisation — what this means when it is recorded in the law, what this means to organisations — is carefully reviewed by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and also what these health checks mean when this is now, of course, the first time recorded in legislation. There have been municipal guidelines for this in the past. Hopefully, this will then strengthen the fact that family carers are subject to these preventive health and well-being checks in the municipalities. At least in my own hometown, these have so far been electronic, self-care checks, and I hope that we will then be able to get people to meet a family carer as well. Hopefully, the forthcoming social welfare reform will also strengthen the basic health care system so that family carers and carers can be treated in good time. Mr President! With regard to the financial implications, the purpose of this proposal is to support the reform of the service structure and also to make it more home care-oriented throughout the service structure and to improve the quality of care. By supporting family carers’ ability to cope, we can delay the need for other out-of-home care and thereby significantly reduce the costs of municipalities. As part of this preparation, it has been estimated that increasing family and family care would reduce the costs of municipalities by around EUR 220 million by 2020. These are, of course, estimates, but the direction is the right one, because we are still lagging behind what we would have the number of family carers in Finnish society. In addition to these roses, I would like to say a little bit about them. Indeed, I note that in the government negotiations we stated that the aim of this is to develop family care for all ages, but this bill lacks an assessment of the impact of children, and I find it regrettable because the government has specifically promised to proceed with this assessment of the impact on children, and these impact assessments are missing both from this family care support package and from this family care package, and I would like to say that there are many children of different ages, of different needs, whose rights and well-being are now being proposed, and these have a significant impact. Finally, when we talk about parental leave, for example, that is a situation in which a child is separated from his or her parent, and this is particularly a point that the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has stated that in that situation these child effects should be assessed. And I would add that, in the strategic programme of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government, we have stated that the Finland of Solutions programme has stated that an assessment of the impact of children and families will be introduced, and I believe that this package of laws, if anything had been such that these effects should have been assessed. But we will return to this in committee work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u150	Mr President! Finns are one of the most hardworking family carers in Europe. According to the National Family Care Development Programme, up to 1.25 million people are caring for their relatives or loved ones. This is what Kela's researcher Sari Kehusmaa says in his doctoral thesis. The Government Programme aims to develop family care for all ages, especially for the elderly. An order agreement between the municipality and the carer will be drawn up on the organisation of informal care, which will be accompanied by a care and service plan. Support for informal care is a whole of the necessary services to be provided to the care provider, as well as the care fee, free and support services to the care provider. Mr President! Different collective agreements apply in working life, which determine, among other things, the length of breaks or the maximum number of weekly jobs. Family care work is often 24/7 work without statutory coffee or food breaks. In addition, the carer does not have any fatigue tachographs that would determine whether to take rest breaks. The rest breaks are held when they occur to fit the day rhythms being treated. The carer may not even notice his own burnout, as often the needs of the person being cared for are a priority. The family carer’s social relations can also be reduced and can easily be excluded from the rest of society. An older lady once told me that she was a prisoner in her own home, a caring marriage mate when she didn’t want her wife to go just outside the home. In order to prevent the fatigue and marginalisation of the carer, the proposal under discussion adds to the law the obligation for municipalities to organise training and training for the carer, as well as welfare and health checks, where necessary. This is a very welcome reform. The reform takes forward both the National Family Care Development Programme (KOHO) and the proposals of the Working Group on the Development of Family Care Legislation. Additional funding has been provided for the development of informal and family care in the Government Programme, which is very significant. Mr President! We are now dealing with a law extending the right of family carers to freedom in such a way that all family carers who have entered into a family care agreement are entitled to leave for at least two days per calendar month. Family carers who are tied to treatment continuously or with minor interruptions 24 hours a day or continuously on a daily basis would continue to be entitled to leave for at least three days per calendar month. However, according to a study by THL, approximately half of the family carers entitled to free leave failed to keep their statutory leave. Municipal officials have estimated that 45 percent of family carers refused to be free because they did not want to leave care for others. The extension of the freedom to cover all family carers who have concluded contracts is justified in terms of the survival of family carers. Among other things, the reform would improve the position of full-time carers whose care is not the responsibility of the carer during the working hours of the carer. This would improve the coordination of informal care and paid employment. The municipality and the family carer could agree that the family carer will keep his/her leave for a period of more than 24 hours. The proposal also proposes to amend the Social Welfare Act. It is proposed to add to the law the regulation of the freedom of the person caring for his or her family or his/her family: how to organise the municipality’s freedom of residence for persons caring for his/her family or relatives who fulfil the conditions for support for informal care but who have not entered into a family care agreement. Mr President! Summer holidays are already taking place, and many are waiting for their own vacation to begin. More than 250,000 care relationships are covered by the coordination of informal care and secular work. When a co-worker stays on holiday, he can give a relaxing effect to his own holiday, but when both the person doing gainful and informal care stays on the statutory holiday of the person who is employed, the family care work continues in the normal way. Family care means responsibility for one’s own family or family. It's always on my mind. There's no vacation in the family-care relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u151	Madam President! I would like to start by saying that it is great that the government is now investing heavily in informal care. The Government will finally submit to Parliament a promised proposal to amend the Family Care Act in its Government Programme. The Government focuses mainly on the development of family carers' holidays: the proposal secures the right of all those who have signed a family carers' agreement to at least two days' leave per month. If informal care is continuous and binding, the right would continue to be three days a month. Municipalities must arrange for free-time foster care, and they are also obliged to provide informal carers with training, training and health checks if necessary. This is all very good. According to a study by THL, approximately half of the carers left the statutory leave unused. There are many reasons for this, for example: the person being treated refuses to make replacement arrangements. The carers themselves did not want to use them. Family carers have indicated that they were not satisfied with the foster care facilities offered by the municipality. Some families would have wanted the nurse to come home. The experience of days off has been negative. The municipalities have provided service vouchers covering only part of the expenses incurred during the holidays. Family care has been seen as a duty of its own. There are many different reasons and stories. I think it is important that as many family carers as possible take days off. This would support his well-being and well-being. For this reason, I strongly hope that municipalities will now go on to develop different forms of foster care, specifically for the needs of customers, family carers and those to be cared for. It is also a matter of trust that both the care provider and the family carer can count on the situation in the foster care centre or at home to be sufficiently good during the holidays. What is also important is that the care provider thrives in a foster care facility. It must not be a place of storage where the care will take time for the family carer to breathe a little and gather strength. We should develop substitute care in a way that also strengthens the well-being and fitness of the person being treated. Replacement therapy must be individual, systematic and long-term. It may be foster care provided outside the home or it may be a treatment to be taken home. Well-treated foster care can also provide crisis care if a caregiver falls ill and is unable to care for him or her. This also means that foster care must take into account individuality, the daily everyday life of the family, rhythms and practices. If you change your normal daily life, family families feel that after days off the day off the day off the day off the day will become more difficult, which is why you do not want to use the holidays provided by the law in the future. At best, family care leave supports family care as a whole, both the care provider and the family carer. That is our common goal. Mr President! I am also pleased that the government is paying attention to those family carers who have not concluded contracts with the municipality. Family care may be very binding and demanding, but for various reasons there is no contract with the municipality. In these situations, the criteria for granting freedom must be clear, so that municipalities also exercise this right under the Social Welfare Act. It is also positive that the customer fee for holidays is based on factors similar to those for those who have concluded the contract. Mr President! It is also positive that the proposal pays particular attention to the welfare and health checks of carers. This must not be just a technical follow-up. It is a question of preventive measures. If a family carer needs rehabilitation or leisure time to support his or her well-being, for example, for travelling, his/her own hobby and maintaining his/her own fitness, he/she must be assured of this in addition to his/her days off. It is important that we take care of family carers and the right to their own lives. Contractive treatment is almost always very binding. Carers tend to isolate themselves, feel lonely, and so become depressed. Studies show that the health and fitness of family carers is on average lower than that of the rest of the population. That is why special attention must be paid to this. Mr President! It is also positive that attention is paid to the training and training of carers. Family care can come as a surprise or as a matter of fact. It may not have been prepared. For example, a road accident, disability, the birth of a disabled child or a surprisingly severe illness can change your whole life in a moment. On the other hand, with ageing, there are many serious diseases, such as memory disorders, where understanding of the disease makes it easier to cope with everyday life. Training and training are very good support measures for the family carer and his family. We have good experiences with the training provided by the Family Caretakers and Close Friends Association. They are already organised in several localities in cooperation with municipalities. The feedback is very good. Mr President! As I have said, there is a lot of good in the legislative proposal. I will then return to these most critical points in my next speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u152	Madam President! This government proposal really deserves a great deal of praise. I believe that improving the support of family carers is one of the key social policy projects of this government. The family carers do a very valuable, unscrupulous job. In my own circle, I've seen this. This work deserves the sincere appreciation of all of us. We must remember that informal care also has a significant value for the national economy if we want to see it. With this government proposal and also with the budget for the amending budget, we show our appreciation for this important care work in the homes and its authors, and we also support the survival of family carers. Raising the minimum premium and guaranteeing two days off for all carers is an extremely important gesture in this situation. Madam President! Studies show that there is also informal family care in addition to those who receive the support of a carer, who do this work. In my view, such occasional assistance by neighbors, friends or close relatives must also be seen as a kind of family care that contributes to the survival and well-being of those in need of care and assistance at home. This too is likely to have significant economic impacts in addition to these welfare effects. It also deserves its own attention now in this debate, which is taking place with this government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u153	Mr President! The Act on support for informal care only entered into force from the beginning of 2006, i.e. ten years ago. Of course, informal care had taken place long before that, and the practice in different municipalities was very varied. And if you go far enough in history, the elderly and the disabled are naturally treated in homes and families. President! Now the Family Care Act and the next listed Family Care Act are being corrected in order to improve the care of elderly and disabled people at home or in domestic conditions. Today, there are about 36,000 elderly people in long-term institutional care in health centres and nursing homes and some 36,000 in various service homes, and more than 40,000 are cared for with the help of informal care. In addition, it is estimated that there are 20,000 people in family care who do not have a family care contract with the municipality. We know that sometimes the treatment of a sick and elderly person is very demanding. It is also necessary to treat a more physically healthy person with a memory disorder. In institutional care or in service housing, for example, one helper is not enough when changing a patient’s or a year’s clothing. On the other hand, many members of their families then do this work alone, and the shift does not end regularly at 4 p.m. President! This amendment to the Family Care Act aims to improve the ability of a family carer to cope. The key is the development of a family carer's day-care system. In addition, family carers’ training, education and health care are also included in the law. Family carers are not covered by occupational health care. From 2018, EUR 95 million will also be invested in informal care. The bill makes it possible for the municipality, like the family carer, to arrange holidays for those who take care of their families on a daily basis without a contract. However, the amendment to the Social Welfare Act for this purpose does not make it compulsory to organise these holidays. This is still a shortcoming, although these legislative proposals as a whole are a big and excellent change. President! On the other hand, it is good to remember that this amendment to the Family Care Act is part of the government's top project, which is as fine as the "Development of home care for the elderly and strengthening of family care for all ages". I therefore hope that further efforts will continue to be made to correct family care. For example, in this legislative reform, it has not been possible to make corrections to informal care fees, which are now of the kind that there is a really great sacrifice for a nurse, for example, to interrupt her career for a vague period of time. Mr President! I hope that, in continuing with the government's top project, efforts will also be made to look at the criteria for informal care and the levels of remuneration for those in need of different levels of care and to try to achieve a level playing field across the country. Furthermore, even after the entry into force of this Act, replacements for days of leave must be developed so that a disabled person or an elderly person does not need to be transferred to an institution because of the replacement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u154	Mr President! To become a family nurse means that many people jump into the unknown. Omaishatajuus brings a new role in which the medication and treatment of a loved one becomes a part of everyday life, such as that of professionals in the field. For a caregiver of a family with a memory disorder, the challenges of everyday life may mean learning a whole new way of thinking. When a familiar person no longer behaves in the same way as before, it requires getting used to by everyone close to him and especially by a family carer. For some people, this is natural, and they adapt naturally to the new situation. Others find it difficult and pregnant. In recent years, Finland has been deeply sworn in the name of selfishation. Unfortunately, however, the reason for this is usually savings. We know that the number of elderly people is increasing and the need for care is increasing, and it is as if self-help is desirable to find and think of this as an affordable alternative to meeting these needs. It must be said that we need to consider how much family care can be increased or how much family care can be sought, that informal care should be a life worth living for ourselves, but also for family carers. In this proposal, reforms are to be welcomed, as all improvements to the everyday life of family carers are welcome, but sometimes realism is somewhat different from what we politicians, for example, witness in our speeches. It must be remembered that at the moment many family carers are very elderly. For example, we talk a lot about welfare and health checks, and they are a positive thing because they can be used to tackle problems. In practice, however, the feedback from family carers on these health checks has been, for example, that the questions of sexuality have even been found offensive in the case of a fully tired elderly carer. That is why we need to understand that that everyday reality is often something else than what we want to see as a whole when we talk about welfare. It is much more important for a carer to get help quickly when a hand is sore when it comes to constant lifts or your own mind is so down and you feel so tired that you are constantly crying and every day seems to be just one thing to survive. We should be able to deal with these, we should be able to help them when we talk about health and welfare checks. Quick help for the right needs that family carers experience. Well, then this family nurse's day off, which is really important. It is important that we talk about it and work on it, but often, regrettably often, the feedback from the carer is that taking the day off in the family causes such chaos that the carer, in order to save himself, does not use this time off. We should therefore consider how we can create a permanent and secure fostering model that in practice responds to the needs of these family carers. For example, the fact that one and the same nurse could substitute provides security, or the fact that there is always the same place of care that a caregiver can take to can help their daily lives in some way. However, we need to see behind these top-level concepts what they mean in everyday life and try to find answers to them. Mr President! I've been thinking that when I'm doing care for the elderly, I'm familiar with the family nurse's everyday life. I know what it's like to take care of medicines, to monitor changes in your health or to help you in the morning. Conversations with family carers have made me realize that self - help is much more than caring. For many it is work 24 hours a day 7 days a week. It's a broken night's sleep, constant concern, and a feeling of inadequacy. It is a lonely evening of responsibility and care as the disease progresses. Too many family carers always put the needs to be cared for ahead of their own, even at the expense of their own survival. And yet at the same time, selfishativity is a token of love, a common moment of tenderness and joy in the midst of everyday life, and a human ministry in one's own home. In any case, a family nurse would not want to choose. Now I know that even though I know the daily life of nursing, I can't say that I know what selfishation is. Its reality is known only to family nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u155	Madam President! In my hometown of Kuusamo, we have considered ways to make family care attractive. Is money or is there another factor, such as the services provided by a family carer attractive? In autumn 2013, the City of Kuusamo decided, in the name of its own experiment, to double the fee for family members in need of 24-hour institutional care. In a situation where a person of working age and able to work assumes the responsibility for care for a person in need of care and care, and the carer performs this care work in full-time or without significant secondary tasks. This extra fee is EUR 1525 per month this year. The idea was that genuine support would replace institutional care and give the nurse a genuine choice to stay from her work to care for her loved ones. Some new agreements were concluded in the early stages, but it seems that other support, such as holidays and functional care, is more crucial. Family nurses themselves find that treatment is a service to a loved one. I think it is important to support the family carer's survival, and this is what the government's proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u156	Mr President! The law on informal care does not provide for the training, training or welfare and health checks of carers. In the training of a carer, operating models developed by organisations are used by municipalities at their discretion. The municipality may, at its discretion, organise the training itself or obtain it from other actors, such as organisations. The work of the organisations cannot be overemphasized. For example, 70 local associations of 25-year-old Family Nurses and Close Associations are doing extremely high-quality work funded mainly with the support of the Slot Machine Association and also with the financial support of some municipalities, such as the city of Lahti, which successfully cooperates with Päijät-Häme, the third largest family care association in the country. A family-care situation can come up unexpectedly and unsolicited. We can all become a family nurse or a family nurse. Searching for and obtaining information, support or advice is a major challenge. Training and further training have a significant impact on the success of this informal care situation. The work carried out by informal care associations during the various stages of the family care relationship is extremely important. Associations support, guide and advise people to cope in everyday life and provide family carers with such valuable and important peer meetings. Mr President! A lot of informal care has been developed by organisations. This training is a good example. In the future, training may be an activity carried out or purchased by the municipality or purely organisational. The activities are often financed by financial support from the Slot Machine Association. However, such a grant cannot be used for the services to be sold. If and when the training service were to be sold, it would no longer be assisted activity. Mr President! In order to ensure that organisations continue to be able to participate in experiments on key projects in family and family care, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must also pay attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u157	Madam President! Representative of the United States With Louhelainen to this importance of the role and position of organizations. Of course, as chairman of the Family Caretakers/Family Association, I have had the great opportunity and honour to follow the activities of local associations there and then also this coaching work, which is done with the support of the Slot Machine Association with great merit. Madam President! In my previous speech, I gave all my support to the government's proposal, and that is very good in that regard. Unfortunately, however, the government's proposal does not address the fundamental problem of family care that family carers, carers and their families continue to be unequal in different parts of Finland even after this law. One of the main problems with informal care is that family carers do not have legal protection provided for by law, which is why they are treated very differently across Finland. Since informal care is based on local government appropriations and is a dependent service, municipalities can themselves determine when and by what criteria they provide informal care services to the care provider and the family carer. Municipalities can decide for themselves when to conclude a informal care contract with a carer. Unfortunately, municipalities do not provide sufficient funding for informal care. When the budget is exhausted in the municipality, new informal care contracts will no longer be concluded at the end of the year, informal care contracts will be terminated and services will be reduced. The criteria for informal care will be raised in the middle of the period, which will make it more difficult to obtain a informal care contract. After raising the criteria, the municipalities state that everyone who meets the criteria laid down in the municipality will be awarded a informal care contract. This is how you make things look better. This is a sad day in the everyday life of family carers in Finland. A few years ago, a complaint was lodged with the Ombudsman by the Family Caretakers and the Family Federation. In the union, we did not accept the unilateral dismissals of municipal contracts, the cuts in services or the fact that, on the basis of the municipal criteria, a family carer who was entitled to conclude a family care contract was not made, but was denied by the municipality because the funds were exhausted. According to the Ombudsman’s interpretation, the municipalities have done the right thing legally. This is how family carers are outlaws, despite the law of informal care. He said that current legislation does not provide sufficient security for family carers and their families. Family care is based on the discretion of the municipality. That is why I deeply regret that the government did not continue with the new law on family care, initiated by Minister Huovinen, aimed at strengthening the legal protection of family carers, preventing unilateral terminations of contracts and ensuring equal status for family carers throughout the country. Mr President! In addition to the Family Care Act, other social decisions affect the well-being of family members. The Government has increased customer charges for social welfare and health services and transport services, which have contributed to hampering access to the necessary services for family care families. In the context of customer fee increases, the customer fee cap system should also have been reformed, including social services, services to be taken home, which would have ensured the availability of family and home-based services. Now many families are unable to obtain all the support services they need because they are not financially able to do so. Reconciling working life, unemployment and informal care creates huge problems in families with informal care. This is an issue that should be addressed strongly, as Finland's objective is to improve employment and employment rates. Unfortunately, the government weakened the situation by, among other things, reducing the opportunities for job alternation leave, which were mainly used by middle-aged women, a large proportion of whom also took care of their own elderly parents. Employment and informal care are also very burdenable, which should be identified and taken into account in occupational health care as well as in the health checks of family carers in the future. Mr President! In the national informal care programme, the Government's aim was to clarify the status of family carers, and it stated, among other things: "Operation would not be a service in the future, but a form of care alongside other forms of care. This management task is carried out by a family carer as defined in the contract of assignment." The goal was to strengthen and clarify the family carer’s position. Now these objectives of the KOHO, the national informal care programme, remain unfulfilled for the time being. Let us hope that in the future the following parliaments will take better account of this national programme. Mr President! As I have said, the government's proposal is a step in the right direction but inadequate. I hope that the government will take seriously this most fundamental problem, namely that the family carers are still outlaws today. They do not have sufficient legal protection. Unfortunately, the government's proposal does not go into this at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u158	Mr President! Mr Honkonen may have already left, but it must be said that charity or the help of his fellowman is not self-help. If you bring a neighbor’s can of milk and bread to the store, you can’t even talk about it the same day you talk about selfishation. Of course, the help of neighbor is important, increasingly important in this society, but when we talk about self-help, we talk much more about measures that require care and help. We all speak for family carers. We have been talking about this for years, but we are doing it very slowly. Unfortunately, this has to be said honestly. The national informal care development programme was and remains a good basis for developing informal care. That is why I too have to say that this government proposal could have gone even further if there had been a clear desire to improve the situation of family carers. I hope that in future attention will be paid to these very points, which Mr Kiljunen has already mentioned, such as the transformation of informal care into a form of care, to the strengthening of the rights of carers in general, but also to the improvement of the remuneration. In addition to the current social security system, there should also be greater flexibility in the way in which the subsidies do not cut each other and, of course, place the carer even more in a more difficult position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u159	Madam President! Of course, it is clear that not everything in a demanding world of informal care can be improved during a single government term, but it is worth noting that the present whole of the development of family care and family care is the most significant reform of social services during this government term and, in its size, the government's annual contribution to the development of informal care and family care is greater than, for example, during the previous government term, the implementation of the entire legislation on care for the elderly. I would also like to point out that, above all, support for the well-being of carers recognises and recognizes the importance of both informal care and family care in maintaining the sustainability of the entire service system. The focus of care can only be shifted to home support services if the care provider is adequately cared for. And I'm worried about family carers who don't know how to ask for services. They've got them, and we're getting calls from them, too. Municipalities need to explain more clearly the services they provide.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u160	Mr President! This bill does not deal with the taxation of the family care premium. For many low-income elderly people, informal care support may be the only support in addition to a small pension, and many people feel that the tax allowance for informal care is excessive in relation to the pregnancy of work. As Mr Salonen has rightly said, subsidies should not cut each other. I know a case here in the Helsinki region where a young student girl took care of her own mother as a family nurse, and receiving the allowance for informal care cut the student allowance, which was subsequently recovered. Mr President! Family care is not a service; it is a form of care. Family care must be seen as a wider social activity and a family carer as a partner in the social system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u161	Mr President! Let me add that, when we are living in very tight economic times and major cuts have been made, it must be said that this is a significant additional effort, additional euros in the state budget when we develop family care and family care, and I think this is very good. I also say that if anyone listens to this debate or reads these minutes, that when this law begins to be dealt with, these are, of course, minimum amounts. In many municipalities there are, of course, more family carers' holidays, more fees are paid, i.e. the municipalities make these decisions. When there is a strong will here to develop family care, I would also like to say to the representatives that it can be done in their own municipality. A particularly important observation, which I would like to say, is that, in January, when I was working on the home care of the elderly and so many family carers there, we must also work to ensure that, when the care is no longer enough at home and there is a need for a community home or other care, it must also be available. In other words, this need must also be met by our decision-makers in the municipalities and that this matter is in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u162	Mr President! I am sure here we have all given strong support to this legislative proposal which is here, but I think it is good that we are bringing this broad issue of self-help, because we will not survive without family carers, and in the future, if we do not strengthen the legislation on family care, the ultimate legislation, we may be at risk that we will no longer have people wanting to act as family carers. We still have a growing generation of people today who are committed to caring for and caring for their loved ones, but even today, when we have situations where a daughter or family lives in another place and then lives in another place, and when we consider how in the future this self-loathing or remote-housing would be handled, if we did not have the financial and legislative coordination of working life and informal care, then it may be that informal care does not achieve all those objectives — including economic objectives, structural objectives and service objectives — which perhaps in the future we would have the possibility of doing properly. The fact is, too, that now that municipalities are in a difficult economic situation and are seeking savings, so that informal care is neither legally binding nor compulsory, savings are also sought for informal care, and these fees are not increased, but, unfortunately, even in the capital region, Vantaa, among others, has finally considered that all informal care contracts are terminated and re-examined, and as a result, part of the contract carers will fall out of the service area, and thus their situation will deteriorate. These are happening in different parts of Finland at the moment, to which, of course, our Family Caretakers and Closest Association reacted strongly, and then we give our support to local organisations to enable them to respond to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u163	Mr President! A little comment: I very much agree with Mr Sarkomaa that municipal decision-makers also have a strong mandate in this matter that these things should go to the municipalities as would be important for this government's proposal and funding. This amendment of the law is intended to enter into force on 1 July this year, and after its entry into force municipal information will be provided, which means that municipal decision-makers will also play a major role in this matter, so that these potential development issues can be brought forward to the satisfaction of the family carer and the family carer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u164	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u165	Madam President! The development of elderly family care has been the focus of development in many government programmes in recent years. However, family care has not yet established its place in the service system for older people, as at the end of 2014, only slightly over 200 elderly people were treated in family care. However, at the beginning of 2016, municipalities were surveyed, and on this basis the development of this government term is now being planted in very fertile soil. Several municipalities and regions have developed or are developing guidelines for the functioning of family care for older people. In addition, as part of the main project measures, regional centres for family and family care are being set up, such as the recruitment and training of family carers. Therefore, municipalities as providers of services are in a very good position at the moment in the development of family care. The key issue of consolidating family care is, firstly, overcoming prejudice and, secondly, recruiting family carers. In this regard, action itself is the best business card, and where family care for the elderly has gained ground, prejudice has also disappeared. A good example of this is the family care village of seniors in Kaarina, where the shouting speeches during the construction phase have turned into a queue for the willing residents of the family care village. According to the findings of home nurses, the performance of elderly people in family care has improved in a few weeks: Insecurity, anxiety, and depression have decreased. Thanks to the regular basic rhythm of daily life, medication, including sleeping pills, has been reduced. Medical visits and hospital sessions have decreased. Familying, meaningful everyday life and doing business in the home have added to the experience of meaning in one’s own life. Getting attention as oneself has reduced the need for attention through what is known as the “symptom. ” The experience of family carers and their loved ones in short-term family care is also very encouraging. Last week, an elderly person interviewed in the regional news of Central Finland with short-term family care described his circumstances: "It was a lottery victory to get here." Very good feedback. Becoming a family carer requires throwing yourself around, and becoming a family carer in particular from an individual’s point of view is also a risk. In order to reduce that risk, support and incentives for family carers will be developed. The minimum family allowance will be significantly increased and the entitlement of carers to leave from at least one working day to two days per month. In addition, full-time family carers must be subject to welfare and health checks at least every two years. This is a very fundamental reform, since full-time family carers are not covered by occupational health care. As in the case of family care, the aim is to catch up at the earliest possible stage with risk factors for the placement of family carers or family care, thereby preventing any future problems. The government believes, and so do I, that with the reforms, family care will really become a part of the service system for older people in the 2020s. During the preparation process, it has been estimated that in 2020 some 1450 elderly people would be treated in family care. In addition, the development of short-term family care will play a very important role in supporting the free provision of care for both family carers and family carers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u166	Mr President! The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party welcomed the fact that the Family Care Act is also being discussed in this context as the bill on informal care support is being taken forward. There are very welcome and good proposals here. Indeed, the bill would increase the care premium and extend the nurse's right to leave and provide for the right to welfare and health checks. It is good to note here that a family carer would be entitled to these checks every two years and then to family carers if necessary. I am sure that this is a good whole which we in the committee still have to look at and assess, but I believe that these changes to the Family Care Act will improve the ability of family carers to cope and the ability to take better care of them, and in that sense they will be warmly welcome. It is indeed a good thing that this is a whole, that is to say that family care is being developed in line with informal care and that the issues mentioned above in relation to informal care, such as foster care, during the absence of a nurse, are also valid for family care. I would like to raise one point here and shed some light on this when I raised the issue of the impact assessment on children. Indeed, this proposal proposes a change in the maximum number of people to be treated in a family home, i.e. the change would return to the situation that existed before 1 April 2015, i.e. during the previous parliamentary term we made a change which is now being changed as if back. With this change, if this bill is adopted by Parliament, the number to be treated would be the same in practice both in the family home and in the professional family home. This proposal in itself is now a unanimous proposal from the government, but I think it is bad that the draft government proposal does not in any way justify this proposed amendment. This text contains only estimates of the increase in the number of family and family carers, but does not assess the number of people to be treated or assess what this means for these children to be treated. The section describing the social impact states that the change would improve the operating conditions for full-time family carers, but not assess the impact on those who are being treated. I find this regrettable and point this out because I considered it justified and still consider it justified that this package of laws should have been subject to child impact assessments on this whole, that is to say, the amendment of this provision would have taken account of its impact on children as a measure of child protection as a measure of family care. This is certainly an issue on which we will continue to debate when this well-founded and otherwise good draft law is discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u167	Madam President! Just as Mr Sarkomaa said, this relates to this whole which we have just discussed, and on the basis of the few experiences in which family care has been used in a few localities, there is good experience of it. Mr President! The goal of the Sipilä Board is to develop family care for all ages, especially for older people. Up to now, family care has been organised most in child welfare. It has also been used in mental disability care, but for the elderly, family care has still been limited. At the end of 2014, there had been 213 elderly people in family care. Family care for the elderly has been developed to some extent to support family care families in the Joensuu region, for example. All in all, I think it has been developed surprisingly little. The Family Care Act is proposed to be amended in such a way that the maximum number of people treated in a family home would be six. According to the presentation, four persons could, as a rule, be cared for in the family home at the same time as children under school age living in the same household as the carer. However, the number of people to be treated in the future could not exceed six if at least two persons living in a care centre were responsible for the care, upbringing or other care provided in a family home, one of whom would have the professional qualifications required for the sector and work. In addition, family carers' leave days would be increased to at least two days a month in situations where they have served at least 14 days as family carers under an order agreement. A clarification of the holidays will also be provided in so far as the definition of leisure time changes from weekday to day. This is good because the proposal clarifies the definition of family carers' holidays. The operating practices have been mixed in various parts of Finland at the moment. In addition, the proposal proposes an increase in the minimum contribution of the family carer to EUR 775. The full-time family carer who has concluded the contract is also entitled to health and well-being examinations every two years and other family carers who are assigned to the contract, if necessary. Mr President! There are a few things I am concerned about at the moment. First of all, whenever investment in a family home is planned, the starting point must be the need for care — not the number of people to be placed in a family home, but the need for care — and the aim must be to find the right family home for care. Family homes must have knowledge related to the care of the elderly. Not everyone is fit to be a family home keeper. Training in a family home should be improved so that everyone who takes up the family home is aware of the binding and demanding nature of the home. In addition to this, I am also concerned that when a family home is planned, the physical environment in which family care takes place must take into account the physical mobility of older people, and thus it brings demands to the physical environment, accessibility, toilet facilities, room placement, exit and so on. It cannot be that four people in the family home use a common toilet space, which causes a variety of problems in many ways, but these must also be designed from the service needs of these people. In addition, the need for services and care for the residents and the grouping and suitability of those living in the family home must also be taken into account in the family home. The burden on family carers and other residents must also be assessed. We have a variety of older people, people who need different services and care, and their mutual groupings and social networks are doing the best they can when this is also seen as a whole when planning this investment. Living and living in a family home must be safe, communal, and it should be strengthening and supporting the whole life situation. If there are residents in a family home who behave uneasyly because of their illness or for some other reason, these should also be taken into account in this investment situation. In this respect, we need to strengthen the skills in the family home, and that means that this must also be reflected in the nursing structure. Now, in the last few days, we have unfortunately heard and been informed of Valvira's mistreatment of the elderly. Among other things, the survey revealed shortcomings in the self-monitoring system and in the implementation of the reporting obligation. Among other things, the report notes that the urgency, lack of resources and lack of skills increase abuse and the associated risk. When we develop family care, these types of things must be taken into account. These must by no means be part of a family home, but on the contrary, we must create a system in which this type of activity is not acceptable in any way. We know that in a family home care is very binding and exhausting. This is why special care must be taken with regard to the survival, leisure and well-being of family carers. In addition to this, there will be no compromises on professional qualifications. Knowledge needs to be further developed. Many elderly people’s anxiety and aggressive behavior may be motivated by a strong illness, wrong medication or incompetence in the place as such. Professional skills help them to process and interpret them correctly and thus provide better conditions for comprehensive and long-term development and quality assurance of family care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u168	Mr President! Family care, especially for the elderly, is now on the lips of many and for a reason. I believe that, in addition to home care or instead of home care, older people who experience insecurity and loneliness in their homes are trying to find solutions for their everyday lives with different forms of care, and family care has been one suitable option for them. At best, family care is the best place for many people who need care. There you can enjoy domestic food, a small community, a 24-hour presence, household property, normal everyday life, and, above all, the lasting and close relationships that arise through it. All the places I have come to know have been good, and the people who do that work are also working with their hearts. But there's another side to the coin. 24/7 treatment is hard for people with memory disorders, for example, and that is why I too have been very concerned about this lack of vocational training. Indeed, it is entirely human that a different understanding is created through vocational education and training, for example, for the aggressiveness of people with memory disorders, and then, as it were, it is possible to outsource it from themselves, which, for a perfectly understandable reason, can be made more difficult by the lack of education. Mr Kiljunen also raised these premises. It is important to note that the facilities are also suitable for the care of elderly people. But this legal protection for those being treated must also be considered. Representative Kiljunen also raised this question about the abuse of Valvira in 24-hour treatment, and in no form of treatment can it be said that this should be ignored.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u169	Madam President! The Government’s proposal to amend the Family Care Act now under discussion is closely linked to the Government Programme of Prime Minister Sipilä, which aims to develop family care for all ages, especially for the elderly. Changes to the Family Care Act are proposed to increase the care premium, extend the nurse's right to leave, and introduce the right to welfare and health checks. The government proposal is a welcome improvement in the position of family carers. The amendments improve both the ability of a family carer and the ability to take better care of one’s care. I think it is particularly good and important that the government gave up the proposed change to the maximum number of people in the family home. The change proposed earlier would have resulted in the same number of people being cared for both in the family home and in the professional family home. From the point of view of care, a better result can be achieved when the number of people treated is as small as possible in the family home, at the maximum of six. Mr President! Support for family carers will be developed as part of the work of the quality group on family care. Issues to be addressed include family carers’ guidance, continuing training, peer group activities and other support services. As I have already mentioned, it is excellent that full-time family carers should be provided with welfare and health checks every two years. As has been said here, family care can be a good form of care for older people if it succeeds, but it must also be done that all the points required are well taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u170	Madam President! The Family Care Act, which entered into force last season, limited the number of family care recipients to four. This particularly weakened the ability of couples to serve as full - time family carers, for the four included, of course, family children under school age. Emergency feedback and emails were received not only in my own e-mail but also in the Family Care Association's e-mails by dozens and dozens. Now, in this new proposal for a family care law, the dimension would indeed be restored, i.e. the six families could be cared for at most if there were at least two qualified family nurses living in the care centre. But now it must be remembered that family carers do not invest in themselves any one person, but of course investors continue to be responsible for it, inspect and see how many children or young people, for example, can be placed in one family or mentally disabled or mentally ill. Six of them will still be able to work as full-time family carers. I quite agree with Mrs Kiljune that we have a huge number of children and young people being placed in the wrong places, partly because we still do not have enough family and foster parents. In other words, the palette is not ready to be found in the best interests of the child, just the right place for him to be fostered. But I hope there will be some improvement now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u171	Mr President! A number of Members have already raised the issue of this maximum number of people to be treated, that it is important to define it. And Mr Paloniemi there was a review of, among other things, the problems that have arisen with couples when the number has been changed. However, this figure also depends very much on who is looking at it from the point of view. From the nurse’s point of view, six certainly will also bring its permanence and the possibility of living with the family care, but from the point of view of the person being treated, this four could be more family-like, homely care, and now I am sure we must balance it with whose interests are more important. In its draft opinion, THL has raised quite critically a number of comments specifically on this number and has also assessed that the law that entered into force in 2015 has not been evaluated, although it would certainly have been necessary to assess it now in this context as well. According to THL, the draft law is also based on the fact that the services now go ahead. The aim is to increase care, and in the area of child protection, for example, studies show that there are still shortcomings in the supervision of family care. The rapporteur, Mr Sarkomaa, also highlighted the shortcomings in this draft law, particularly in relation to this amount, but also in relation to this impact assessment. I therefore hope that the committee will now pay careful attention to these in its further work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u172	Madam President! With regard to this amount, I would just like to say for myself that that amount is not the most relevant question in all its aspects, but that when we leave these customers — whether they are children or mentally disabled or elderly — it is about the service needs of these people and how this overall situation of people to be treated, in a way, makes it possible for each of these people to receive the best possible care and education they need. It is a completely different matter — if we have four siblings, for example — to place them all together, which may be a very good thing for all these children, for example, but if we invest children of different ages who need different services, from different homes, from different backgrounds, then this whole will look quite different. And that is why the starting point for all this family care must be that this family home enables these people to have a good environment for growth, a good environment for long-term, long-term commitment, for some people for many years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u173	Madam President! I would like to remind you that control is needed, but very many unfortunate examples have also, of course, come from the lack of control, which is now a common problem. I just want to say it out loud. Then I would really like to ask whether it is in the best interests of the child that both couples could not serve as full-time family carers, given how many traumatized children and young people have needs, how many therapy visits there are, how many visits there are to social services, meetings with biological parents and so on. Two main tasks can be shared by the family carers, but if this possibility were to be completely removed with this too small dimension, I do not think it is in the best interests of the child, when we need hearts and hands and endurance, and the couple are usually more able than that one family nurse. But of course it is important all the time to see what kind of children and young people and what kind of background they are placed in families, and that is really still the responsibility of the municipalities. I'd like to stress that one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u174	Madam President! For one thing, the child’s interests are not determined by the current situation of the family nurse. When children are placed in family care, it is usually long - term relationships, even between 10 and 18 years of age, for some of them it cuts through the whole of life. In that regard, this child’s interest cannot be determined by whether the parents can be together there or not, but by looking for such a family home for the child, which is the best and most possible for him. And then, if it is possible for both parents to be involved in that family home, it is good in some situations, but there may be a life situation, that in some circumstances one parent moves outside the family home to work, for example, and then sort of returns. These situations vary over the years, as Mr Paloniemi well knows. But I believe that we have a common understanding and vision of this, that this must combine the interests of the child, the interests of families, the interests of the elderly and the interests of those being cared for, and the common aim of all of us is to develop and strengthen family care in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u175	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order of 7. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 5/2016 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading on the Additional Protocol and then at the second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-24-ps-57.u176	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 4/2016 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 20 May 2016.
