ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to that ministerial box. Then I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u2	First question, Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u3	Mr President! The theme of Finland’s Year of Independence is Together. We Finns have overcome great difficulties together, working together, compromising our interests for the common good. It is the greatest strength of independent Finland, but it requires confidence, confidence that everyone will participate according to their powers. We decision-makers have the greatest responsibility for justice. Mr Vice-President, you have said that you cannot, cannot and cannot afford to operate on the poor. So why are we in a situation where you are undermining the livelihoods of the lowest-income pensioners, while EUR 7000 a month is the biggest benefit to those who earn the most from tax reductions, where you are reducing unemployment benefits and child allowances, but you are reducing the taxation of millions of inheritances? Mr Vice-President, I believe that your words are sincere. Why do you do the opposite? You increase inequality in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u4	Madam President! Let's start with pensioners and low-income pensioners. This government has taken two separate decisions on raising the guarantee pension. In the last government where your party was involved, you talked about raising the guarantee pension, for four years you did not raise the guarantee pension. Madam President! Then, with regard to taxation, this government makes quite a lot of tax relief for the low-income because of the fact that a competitiveness agreement was obtained together with the Ay movement, with employers. It is a very significant tax relief that comes from there, and this tax relief also comes to those on low incomes who do not pay the tax. Some 30 million have been earmarked for it, and the Ministry of Finance is still looking for a model for how it can be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u6	It is clear that employment is the most important thing in this situation. That is precisely why it is a pity that the government's own legislative evaluation council considered that the government's tax solutions do not support employment. The government has decided on a so-called entrepreneurship reduction which will contribute up to tens of thousands of euros each year to the highest-income pharmacies, private doctors and lawyers. The government has also decided to reduce the tax on gifts and inheritances, which will contribute up to tens of thousands of euros to the recipients of millions of inheritances each year. Rarely have so few received this much. Last week, the Prime Minister acknowledged his disappointment that high incomes have not responded to your wishes and have not voluntarily participated in these efforts. Archbishop Kari Mäkinen asked the government for fairer taxation. Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, can you respond to this appeal for solidarity and change these decisions so that you do not increase the inequality of citizens any more?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u7	Madam President! The whole of Finland's well-being depends on whether we have better employment and economic growth. There are dazzling signs of this. The purpose of this government is to create a significant framework for more jobs. Although I do not want to go through history, I think there were some 100,000 more unemployed people in the last government. It's not quite a simple thing to undo it in a short time. As far as taxation is concerned, I believe that it is not very long ago that the present opposition parties provided massive corporate tax reliefs of hundreds of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u8	Madam President! The best way to combat poverty and inequality is through broad employment, the fact that as many people as possible can work, the fact that as many people as possible are now unemployed can get to work. That is why the central objective of the government is to increase the employment rate, and we are using a number of means to achieve it. Of these, this tax solution is one that Mr Harakka asked about. The key element of its tax solution is to reduce the tax burden on labour in all income categories. It has also received broad acceptance from economists, this basic idea that we are doing a proactively stimulating policy, because the domestic market is where we have the budding growth. We support this growth with a steady tax reduction for all income categories. From the point of view of fairness, I would like to emphasise that the government, with its previous decisions, has reduced the reduction in labour income by 450 million for those on low and middle incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u9	Mr President! The government has even decided to operate on child supplementation. The impact of these cuts will be repeated in the coming years when the government has also decided to dismantle the indexation of child supplements. By bringing together all the government cuts to low - income families, it can be noted that the inequality of children based on the financial position of parents is increasing and deepening. Prime Minister Sipilä said last season that there can be no further cuts to child supplements because we have to learn from the mistakes of the last recession and, Minister Soini, you said that people with low incomes cannot be cut anymore. But now you're cutting. When are you going to carry out the overall impact assessment of the government's promised savings decisions on families with children?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u10	Madam President! This is an important theme, and I am very pleased to be able to inform Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen that this government lowered the daily care fees for low-income families and, if I do not recall correctly, it must have come to the table by a party. This government also withdrew the increases in day care fees, which, in my opinion, was a sensible policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u13	Mr President! As far as the assessment of these budgetary implications is concerned, I would first like to say to the representatives of the SDP who asked the question — and this has already come to the fore — that all the work equipment is still in use as the basis for drawing up the budget, which was also in the last government where you were involved. I have ensured that there has been no change in these practices, i.e. a broad assessment of the effects on income distribution, on the same basis as in the past. In addition, we have an important work being done at the Ministry of Finance, in which these effects on families with children are assessed and developed in the process of getting to grips with it properly. Today, we have last discussed this in the Ministry, and I hope that it will move at a rapid pace. And with regard to the situation of families with children in general, I think it is a very good idea to have the policy of reducing the fees for day care, early childhood education for families with low incomes and then not increasing them from those with average income — a very good decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u14	Mr President! However, I would like to remind you, Mr Vice-President, that there are still about one million poor people in this country who cannot and must not cut anything. You plead that you have brought a guarantee pension and that you are bringing a basic income. Both of these amounts leave people below the poverty line. What's the point? Why can't you just admit that these guys are also increasing the income gap? These bring inequality, cuts that this government has made, take away from the poor, give to the rich. This is not like Rodin Hood, who takes from the rich and gives to the poor, but it does go in a completely different direction: the poor are paying for this. How long do you think the poor can afford to give to the rich and transfer money into the pockets of the rich?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u15	Madam President! What Mr Tolppanen says about the situation of the poor is true, and we must do everything we can to reduce it, and the best poverty alleviator is good employment, that is the best of all. And as far as income support is concerned, it has been taken to Kela. The guarantee pension has also increased, unlike during the last period of the party you represent today. However, this government takes poverty seriously and admits that there is a lot of work to be done and these things are not well. But the only way to achieve this is to improve employment and economic growth. And yes, when you talk about the poor and the children, the sovereign debt: how long do we middle-aged men and women take billions of dollars in debt and pass our own problems on to future generations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u16	Mr President! Maybe it's okay to go over this pensioner thing first. With these index cuts, the earnings of the most low-income people on guaranteed pension will be cut during this period. It's a fact. It's a trick. And as far as this very important matter is concerned, Mr President, the Minister of Soini pointed out, to this future of children, so unfortunately, according to Kela's research blog, children's poverty in Finland will increase next year through these government decisions. But as far as these tax cuts are concerned, you said that those on low incomes will receive large tax reductions. Let's see what that means. The average pensioner gets 10 bucks, the chef gets 20s, but the managers receive up to 100 euros a month and, for example, higher-income pharmacies up to 25000 euros a year. And at the same time, they cut off low incomes. I would now like to ask the government: What is your overall assessment of your actions? What impact do they have on inequality and income inequality in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u17	Madam President! It's a good thing we're going through this. In addition, for low-income earners, including pensioners and guaranteed pensioners and many others: the upper secondary tax will be abolished from 300,000 low-income earners. I think that's a good thing. Taxes are being reduced, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in seven years. If by raising taxes all things are put right, then taxation should be 100%.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u20	Furthermore, to this issue of the most vulnerable: this 30 million — which is targeted at the most low-income people who cannot be taxed because no taxes are paid on the lowest incomes — is actually being applied for and done in the STM, because we need to find the most effective instruments that really target those people who are the most vulnerable and have the lowest incomes. But I would also like to say that it was very important that this also concerned pensioners. For pensioners, this tax reduction is a question of fairness. Most of these additional euros, which it brings, go directly to consumption and serve the purpose that I raised, namely to support people's purchasing power and stimulate the Finnish domestic market and demand, contribute to strengthening employment, which is ultimately the only and best way for us to have a prosperous Finland and as little poverty as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u21	Mr President! The government has cut low incomes and the customer fees for low incomes have been increased, so it is indeed a wrong value choice that tax reductions are targeted so that they do not benefit people with low incomes better. I should have done more separation. Work is the best social security, and it would be good for everyone to have work. As I recall, the government has a leading project for the part-time workers in working life. Is there going to be any measures, anything that really helps those who are able to work part-time, such as people with disabilities and the long-term unemployed, to get to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u22	Mr President! This is indeed a good lead for the government, which is in preparation, and I am confident that this project will proceed. I'm sure it's about to come up with some guidelines. I would also like to say that this project has also attracted interest abroad. This is something where we Finns are pioneers. And I'm sure we'll come back to this question when there's something more ready.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u23	Mr President! The total is determined by the sum of the known Government solutions — the competitiveness pact, tax changes, cuts — here is the result: the income of the best ten of the income recipients is higher than EUR 800 per year, the income of the two lowest ten of the income recipients is reduced. Here's the truth. Is this right, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Soini? Fairness also applies to fairness between different categories of income recipients. The Government has emphasised the need for consistency in the taxation of employees and pensioners. How is it justified that even at such low pension income levels or average income levels, between EUR 1500 and EUR 2500 per month, next year the tax rate will be higher for pensioners than for wage and salary earners receiving similar income? Is this fair?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u25	Madam President! I am not quite sure that this pension solution, which you are talking about, is the result of this government. Of course, this government is responsible for everything it has done. But let me be clear: This government has made significant tax reliefs in respect of the income acquisition reduction. This government has given all categories of income — it is true that all categories of income — but it was mainly what was agreed in the Competitiveness Pact. In addition, the government took the corrective measures referred to by the Minister of Finance Orpo. But still, the clearest way forward: we will not have enough money if our employment does not improve and economic growth does not start, and we, unfortunately, have largely been in this swamp since 2008. And like I said, there's no easy task.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u26	Mr President! It is important for the equality of citizens and legal certainty that citizens are treated in the same way. And when it was stated here that this entrepreneurial deduction treats citizens unequally: the previous government, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, took their decision in terms of reducing the corporation tax of some 1000 lawyers and some 200 of the highest pharmacists. But the real question, Deputy Prime Minister. Pensioners without income and small numbers of pensioners
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u27	Madam President! Very briefly, yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u28	Mr President! The policy of this government will increase poverty, increase income differentials, weaken purchasing power for a large part of the nation — disparate in a word. Mr Vice-President, your government's action is to take away EUR 10 and give EUR 1 in place and then celebrate it here in the Chamber. It is no wonder that you have now hidden this EUR 30 million allocation solution. The budget has been under discussion here for a long time and there is no information on the impact of this 30 million. Why are you hiding this solution? You have already known for several weeks that such a result of government policy will be. I ask: What, for example, will the cook get for this money? Will this EUR 30 million be allocated to those living in social security? What do pensioners get out of this solution?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u29	Madam President! This matter will be investigated and ensured so that this 30 million actually goes to that address, that is, to those most in difficulty. Now let's find that model, and it'll come up in the supplement later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u30	Madam President! To this tax treatment of pensioners: That is probably what it is all about right now, that when we do not pay tax on the smallest incomes, that is why it is there at the moment that the revenue effects do not show this tax reduction for all. But that is precisely the problem that it seeks to solve for 30 million people. Once again, it has to be said that when we concluded a competitiveness pact, so that we could get work in the country, so that we could have competitiveness, we did it together with the social partners, and that agreement reduced the taxation of high incomes, and the government has corrected it by its own efforts by allocating its own tax reduction resources to those on low and middle incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u31	Next question, Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u32	Madam President! The OECD report recently reported that over one-fifth of men in their 20s are out of work and education. Over the past decade, the proportion of these young people has increased by nearly 10 percentage points. The corresponding figures for young women are lower, but the overall situation is also lower than the OECD average in Finland. We have ended up in the same group as the EU countries that have been struggling with severe economic difficulties. The Government has reduced funding for the Youth Guarantee and youth work. Education cuts also make things worse. Of course, the investments made by young people, for example, or by the Helplines providing services, are good, but I think they are insufficient. So, Mr President, how does the government intend to respond to this common challenge in order to ensure that no young person is left empty?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u33	Mr President! A very important topic and great concern for young people who are completely excluded from education and working life. That is why we currently have a very large number of measures to influence this issue. There was a sincere attempt during the previous reign. A youth guarantee was made, but unfortunately its results were not very promising, namely youth unemployment and the number of young people not in education and employment. Now we need better and more effective medicines and then, on the other hand, we need to safeguard the action that produces good results. Last year, for example, 19,000 young people who are at risk of exclusion or are already excluded from youth work were reached by detectives. We will continue to do so, and this funding was secured in the budget debate, as well as in the financing of workshop activities. The cockpit activity, which is a one-stop shop service for young people, is nationalised. In addition, we are in the process of reforming vocational education and training, where particular attention is paid to improving the level of success, i.e. failing to complete training, which is a fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u34	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u35	Madam President! Thank you, Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, for your reply. Despite the reform, however, vocational education and training is cutting by some EUR 190 million. Vocational education and training is one of the most important ways to bring our young people towards working life and well-being. Vocational institutions have already been known to spare their walls and administration. There is now a threat of further savings in education, staff and important additional services to prevent exclusion. This will increase school drop-out and drop-out. Vocational education and training really plays a particularly important role in increasing the participation of young men in particular. In turn, the decrease in the number of admissions will lead to an increasing competition for seats, which will make it easy for the seven boys to fall. My question to the government is: how do you ensure that vocational training can continue to take inclusive measures against exclusion in spite of cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u36	Mr President! Again, a very good question, which I am sure is important to all of us. The previous government was left with savings in vocational education and training, and this government is now forced to implement them. But we are doing it through structural reform, keeping very close to that month of education, which is to say that every person who has completed his primary school will have a secondary education place either from upper secondary school or from vocational education. Then, of course, we also have young people who have problems with life - control or mental health or drugs that make them unable to study. That is why the Youth Guarantee for the last period has also added elements of mental health services, which Minister Rehula can certainly tell us more about at some point. But then, in the reform of vocational education and training, the central idea is to build flexible paths that can better serve individual skills needs, i.e. to take little account of the starting point of the young person or its student, the skills he needs and the kind of support he needs in particular for his or her own studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u37	Mr President! Indeed, the fact that more than one-fifth of young boys between the ages of 20 and 24 are out of work or education is very worrying. Many of them also lack a secondary degree, and then the forecast in the labour market is really bad. Those who cannot even pass a secondary degree have a poor chance of finding employment and remaining part of society throughout their lives, and then there will be problems of exclusion. Investing in these young people is always worthwhile. The number of young people who are now excluded from education or work is increasing. And then I would like to ask the whole government, including the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister's deputy: at the same time, how can we cut education so much and weaken the youth guarantee, because it has also been cut off? These are not enough places for these individual workshop funding if the overall situation is that young people are more excluded, especially young boys, and that is also a regional problem. What are you, as the whole government, going to do about this and not just leave it to the Minister for Education to decide where to go?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u38	Mr President! I would like to correct one of the impressions of this previous speech that there is no misconception: the funding of outreach youth work and workshops was secured in the budget debate, which is to say that it will continue. Similarly, we are investing in the continuation of the skills programme for young adults, namely that it is precisely young people who have not completed education for various reasons or who have not completed their studies, who can be offered those places at a time when they are in their early 20s and have a weak labour market position when they are not there. So this is what they're really investing in. Similarly, a separate budget has been set aside for training asylum seekers in order to respond immediately to the need for know-how, as far as it comes from there, to ensure that they too can be brought quickly into the labour market and become part of our society. In other words, a great deal of attention will be paid to these issues. The reform of vocational education and training is now an important success in reducing this suspension, because the problem is precisely that all young people receive the place of education, but it falls short of a very large number of secondary levels. This will be addressed, inter alia, through the development of a more supportive financing model, in order to make it particularly worthwhile for educational institutions to invest in support of young people,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u39	Madam President! An important debate on an important subject. I had the opportunity on Monday to start this week by visiting Lahti to explore precisely this kind of Ohjaamo activity and their concept. In my opinion, there is a model which is worth taking as an example to the rest of the country, and this is being exported. So they have identified these problems and joined forces to make these decisions. There are companies involved, there are schools involved. After all, this large, growing number of young men who are dropping out of school leaves the school, and we all have to worry about that. Many times when they come to the second degree, they may even have poor literacy, arithmetic. They've just been admitted to that stage, and it's a disservice to these people. You also have to be able to insist. This one's leaving home. This one's leaving school. But these good models and the sharing of this kind of activity around Finland — here is one good answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u40	Mr President! This is about 35,000 young men who are at the best age of their lives, between 20 and 24 years of age. This figure is dramatic and it is not the fault of the current government alone. But from one point of view it is, and now I am looking in particular at Deputy Prime Minister Soini: for example, this skills programme for young adults, which has 15,000 young unqualified young people now completing a degree. What's the government doing? There is a dramatic reduction in these appropriations, and that seems to me to be the wrong policy. So now, with precision guidance, we need to get those young people, most of whom have dropped out of school, to complete a degree. That's the only way to get there. [President MariaLohela : Is there a question? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u43	Madam President! This was an interesting point of view: which one was the target, the young person or me? I'm sure it's both of them. That's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u46	Madam President! After all, this is a dramatic figure, as Mr Gustafsson said, and we must take this very seriously, and we will. If one in five young men is excluded after primary school, it is a message that must be taken seriously. For its part, the government responded by adding 10 million to this training for young adults over 15 to the spending limits, or above the spending limits, i.e. now there was an increase in appropriations. In addition, Minister Grahn-Laasonen is doing an admirable job in a difficult economic situation by doing all he can to find resources and target them on the very most painful points. But this is an issue where it is clear that this has been taken seriously by the government, and we are looking on a broad front for ways and aids to this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u47	Madam President! Unfortunately, this development of exclusion among young people has been going on for several parliamentary periods. After all, we have over 11000020-29 years of age young people who do not have secondary education and are looking forward to a highly hailed vocational school reform. I would have asked the Minister how you intend to get young people to sit there at school, because many young people cannot go through that degree for two or three years in the sense that it is too long for them and it is not necessarily the best learning environment. Secondly, this youth guarantee will also be reformed, because in the last parliamentary term it did not really produce results. What expectations do you, as a minister, have from your point of view that the Youth Guarantee Task Force would do there? That is what we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u48	Mr President! It is a real, good observation that many after comprehensive school — especially here are these boys, which have been talked about, but just as much girls — would like to be able to work more at hand with them and feel that they would already like to get out of it as if from school learning more like this to practice. We need to take this seriously. In Central Europe, for example, there is good experience that countries with a lot of this kind of workplace learning have lower youth unemployment and are able to build closer links to working life even then at the study stage. For this reason, in connection with this reform of vocational education and training, we are building a broader model of work-based learning, among other things, alongside apprenticeships such as this new model of training contracts, but taking into account that we cannot train too narrowly, but must also have the capacity to cope with changing working life, that you can always learn new occupations if it disappears from under the career.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u49	Madam President! With regard to the reform and savings of vocational education and training, it is strange that the money is first taken and then assumed that the reform can be reorganized in accordance with the legislation, and this wrong order will make it very possible for such rash and rapid austerity measures to be taken in the coming year and may also affect regional policy in such a way that offices are put down when you have to quickly try to find those savings targets. Even now, in Eastern and Northern Finland, for example, the distance to the secondary education place of under 16-year-olds is the longest in Finland, and it is feared that due to these savings they will put down offices. Is it still possible to consider waiting so long for the legislation to be put in place before these savings are carried forward, so that there is no ill-advised regional policy impact?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u50	Mr President! This schedule of savings is indeed a challenge and has been identified, but it has also been answered in such a way that this reform of vocational education and training has been carried out in very good cooperation with the field of vocational education and training, and the aim is to have a reform of vocational education and training during October, this major legislative reform, consultation rounds, when the organisers of education and training will have a great deal of time to prepare for it and they will already know what is coming from the beginning of 2018 and will then be able to adapt their activities next year on the basis of its new financing model and its new operating legislation. In other words, we will do our best in a tight economic situation with a tight timetable, but I must say that I also admire the preparation that the organisers of vocational education and training, in cooperation with the officials of the Ministry of Education and Culture, have made in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u51	Next question, Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u52	Madam President! Yesterday, we heard the news that another major contributor is going to work for a private, multinational health care company. The special assistant of the Ministerial Group of the Coalition Party will be appointed Head of Business Development, i.e. to trade private services to the public sector. At the same time, the Coalition Party has reversed the direction of the entire social welfare reform and made it one of Finland's largest privatisation projects. Of course, you can change jobs, but one day when you are preparing major legislative changes and you are at the heart of a social welfare reform and the next day you get a significant job in the great benefits of a legislative change, the question inevitably arises as to whether it would be necessary to impose a temporary ban on competition in similar situations. I therefore ask the government, Deputy Prime Minister Soin: do you not see the problem that the same people are preparing first for the privatisation of public services and then jumping to the management of large companies benefiting from the amendments of the law to collect bonuses without any kind of quarantine?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u53	Madam President! Of course, it is problematic if this information is used. That is quite clear, but I understand that both ministers and the main assistants have made a commitment that they will not do so. I do not have the competence to go to assess the replacement of a private person, but in general, Mr Modig, you are right. These must have game rules that are also able to ensure that such cream peeling does not happen. I am not going to go into the details of who has gone where and who has not, but we must have clear rules of play that the information you know about the government — or any inside information, whether it be the economy, the shares, the sales — must not be misused. And if you use it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u55	Madam President! It is, of course, quite clear to me that this is a cause for debate, and it is good that we are having a debate. As far as this question is concerned, the government has submitted a legislative proposal to Parliament. It is being dealt with here, and it is precisely in such cases that it is intended to make the rules of the game clear. It has already been observed in the past that there is a clear need for these clarifications of the rules of the game. However, it must be said that even this legislation on toughness does not necessarily solve all the problems. For example, if we place a quarantine on the one who left the state for private sector service, he should then be paid a salary for being at the home of the intermission. This is not quite clear either. But in any case, we need to assess this clearly. We need clear rules of play on these issues. As far as social reform is concerned, all the information relating to social protection is public. There is no secret science that some may think is seen here. But all in all
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u56	And I would also like to speak to the Minister in charge. — Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u57	Mr President! Indeed, with regard to this State Civil Service Act, it is here in Parliament in the Administrative Committee that expert consultations are taking place, and I am sure that the report will soon be ready. I think it is important that this should be done because since 2007 we have had a different recommendation in this regard, and in 2014 the Ethical Advisory Board proposed that this should also be included in the legislation. That's why we're on the move. And as Minister Orpo has said here, it means in the case of new posts that, if such a qualifying contract is concluded, the employer also undertakes to pay for that year — the year is the maximum period — including the salary. As far as ministers are concerned, when the ministers of this government started, we made a voluntary commitment that, if we know that we are moving on to other tasks during or immediately after the ministerial term, we should notify the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u58	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u59	Madam President! I'm glad the government supports the idea of carnage. This social reform is a vital reform for Finnish society, and the cream peeling mentioned by Minister Soin in this context must be prevented. During the last term of government, we seemed to have a cross-party consensus that the social welfare reform should strengthen public services and guarantee the integration of services. Today, the coalition has promoted a wide-ranging model of freedom of choice, which completely changes the nature of the reform as a whole. It is likely that if this reform takes place according to the plans of the current government, large, multinational health operators will buy small, possibly domestic, operators out of the market — and, as we know, many of these multinational health waste will not be very happy to pay taxes to Finland. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Orpo, how do you ensure in the social welfare reform that our tax money for social and health services does not result in the profits of these multinational tax-avoiding companies? How do you ensure that the customer fees paid by sick people and all the rest?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u60	Madam President! The purpose of the reform of social and health services is to make the tax money sufficient so that we have the best possible services for every Finnish citizen. If you need treatment, this is an absolutely essential starting point. An equally important starting point is that taxpayers' euros are taken care of. Of course, we do not make a system in which someone can use our money, and we will take care of that in the preparation. I believe Mr Rehula can tell us more about this. And to use this freedom of choice is a wonderful thing. A person can choose where to apply for his service. Then another: Let's take advantage of the market. Note: The public sector exploits the market, not the other way around. The market is not taking advantage of the public sector, it is not going to take taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u61	Madam President! We are all in favour of freedom of choice, but the social and health reform that you are now pursuing is not about freedom of choice for people, ordinary Finns, but about giving freedom to large, multinational, tax haven-based companies to choose whether they pay taxes on our common money. Madam President! Last season, all eight parliamentary parties were working together on social reform, the opposition's request was included, and rightly so. This time, the government has been pushing for this social reform. The Centre Party and the Finns of Peru, who last season were included in the opposition, have forgotten the demands. Last season, seven parties opposed privatisation, one party supported it. Mr Soini, such leaps as we are talking about could be prevented by not allowing private individuals to exploit our social and health services. Why on earth did you give in to the assembly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u62	Madam President! Mr Arhinmäki, I know very well that this solution was attempted last season. Why didn't it happen? Together, we made a decision that did not pass the constitutional test. That's why it failed. It was not that we had no desire to do it, it could not only be done in such a way, and in this country we must obey the laws. Now we are going to make a new attempt, and I can say that I am certainly not pursuing such a law, nor this government, just as Minister Orpo said. Our only objective is that we, with less money to which we are under pressure, will be able to deal with people on the basis of illness, not on the basis of a wallet. That's the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u64	Värderade Talman! På tal om landskapsreformen så är det anmärkningsvärt att Kommunförbundets styrelse i ganska kritiska ordalag uttaat sig om regeringens landskapsreform som för närvarande är på utlåtanderond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u65	Madam President! One of the key objectives of this preparation, which is now at a stage — in a situation in which the legislative package is in the consultation process — has been transparency. In the course of previous speeches, there were mediocre voices about who has been kept out of the way and who has been involved. All the material related to the preparation has been and is open. Secondly, with regard to the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, both the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the opposition have received such greetings that the previous Parliament, the previous Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, instructed and denied, which supports this current preparation of what may be the role of the municipality in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u66	Madam President! It is very important that Finland tackles the aggressive tax planning of companies. We have two recent rulings from the Supreme Administrative Court which have meant that, in many situations, such aggressive tax planning is considered to be a tax evasion prohibited by law. In yesterday's Kauppalehti, tax consultants complained that Finland's too strict administrative and case-law could even lead to us not getting the investments we want in Finland. In my opinion, this reflects, contrary to what the opposition said, that Finland is interfering with aggressive tax planning, and that is a good thing. If some companies pay too much attention to tax avoidance, they will certainly have to answer publicly at least, and that is a point that customers who will be allowed to choose the provider of their health services themselves can — and perhaps should — take into account when making their choices. As far as this social welfare reform is concerned, that freedom of choice is precisely about the choice of the customer, the patient, being able to choose for himself. Today, there is freedom of choice for a client or patient who can afford it, after the social welfare reform, for others too, is there not, Minister Ruhula?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u67	Madam President! The Act on the organisation of social and health care in the consultation has criteria for meeting the conditions to be met in order to be eligible for service provision, to be covered by publicly funded services. Secondly, because of Article 124 of the Constitution, the legislative package in the consultation is that operators who exercise public authority and public money will require that decisions as well as the use of the euro be transparent in accordance with the principles of publicity. We are in the process of drafting legislation, and I hope that, in due course, Parliament will adopt legislation such as this one, that these rhetorically fine statements by the opposition as such are unfounded. We're in a situation where all of this is exposed now. I await feedback, I look forward to comments and statements on whether this level is sufficient, but what has now been written is certainly based on Article 124 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u68	Mr President! It's great that Minister Rehula has a lot of faith. One cannot but wish the subscriber-producer model, which has not necessarily worked on a smaller scale in other sectors, good luck and success in particular. But now that these 18 social welfare areas have been selected and we are also talking here about taxation, which Mr Zyskowicz has made very clear, I will continue to return to these weeks of changing jobs for the convention and to what is happening inside and outside Attendo, Bees and Health Houses. It is good that new legislation is being prepared, but I would like to ask the question — of course workers must have the right to change jobs, that is clear — with what timetable and how you intend to bring this new legislation into Parliament and in what way it will intervene in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u69	Mr President! Well, I guess I said that a little while ago, I don't know. It is on the table, it was given here at the turn of May/June, and it is in my view in the Administrative Committee. Expert consultations are well under way and will be the subject of a report very soon. So we'll probably decide that together in a couple of weeks here in the big room. At the same time, I would like to say that this is not the only way to resolve this now, but it is a good thing that we put legislation in the law. This also raises the question, of course, on the part of the local government and also on the part of the regional reform, and we have stated in that way in the working group of government ministers for reform that we also want to take these same regulations to the local government and also to the provincial law, that they are in the same way analogue and equal when we are working here on the public side. As far as the municipality is concerned, there is little difference: the majority of employment contracts are employment contracts and not employment contracts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u70	Madam President! Yes, we do have this new legislation in the Committee on Administrative Affairs on the validity of these officials, and I think that these defections from the last few days from the public to private service show that there is a need for more precise regulation. But there are also a number of major issues in this new regulation, such as the fact that if, for example, a medium-sized official moves into private employment, or so moves away from his own office, for example, he moves on to consulting, whether he has orders or not, then he will receive a year’s salary at home. Does the Minister of Finance have any calculations on this, because this is a rather central issue if this is to be achieved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u72	It is my responsibility to prepare this government proposal, and it is indeed my responsibility to say that it may not be more than one year, and in that case, if such a penalty is imposed, then a qualifying contract will be concluded with this new staff member and will have to pay that salary as such. But then: This would have been possible already. Indeed, we have had recommendations since 2007, and I believe that this has not been very much used. This is probably for this very reason that it is not to be used in vain either, causing such a big threshold. But then, on the other hand, every once in a while, it stimulates this debate. Now I believe that, when we get the law into effect, the new posts, where there is this confidential information and the official has information for which confidentiality is required, will certainly be used much more. But I do not believe that the financial impact of this government's proposal is very great.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u74	Yes, for the third time I will say that this tough legislation is here before Parliament, in the Committee on Administrative Affairs. This isn't delaying anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u75	Madam President! When the opposition was asked three times, I will say a second time: it is already here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u76	We have time to take one more question. Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u77	Madam President! The birth rate in our country is so low that would it not be high time to really invest in family and population policy and encourage families to have a larger number of children? Now the government is doing exactly the opposite, constantly cutting from families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u78	Madam President! Here again, the government has no secret plans, no additional protocols or cabinet decisions. Secondly, is it not the best family policy to improve predictability in the most congested years of life? This is about getting the foundations of the economy in order, securing jobs for people, seeing it as Finland's future in such a way that uncertainties are minimised. It's the big picture we're going to. As far as family policy is concerned, as part of the social welfare reform and as part of the usual preparatory work in the Ministry, we will try to ensure that the content of child and family services is brought to the level of this decade, that the much-speaked good practices are amplified throughout the country and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u79	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u80	Mr President! Today, in the referral debate, we have a citizens' initiative for a maternity law. In addition to maternity law, this initiative would affect six other laws such as fertility treatments, child support and child custody and access rights. In essence, the initiative proposes that two mothers can be confirmed for one child. [Second Vice-PresidentArtoSatonen : I am sorry, I ask that the other meeting be interrupted and centralised to listen to the — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u83	Although this speech raised a number of requests for reply, it is probably proper that, since there are certainly many other speakers here, we should go through a few speeches and then only go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u84	Mr President! The citizens' initiative wants to introduce into Finnish legislation a new way of defining maternity by recognising it when a couple of women have acquired a child through fertility treatments. In addition to the amendment of the maternity law, the Fertility Care Act is proposed to be amended in such a way as to make it possible for female couples to receive infertility treatments together. Fertility treatments for female couples would thus be brought into the healthcare sector. It is good to note that these proposals go considerably further than the so - called gender-neutral marriage law. In the past, the Christian Democrats did not support the amendment of the Fertility Treatment Act, which resulted in some children losing the right to a father. The problems we have raised at the time are therefore recognised, but attempts are being made to remedy them by means of a rather complex regulatory framework without interfering with the core problem itself. Legislation has created a legal security problem when the biological facts of parenthood are ignored. In principle, the Christian Democrats have not supported proposals for fertility treatments that close the child’s right to both father and mother. If the Fertility Care Act is opened, the child’s right to father should be strengthened. Legislation must be based on the right of the child to parents, not on the right of the parents to the child. The adoption law, unlike this citizens' initiative, recognises the importance of paternity. According to the adoption law, the child’s biological father’s identity should be sought as far as possible and his or her paternity confirmed before adoption. This is important, according to the law’s explanatory statement, so that the father’s desire and ability to care for his child’s care and upbringing can also be assessed before adoption. The provisions of the law will contribute to the child’s future knowledge of the identity of his or her biological father. The importance of fatherhood is recognised in the adoption law, although it is a situation in which a child does not even, in principle, come to be raised with him. The right of a child to a biological father is also in the best interests of the child on the basis of international agreements. According to Article 7 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the child is, as a rule, entitled to know his or her parents. The case-law of the European Court of Human Rights also guarantees the right of the child to know his or her own origin. Mr President! Under current legislation, maternity is based either on childbirth or adoption. It is good to note that parenthood through family adoption is already possible through current legislation. The report by the Ministry of Justice on the reform of the paternity law from a few years ago goes through an international comparison of the definition of motherhood, and it appears that in some countries — other Nordic countries and England and Wales — where the female partner of the mother who gave birth is confirmed as parenting, the word “parent” is used — “föraldra” or, for example, in Norway, “medmor” — but not the mother. Becoming a mother by recognising that motherhood confuses concepts, for example, in social and health services, where, however, a distinction must be made between the mother who gives birth or who has just given birth and the mother who has become a mother. The initiative is also incompatible with existing legislation. According to the reasons for the initiative, the finding of a motherhood would not require the birth of a woman of her gender. So a mother can be a woman who has changed her sex to a man, and this is in conflict with the current transfiguration. So this is obviously anticipating a change to the transfiguration. In the citizens' initiative, it may also be necessary to find out who considers himself to be the mother of the child — this is a direct quote from the text of this citizens' initiative. And I must say that, legally speaking, very interesting situations can arise if a person who has become a mother wants to withdraw this confession later or if there is doubt as to whether a common expression of will has been reached in fertility treatments. Among other things, the report by the Ministry of Justice's working party raises this point, although you are positive about this issue, but notes that the withdrawal of the recognition of motherhood is indeed problematic compared, for example, to the fact that we have the possibility of withdrawing recognition of paternity in legislation. Mr President! All in all, it can only be said that the previous amendment to the Fertility Care Act has resulted in deliberate fatherlessness and is now being thoroughly corrected by a change in the concept of motherhood. I hope that the committee will understand the legal and principled contradictions of this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u85	Mr President! I would like to remind all Members that we are required here to conduct ourselves with dignity and stability, regardless of what we think. And I must say that it is very difficult for me to listen to speeches about families and motherhood that are so demeaning as the first speaker has said. And I must say to all these mothers and these children who follow this broadcast that in a civilized society you should not have to listen to this kind of talk. You are just as valuable, you are just as real families as any other family. Mr President! In Finland, almost every other day a child is born, the other parent of which is not recognised by our legislation. This means that if a child’s mother dies in childbirth and a family faces such a tragedy, a child with a loving parent is an orphan in the eyes of the law. Or if the baby’s parents divorce at the end of pregnancy or after birth, the child loses the right to another parent. This parent is not entitled to see his or her child, but neither is there any obligation to provide for the child, and this is not in the best interests of the child. Mr President! The current Fertility Treatment Act does not allow treatment as a couple and therefore the children born from them are left without the protection of the law. The mother must always go through the adoption process after the birth of the child, and this process can take months, even a year, and throughout this time the position of this child before the court is unclear and uncertain. The fact that we could recognize the parenting of another mother at the maternity clinic would guarantee this child’s right to family life right from the start, as is the case with other families. This would also save time and resources for municipal adoption advisers and district courts. This is a problem that would be very easy to fix, and it is no one's fault, no one's. The Ministry of Justice has already prepared a maternity law during the last parliamentary term, which would have corrected this matter. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs have actually dealt with this issue during this period and, on the basis of the extensive expert consultation that the committee had held, the majority position was quite clear: the legislation on fertility care needs to be corrected, the current situation does not guarantee equality between children and is not in line with the right of the child. And for this very reason — in the interests of equality between children and children — this initiative is defended by Finnish Child Welfare experts, both the Finnish Federation of Child Welfare, Save the Children's Association, the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare and the Finnish Unicef. This is about the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u90	I would also like to give the floor to the following representatives: Mr Tanus, Mr Sirén and Mr Modig. After that, we'll go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u91	Mr President! Citizens' initiative — a good opportunity for citizens to take initiatives and get things moving. However, this citizens' initiative includes not only a proposal for an entire maternity law but also six other laws with major changes. This is like a large collection of reports that have not been used by the Ministry. This was probably not the intention when the citizens' initiative was opened. Seven laws, huge issues for one citizens' initiative behind one of Parliament's buttons. This is in no way to be supported. Quoting the text of the citizens' initiative: "The primary objective of the proposal is to promote equality between children irrespective of the family form of their parents at the time of birth." Yes, I fully agree with this. It is the responsibility of adults to ensure not only the equality of children but also the fundamental rights of children, and this is at the very heart of it. Regardless of the environment or family form, all children have and must continue to have equal fundamental rights from the outset, the right to a mother and the right to a father as well, and neither can these rights and opportunities be attached to the thoughtful form of the father who gave them the child, or limited to just one month after the birth of the child, as suggested in the initiative. Half the kid's from my dad. The opportunities and fundamental rights of both the child and the father must be preserved. Children are not pawns of adults, including women’s hopes or dreams. Children have human rights and, unfortunately, this initiative does not respect them. Maternity Act, quoting the text of the initiative: "This law applies to the recognition and confirmation of maternity and to the annulment of maternity." In other words, the motherhood could be overturned. This is where we have forgotten to define it as the most important, that is to say, the motherhood. What is mother, and what is motherhood? Reading the initiative will very soon show that those behind the initiative have not understood these core issues at all or are trying to change their meaning completely. Mother — the miracle of life begins and drills into the wall of the womb, becomes part of the mother’s bloodstream, metabolism, movements, sensations and emotions. A common, closely interactive life for nine months. It is a huge turmoil in which the connection between mother and child is something quite unique. You could describe it for a very long time, but only when you have experienced it can you understand something about it. Of course, in this world, some mothers are gassing pregnancy in a career pipeline without understanding the uniqueness of the episode. All mothers are women, but not all women are mothers. Motherhood, becoming a mother changes a woman. Most of the priorities change, the values become clearer, and when he, who has been a part of me in the womb, is born, the interaction, the innocence of the child and the unscrupulous love often touch the mother very deeply, gives a whole new meaning and direction to the mother’s life. This brings us to one of the major reasons why even those Members of Parliament who have previously supported the initiative should not in any way accept, for example, the initiative proposed before the birth of a child to be recognised as a parent of another woman. Although women agree to go to fertility treatment and think they have a beautiful idea of a family, that is, two women, one of whom becomes a mother, and life would continue to be helpful, reality is often quite different. The birth of a child changes the family, changes every relationship, and in many relationships it is also a crisis. In a family where the child’s father and mother have been expecting a child together, the father can in a very special way bind the family’s feeling and awareness that the baby at hand is a part of me, and also the understanding that the child also needs the father’s closeness, touch and care for good growth and development. In the co-existence of two women, another woman lacks a share in the child’s inheritance as well as in the passage of a changing period of motherhood. Being a mother turns a mother, becoming a mother turns a woman, and it inevitably changes a relationship. In public, less is said, but the fact is that many who go into a lesbian relationship have experiences, neglects, or abuse that affect feelings or the body deep in childhood or youth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u94	Mr President! I'm not quite sure where I'd even start. But let me start with what this initiative is all about. This initiative is precisely about the rights of the child, the legal protection of the child, the right of the child to his or her parents. Even today, the child of a female couple is entitled to both parents, but this requires a lengthy, multi-stage process of internal adoption. Instead, the maternity law would allow this recognition of a child to be made at a maternity clinic even before the child’s birth. So the question is to secure two parents from birth for the child of a couple of women. Indeed, according to the rights of the child of the UN, children must not be discriminated against because of their parental qualities. In other words, the qualities of parents, such as sex or sexual orientation, must not jeopardise the child’s legal status. However, in the current situation, when a child is born into a family with two women as parents as a result of fertility treatments, there are no rules on the legal status of the child in relation to its non-biological parent. So that is what this is all about. But it seems that these many oppositions to the maternity law are more likely to stem from prejudice or at least from false assumptions. One such objection, which has been encountered with regard to this maternity law, is the relationship with fatherhood, and the maternity law does not take away any paternity from anyone. In fact, it is not even theoretically possible, because this law would apply only to female couples who have a child through fertility treatments in a situation where the father cannot be confirmed. So maternity law does not deprive anyone of the right to fatherhood or fathership.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u97	Mr President! Yes, I must be surprised that, apparently, you can say anything here in Parliament. I consider some of the previous speeches to be genuinely inappropriate. To Mr Niiko, I would like to say that you said that the only way to become a mother is by giving birth, well, it is simply not true and it is extremely offensive to all the mothers who have become a mother in some other way. There are, Mr Niikko, mothers who cannot become biologically pregnant. Adoption becomes just the same, just as valuable, a real mother. Through the foster family, you can become just the same, equally valuable, real mother. Retirement families create new parenthood. It is not our job to take a stand on what kind of families people have to set up. It is our job, by means of legislation, to ensure that all children are on an equal footing. Here, the Finns and Christian Democrats, very piously speaking, always speak of the child's interests, and in this initiative too, you see that this is not in the best interests of the child. Well, all child welfare organisations disagree with you, they think this is in the best interests of the child. Very selectively, you defend the interests of children, because so many children are excluded from your narrow family picture. I would like you to be no matter what you think of the female couple, and in the case of this law, you would be able to think about what is in the best interests of the child, and yes, two loving parents are definitely in the best interests of the child. Mr President! I must say that the citizens' initiative has once again shown its strength, because, as early as last term, this law was prepared at the Ministry and the majority of the previous Parliamentary Committee on Laws felt that this was an injustice that needs to be remedied in order to ensure equality between children. This government, like the previous one, lacked the courage and heart to bring the bill to Parliament, and it called for a citizens' initiative to enable Parliament to deal with the matter and to remedy this problem. Under the current legislation, children of female couples are in an unequal position. Both parents cannot be recognised as the parent of the child, because the Fertility Care Act does not allow care to be provided as a couple, even though the acquisition of the child is the will and wish of the couple. One mother always has to go through the adoption process after the birth of the child, and this leads to the scandalous situation in which the child does not have the right to another actual parent from birth. The adoption process can take up to a year for a few months. Even at the risk of this being too heavy an example, in the tragic situation in which a biological parent dies after birth, a child may become an orphan even if he really has another parent who loves him and who is committed to caring for him. It cannot by any means be in the best interests of the child. This applies only to children born in a fertility clinic in such a way that the sperm donor has denied the possibility of strengthening his fatherhood. It would apply to situations in which two adults, together, have wanted to start fertility treatments in order to have a child together. In today’s situation, these children are born with only one parent, and today they cannot be strengthened by a father. It's not gonna take anyone's father-in-law away. This law makes it possible for a child to have two parents, and it is certainly in the best interests of the child. Parents who have decided together that they want to assume the responsibility of parenting of a lifetime should be in the same position as other parents as soon as the child is born. The second mother will be able to be recognised in the maternity clinic according to the initiative. In this case, the child’s legal status is clear from birth and thus the law is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which prohibits discrimination against the child because of the characteristics of his or her parents. There is no way that it is in the best interests of a child to have no right to another parent. The maternity law would correct this situation and hopefully the parliament will approve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u98	Now we will open the debate with a V button, and the first debate will be given to Mrs Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u99	Mr President! I asked for this reply after Mr Nikon spoke. Among other things, he noted that in the case of rainbow families, a child would be born in the midst of a disorder. On the whole, it must be said that your speech, which you made out of that toilet, was outrageous, impertinent and inferior.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u102	Mr President! There is so much distortion in my words that we have to correct a little if we can at least make something right in this minute. Firstly, in my text, I raised one, as is stated in this citizens' initiative, that'saying a mother does not require the person who gave birth to a child to be a woman'. Isn't this a mess if this law turns into this? I wasn't criticizing any family structure here. Here you are twisting these things, and I am amazed that, without accountability, Members of Parliament are not able to talk about things as things, but that we always go personal and start twisting things. Secondly, what I said in my speech: You become a mother by giving birth, not by making laws. It's a fact of heaven. Of course, there are surrogates, as I said in my speech, and I mentioned that they are needed if the child does not have a real mother, an original mother. But we cannot legislate because we want two mothers or three mothers, one of whom may even be a man! That this madness should slowly begin to run out, because reason here no longer works.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u103	Well, I would ask that here, however, respect for other representatives remain with all the speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u104	Mr President! I am somewhat disturbed by what Mr Nikon said, and perhaps in some way the Christian Democrats also felt that there is some idea that heterogeneous families would automatically be better environments for growth. After all, we have had very painful and hot debates here when we talk about an equal marriage law, but this initiative is a rather legal debate on a very small group of people about what is already true that we would make it a little easier for that truth to be done in it. So we already have female couples who can have children through fertility treatment, and now we would only facilitate the way in which this motherhood can be recognised in this context. In my opinion, an excellent law was passed in Finland, in which recognition of paternity was facilitated during the last government term. I thought it was a good law. I also think that this initiative is well prepared, and that is why I support its progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u105	Mr President! I concluded that this citizens' initiative would not create a very heated debate. No matter how you feel about the equal marriage law, this law is about children's rights, that this is a reality today in Finland: we have families where the female couple have a child through fertility care. Now the question is how we take care of these children, that they have the same rights as all other children born. That is why I thought that all those who say they are defending children's rights are on this side, regardless of previous legislation. I am disappointed and sad at the way in which the few speeches have divided people into goats and sheep, given the impression that there are good and bad families,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u106	Mr President! Representative Sari Tanus, a doctor, defined in the hall what and how: what is maternity, and how is it born? And she answers that maternity is born through childbirth and pregnancy experience. This is how he nullifies,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u109	Mr President! I would really like to say to Mrs Raassina — there was 10 minutes — that I have a very great deal of respect for adoptive mothers, the adoptive parents. Those children who have lost their parents will have a home, an adoptive mother and hopefully that adoptive father too. Similarly, in foster families and in open adoption, mothers, adoptive mothers, do very valuable work. This is about the mother who's pregnant... I specifically described this situation as having a couple, two women, a couple, one becoming a mother through its pregnancy, and the other in this situation is not a mother. And I specifically wanted to raise it, as was the case with another speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u110	Let's stick to this one-minute response time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u111	Mr President! On Monday I was in the city of Oulu talking to the staff of the City of Oulu for two hours about equality and equality. It was a great opportunity when, for example, the maternity clinic staff were very open and courageous about their own ability to meet different families and also mirrored the difference between personal convictions and that professional ability to face everyone equally. Now that you listen to this debate, I find it confusing that we here at the heart of society are still debating whether someone's family is to be recognised or not or whether they have rights or not. What is at issue here is equality, as has been said in many speeches, is ultimately very technical legislation, which facilitates and safeguards the conditions for these already existing families. This is a proposal prepared by the Ministry of Justice and widely supported by various child and family organisations. It was also noted that the adult is for the child. That, too, is what this bill of law seeks to do even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u112	Chairman! We've been talking about family fashion here. We currently have a wide range of families, different kinds of families. We have polygamous families, even though they are not called marriages. And although these polygamous families, where there are many adults, for example, as a parent, are not called marriage, none of us think that they are less valuable people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u115	Mr President! A child needs two loving parents, but a child can only have one mother. A child should be able to trust that a mother is a mother and that no one needs to be told. But the child needs and has the right to another parent. Motherhood cannot be recognised, it comes either from the birth of a child or from the systems already experienced and seen, which we currently have in the legislation. Indeed, they are all in the best interests of the child. It's important to the child that there's another person next to the mother. It can be a woman, it can be a man — it is important that the child has many loving persons who feel responsible for the child. But the child can only have one mother.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u116	Mr President! Question Time raised great concerns about the exclusion of young people and the drift away from society, and Mr Niikko, among other things, spoke on this particular subject, and now, just an hour later, when the speech here at Niiko, among other things, calls into question the family form of thousands of children living in rainbow families, I would just like to ask: why does it forget that worry about the child and the rights of the child? Are we no longer concerned about exclusion at this point? The greatest problems facing children living in rainbow families are precisely the narrow-minded attitudes of this society towards their family forms and the discrimination they experience. This is a very long-awaited proposal, and a great thank you to those who took the initiative and to all those who have signed it. And as has already been said here today, it is worth repeating: the reform certainly does not go away from anyone, but it would have a huge impact on the minority whose lives, their daily lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u117	Mr President! First of all, to Mr Huhtasaari, I would like to point out that there is no sex change, it is being corrected. This is a very important difference. Secondly, I would like to remind you that I sincerely hope that, when we hold this debate in this nation's window, we will adhere to the firm and dignified conduct required of the parliamentarians. The kind of talk that labels whole groups of people, which makes crude generalizations, which talk about family confusion when the family concept does not correspond to one's own, is the talk of a bully, and I hope that we do not have to go in this Chamber. I am also a little confused as to why this rather technical issue seems to raise such strong questions in the minds of those who oppose this initiative, and I cannot really draw any conclusions other than the fact that there are political positions against all sexual and sexual minorities and their children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u120	Mr President! I think Mr Niikko made a direct speech of what he meant. Every legislator has the right and the duty to speak in the language that he feels is his, and I am also speaking in this way that my family concept is going to leave and come out of the fact that marriage is a marriage between a man and a woman. When we were discussing sex - neutral marriages, supporters said that it was not from anyone. It took a while, there was an initiative on fertility treatments, women’s fertility treatments, and it is said that there is no one out. It will take a few years, and someone here will be happy — here on iPad when I look — that wonderful, polygamy will come. It will take a few years, but again we will experience who is here in Parliament, that there will be a citizens' initiative on polygamy. There's an inner marriage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u121	There are still a few first rounds here, and then we will take another floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u122	Mr President! The initiative can be seen as a dismantling of standards, a very technical matter. It reduces administration, saves resources, does not prevent the strengthening of paternity, is carefully prepared and leads to a very practical law. However, we are talking here about people's lives and people's lives, especially at the most difficult moments. In modern practice, if a child’s biological mother dies or a couple divorces and the adoption of another mother has not yet been confirmed, the child has no legal parent, although in practice it is. Adoption processes can be very long and expensive. Mentally, they're always very heavy. The law would guarantee a legal relationship with a child born right from birth to his parents, and there would be no need to go through the heavy adoption process. I want to live in a humane Finland where children are in an equal position and parents are also entitled to their children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u123	Mr President! I, too, felt that the speeches made by representatives Niikko and Tanus were very strange and demeaning large groups of people and countless families. I myself have become the mother of two children by a very traditional method, and later I have become the grandmother of three children, but I cannot at all understand this idea of Mr Nikon that the recognition and improvement of children's rights in accordance with this bill would somehow degrade us biological mothers. Back in the day, when my second child was a baby, I read the book by psychologist Rudolph Schaffer on motherhood and especially on the emotional relationship and development of mother and child, and that left me with no memory of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u124	Mr President! As you can see from this debate, having a child is an emotional matter, but I think of this bill as purely legal, and I am rationally trying to think that we are here to cut red tape. In other words, the adoption process would now be completely excluded, and this objective that the child's legal status is clear at a very early stage will safeguard the best interests and equality of the child, and I think we now want to think about it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u125	Mr President! It has now been mentioned that rainbow families are a shambles, and the potential mental health problems of female couples have been discussed. The fact is that we have not spoken with respect of all the different family models that we have had for years and who live their daily lives there are listening to this debate. I hope that you, in your speeches, will take into account the person concerned who is listening to this debate because this law is not out of place. Niikko said that you don't make mothers by making laws — well, no. Mothers are born of love and care, and this love and care with this bill is intended to ensure for every child, including those born into the family of two women. But I also see this as very technical and legal and I am a little surprised at the tone of the debate. We have changed the recognition of paternity, we have an equal marriage law. This is a legal issue which guarantees equal rights for children who already exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u126	I would also like to give the floor to the representatives of Tanus, Saarikko, Huhtasaari and Arhinmäki, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u127	Mr President! It is confusing and sad that my speech has been perceived as demeaning. I would like to make it clear here that I have no contempt for anyone. I respect and strive to honor every human being as a person, regardless of his or her orientation. This bill is not technical, it is much more. Let it be said that even if the bill has been carefully prepared, it is in practice that one sees if it causes a variety of confusion. Here for more than 20 years as a person working with these things, I can see that this brings confusion. It has been said that this is not from anyone. It is precisely if we think, as has been pointed out in several speeches, that if the person who gave up sperm at that stage puts a check on the paper, that he does not want his paternity to be confirmed, then if a little later he comes to another thought, then the situation is that even if the child wants and biologically wants to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u128	Mr President! Yes, in this Chamber, confusingly many times, the words "mixed" and "mixed" have now been used. I love the fact that Finnish families are diverse. I myself want to respect parenthood in all its forms and wish every Finnish family good and courage to be older from their own point of view. This is a fundamental by which I think about the development and development of Finnish child and family policy. That is why it is good to repeat what this is all about. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : I'll hold on to this minute. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u131	Mr President! Politics is mainly an opinion. What is a political party if it has no ideology? In this Chamber, in this society too, the so-called narrow-minded must have room and there must also be room for different convictions. Sipilä has argued that this maternity law is a matter of conscience, and that is what we are voting on and that is what we are now discussing and then we are still discussing in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u132	Mr President! I have always agreed with Päivi Räsänen on these matters. In fact, I have been of the opinion that at the time, when a registered partnership was enacted, the next step there was an equal marriage law. I thought that when the fertility law was enacted it would expand and so on. These haven't been any hidden agendas. It has been reported that these are steps. But now, in this legislation, I do not recognise the hidden agendas that are being raised here. The fact that there is a suspicion that there is a hidden agenda here may tell us of the author's own way of doing more politics than of those who want to make a rather technical and simple change of laws that seeks to guarantee children rights similar to those of others. For example, when here a representative St. John's head was talking about fertility treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u133	Then we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u134	Mr President! Now that we have returned to the list of speakers, I would like to begin by thanking the representatives of Emma Kari, Saara-Sofia Siré and Silvia Modig for their excellent contributions to this referral debate. It is in the best interests of a child to have secure family relationships right from birth. The maternity law guarantees a clearer legal status for children of female couples after the birth of a child. I find it quite strange that a citizens' initiative has even been needed to promote this issue, as the draft maternity law has been carefully prepared by the Ministry of Justice as early as 2014. However, I would like to thank the large number of authors and supporters of the citizens' initiative for bringing this issue to the table. The maternity law would allow the child to be recognised by the child’s other mother when the pregnancy has started at the fertility clinic with the consent of the couple. In the current situation, this requires an adoption within the family, which leaves the other parent’s position unconfirmed for a long time and makes unnecessary official work. In addition to the dismantling of bureaucracy, we are talking about equal treatment for families. Thus, maternity law makes the legal status of children of female couples more secure. If the child’s parents are divorced during pregnancy, the maternity law also guarantees the child’s right to support and inheritance from another parent and gives the child the right to meet another parent. It also safeguards the child’s situation if one of the parents dies during pregnancy or during childbirth. These are tragic situations and legislation must be complete. In addition to strengthening the status of a child, the maternity law also saves the resources of society when, in clear situations, female couples no longer have to go through the difficult and burdensome process of family adoption in vain. The law saves the work of both municipal adoption advisers and district courts, as, in the current situation, internal adoption must be applied for separately from the district court and a separate adop advice must be provided for this purpose. I feel special. All major child and family organisations, Mr President, are in favour of this initiative. I think it is a strong signal that, although there are many debates in this Chamber, it would be in the best interests of the child to go through this initiative. The preparation of the Ministry of Justice takes full account of the content of the paternity law. The proposal also includes the necessary amendments to the annexes. In addition, changes in legislation brought about by equal marriage law must be taken into account in the context of the maternity law. Legislation equivalent to maternity law is in force in all other Nordic countries and in most Western European countries. So by accepting this amendment of the law we would certainly not be alone, quite the contrary. The law isn't from anyone in any way. That has become clear many times. No matter how you talk, this law is no different from anyone in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u137	We will continue with the list of speakers, and now there are so few speakers that you can ask for them with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u138	Mr President! First of all, it is a pity that the maternity law is in the referral debate right now, when the Committee on Legal Affairs is in Oulu on a committee trip. The Maternity Act comes to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the committee trip has been known to Parliament in good time. It has therefore been possible for only a few of us on the committee to participate in this debate. We are now dealing with a citizens' initiative for maternity and some related laws. This initiative is important for the legal protection of women's couples and, above all, of the unborn children of women's couples. The case has already been raised during the previous government, when the Ministry of Justice prepared the law under the leadership of the then Minister of Justice, Anna-Maja Henriksson. The Maternity Act has been fully prepared at the Ministry of Justice during the previous term of government. Similar legislation is in force in all the other Nordic countries and in most Western European countries, as has been pointed out in previous speeches. Today, the fact that a child of a female couple can have two legal parents requires a long and heavy family adoption process. This leaves the child’s legal status weak during pregnancy and also after birth. The situation becomes particularly problematic if the mother who gives birth dies in childbirth. This means that the child is legally deprived of a parent, even though the other parent actually exists. The situation is unsustainable and completely unnecessary for the rights of the child. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has also drawn attention to the legal protection of the child in its report when we were discussing the accompanying laws of equal marriage law. This issue was strongly raised in expert opinions during the committee debate. Mr President! The maternity law defines the status of the spouse of the giver. It allows the child to be recognised at a maternity clinic before the child is born. Fathers have been able to recognise their children at the maternity clinic since the beginning of 2016, with the entry into force of the paternity law, which was necessary and a good reform, and now this possibility must be extended to the non-born mother of female couples. The recognition is conditional on the consent of the couple to infertility treatments using donated germ cells whose donor cannot be confirmed as a father, and in this case the problem of the possibility or recognition of paternity does not actually exist in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u143	Mr President! When the clear aim of this government is to abolish the standards that make our lives more difficult for our citizens, it is confusing that such a simple and clear matter could not be dealt with by this legislative change without a huge emotional debate. At the same time, it is one step towards recognising the fact that in our midst there are families of different kinds, children brought into the world in different ways, and people who have become parents or will become people in different ways. Legislation must follow in such a way as to safeguard citizens' rights and define their responsibilities. We must — and why must we? — in this Chamber, there is repeated debate on a number of everyday issues, and in those debates, the equality of people and even human rights are often called into question in a rather harsh way. Almost everything that has already been said on this issue, including the speeches by Mrs Sirén and Mrs Modig, to which I warmly agree. However, I would like to say that internal adoption is a bureaucratic process which, from the point of view of the child, does not at present safeguard his or her rights vis-à-vis parents who have jointly decided to become the parent of this particular child. It is through the adoption of this law that the child’s right to loving and also legal parents is realised. And, as has already been said, this is not from anyone but for so many more. The citizens' initiative is exactly the right thing to do and I fully support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u144	Mr President! I too wholeheartedly support this citizens' initiative and also support the contributions made by representatives Kari, Sirén, Raassina, Kosonen, Modig, Parviainen and Marin on this issue. I also agree with those who have wondered why such a thing is a source of passion. It seems that often things that don’t cost anything that just make people’s lives easier and aren’t away from anyone stir up passions. I remember from earlier years when as a student, before I had any plans to get married, I read a committee report suggesting that a woman can keep her name when she gets married, and I thought, "Well, this will happen before I get married." This was not the case: I was married for ten years and I resigned before this law on surnames came into force. Several representatives have already pointed out that this proposal is supported by all major organisations promoting children's rights and child protection, such as the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, the Family Federation, the Federation of Child Welfare, Save the Children and the UNICEF of Finland. You would really think that such a thing would be self-evident. It has already been stated on several occasions here that the current law leaves the child of a female couple who have decided to have a couple together with them a legal status for an uncertain period of between 1 and 12 months, which is not in line with the rights of the child. All of us who have children know that the time when children are small is a very demanding time for parents. Because of legal barriers, society would not have to complicate this time any more than it does for natural reasons. It has been argued here that this law would somehow undermine the right of a child to a biological father. I understand that this situation, the situation of a female couple’s child, is exactly the same as that of a heterosexual couple born with donated sperm. The husband of a straight pair is the father of that child legally, but the child has the right to know the donor or biological origin of these sperm. So this too would only be a question of achieving equality. Mr President! Yesterday, the Women's Network of the Parliament organised an opportunity to remember one of the first MPs and the life work of the First Minister for Women, Miina Sillanpää. One of the key things was to improve the position of single mothers and their children. There has really been a long time in Finland when society treated children quite differently, depending on whether they were born in marriage or whether the mother was married at the time of birth. Well, fortunately, we have come a long way from this, and now it is time to give equal status to the children of women's couples as well. Mr President! In that debut, I tried to refer — but time was running out — to the wise book on motherhood that I read when my younger child was a baby. I grabbed that book with a little bit of suspicion because I assumed it was another book of this kind that makes mothers guilty, which says that the mother must be glued around the whole time to that child, otherwise she is a bad mother and the child goes to the Hunngo, and no one else is ever good enough to take care of the child. The book dealt with the emotional relationship between the child and the mother, its significance for the child’s emotional life and growth and security, but it also stated that the mother — in the sense that the book deals with — does not have to be the child’s biological mother, the mother does not have to be a woman and the mother does not have to be one person. In motherhood and parenthood, the most important thing is the family in which the child grows up and the emotional relationships within its family.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u145	Mr President! A lot of important things have come up in this debate, very valuable proposals from all people. This proposal is not about equality, it is about the right of the child. It's really not a matter of family recognition. It's about one mother. I recognize as a family very diverse families. The most important thing today is that children have loving parents. It is not out of anyone that only one mother is recorded for the child, it is definitely in the best interests of the child that only one mother is recorded. What is important is that one parent, another guardian, another person who is legally responsible for the child can be registered with the child. But the child can only have one mother. It's also about biology, it's about normal life. In this, I agree with many of those who have spoken in this Chamber and who have said things, that two parents should be recorded. Almost everyone in this Chamber agrees that a child needs two parents. But you really don't have to be two mothers. You have to be two parents. However, we still need to consider how to ensure the right of the child’s true father. In my view, the legislation could be adapted on the basis that such a person, who is a spouse, is already registered as a second guardian at the stage of pregnancy or may already automatically be a second guardian and is registered as a second guardian, a second parent. We could build a legal correction as a basis that such a woman would always be another guardian without being a mother. Analogue to the recognition of paternity is certainly not appropriate, because in it the real biological father recognizes fatherhood, not any person with whom the mother happens to live at that time — or even though it is how officially already together, the mother is still the mother and the father is the father. You can't just throw a real father away if he wants to be a father. Indeed, a child has the right to two loving parents, only one of whom can be a biological mother or otherwise a mother. I am the mother of four children, and I am really proud and happy that I have managed to have four of the most important things in my life, the greatest of all — I get to be the mother of four children. Surely my children are just as valuable as those who grow up in the family of two persons of the same sex. But they too should clearly have the right to one mother and two parents. Children are a gift from God. I have said this many times, because in Finland we have very many married couples or otherwise only couples living together who want to have a baby. Basically, it would always be possible, but these just don't have a baby, no matter how hard they try. So having a baby is really big and important. It's not like motherhood is just a thing to take. Let us also appreciate those who will never be able to become a mother, no matter how hard they try to become a mother. Let us move on with this matter in such a way that we assume that the child should have two parents, but only one mother.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u146	Mr President! In this house, at the same time as this debate, there is a meeting of the social media monitoring team, which makes it difficult to be in two places at the same time, but fortunately I have arrived here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u147	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I warmly support this citizens' initiative on maternity law. I would like to thank all the background organisations, individuals and people who have put their time into preparing this proposal. It has been said here in part that we are not allowed to express our own opinion or that everyone is entitled to opinion and freedom of speech. Of course it is in principle, but I myself am one of those who would also like to reflect out loud on when, in the case of a group of people, that freedom of expression can no longer be achieved in the sense that anything can be said. It is a social development when we become aware of the new life. When equality is progressing and equality is progressing, it should at the same time bring to these different individuals or people of different minority groups the protection of human rights and equality, so that they do not have to be exposed in society to any kind of debate — or, in particular, to a debate that calls into question the life that is taking place today, today and now. I think that is what this is all about. Personally, I believe that if we look at this citizens' initiative on the maternity law, we have a question that should no longer be a question under the debatability of this House. We are talking about families who live their daily lives in this society today, both physically and at the level of language and verbalism. It has been said here that a child cannot have two mothers, but we have a huge number of families in Finnish society with two mothers at the moment and the child calls two safe adults around him his mother. I believe that this is an aspect which must definitely be taken into account, and I believe that this is also part of the argument and the basis, which is why all the most important organisations in Finland that are in the best interests of the child have gone behind this proposal. In my opinion, it is a statement which is not worth taking lightly either. These are very stable organisations that work with respect and appreciation in a cross-cutting way in the best interests of the child. They also do not go out on impulse to support things, but there is a great deal of expertise and reflection and a long-term perspective on Finnish social life, the best interests of the child, the development of the best interests of its child and the development and well-being of Finnish families in Finnish society. I referred earlier to the fact that I was in Oulu on Monday at this kind of training seminar to discuss equality and equality with municipal employees. One aspect of this was discussed: there was talk of maternity clinics and how to meet these different Finnish families at the maternity clinic. One fine insight there was that when a family comes to the clinic, which may be a new or different form of family for the nurse, although it may be something new or different that she does not know whether she can look at her own profession directly into the family, how important and professionally responsible it would be to reverse the situation so that professionalism is not necessarily at this point in the family's counseling, but could be a question for the family, the opening of a discussion about your family and the need for your family. With that question as a professional, I will open the door to the fact that the new family form becomes familiar with the system and will have the opportunity to assess in a new way how we organise these services, how we create it, so that you will certainly receive equal and equal treatment as all other families. With regard to maternity law, perhaps I, as our decision-makers, would like to see the same responsibility that now is the social leadership and decision-making and stability that we dare ask, we dare to open our ears to the needs and hopes and expectations of those families that are part of our society, and that their wish would be the guiding factor so that we can see that this law is absolutely something that needs to be put in order. However, as has been well described here on many points in many speeches, it is ultimately a matter of very technical changes, but at the same time, even though they are technical changes, they also have that cultural level. All these changes are part of the cultural change in which we create the equality and equality, equal treatment both at the service level and through the kind of language we use, how we say the life of every Finnish family in this society, or how every child can live in a family as valuable and safe as everyone else.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u148	Mr President! On the other hand, it has been quite confusing to hear and, on the other hand, it must be even more critical as to the way things are presented and the translation of words. But it is my own idea and I wonder who will read through my first speech that I cannot say that there would be demeaning translations of words or any group of people in it. I tried to describe what happens when life begins in the mother’s womb, and what changes occur, and, on the other hand, to create a picture of how easily and in many relationships, in all kinds of relationships, it has a very dramatic effect on that relationship. But if anyone is still unclear now, I repeat, as I said before from that bench: I respect every human being as a person. Everyone has the same dignity
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u155	Mr President! First of all, this speech by Mr Tanus. In fact, I understand perfectly well if the mothers affected by this change are upset about these speeches that have been made here. I understand that regret because they probably feel that they are not being treated as well as parents because of their sex or sexual orientation or because they have not experienced pregnancy and childbirth. I understand — if a representative Tanus has heard that someone has upset his speech — that it must be related to the fact that his ability as a parent has been assessed here from the toilet in the Chamber of Parliament. Representative Tanus referred with this internal adoption that it may not be as complicated and difficult a process. Well, it is too complicated and difficult because it would not be necessary: this same outcome could be achieved with less bureaucracy and less time. But even if this process is not difficult, the fact is that at the moment the child is without that legal security while this process is going through. Although the outcome is no different that after this internal adoption process he has two mothers legally, pending this process he does not have the same rights as other children, he does not have the same legal protection but has to wait for this process. For the rest, too, it seems necessary to clarify some of the details of this debate on this citizens' initiative that has taken place today. Several speeches have referred to the right of the child to father and mother, and this is always in my ear because I feel that the child has the right to care and love, and this amendment of the law is about ensuring the right of the child to his or her parents, both parents, at the earliest possible stage. This maternity law is needed to ensure that all children born in this country have the same rights from birth, regardless of what their parents represent in terms of their gender or sexual orientation or some other background that should not be relevant. This right to their parents right from the birth of the child concerns practical matters and various situations that can arise in life in all families: the right to meet their parents, the right to a living or an inheritance if something really bad happens. I would also like to specify how large a number of people would then be affected by this amendment of the law, because, as has been said, for the majority of Finnish lives this amendment will not affect in any way. Most Finns — fathers, mothers, parents and children — continue their lives in exactly the same way as they did to date, but this law applies to some female couples in this country. THL estimates that there are about 160 women in women’s couples who have been given fertility treatment each year. Last year 128 adoptions were made within registered families. A more detailed breakdown of this set of statistics is not available, but this number of couples is more or less between 100 and 200 pairs of these cases per year. Their lives, their daily lives, this change in the law would make it easier. It would save them time and effort from the demanding process of internal adoption, which involves many stages and which will eventually be confirmed by the court. It will save these parents the trouble, and it will also save society this unnecessary bureaucracy. I would also like to review the substance of this initiative. This draft law defines the corresponding basic legislation on maternity which is currently laid down by this paternity law, which has already been mentioned on several occasions. This maternity law and the change it wants to make apply only to women couples who have a child through fertility treatment and cases where paternity cannot be confirmed. In other words, a confirmation of maternity under this law cannot be given if paternity in relation to the child has been established, confirmed or confirmed in accordance with the paternity law — this law adopted last year. So this law really has no effect on anyone’s fatherhood, biological or otherwise. It is also recalled that the discussion has referred to parenthood as a very recent study of the University of Colorado, which covered as many as 19,000 scientific articles and studies in this area. Based on these studies, the researchers agreed that children of the same sex parents do not differ in any way from children of heterosexual families. This applies both to same-sex couples and to single-parent families, for example. Children are children and similar children regardless of their parents. So I have no idea why these references are made to the fact that women have different traumas behind them, which can then be reflected, for example, in a child or other. Sex or that orientation does not make anyone a better or worse parent, and it is not our place here to define it. It is also good to remember that this is the direction the world is going, that we have different families in Finland, and now we are trying to bring legislation into line with the situation that we have different families in this country and they are all equally valuable. Similar legislation is already in force in all other Nordic countries and in most Western European countries. I hope that this citizens' initiative will be adopted, and I am very hopeful that we will have a continuation of this as a citizens' initiative that has gone through Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u156	All right, we'll continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u157	Mr President! Children can only be born from a relationship between a man and a woman, and I believe that this leads to the conclusion that the child’s prime growth environment is a family of a man and a woman. There are certainly good and bad exceptions, there is no denying it, but, as has been said, the indisputable fact is that really only a child can be born of a relationship between a man and a woman. I believe that the legislators have made a mistake in the past when they have decreed that fertility treatments have started to be granted to individual women. This mistake is now being used as a reason for us to change this maternity law because of the fact that there are children born from such a situation. Similarly, this legislation, which makes internal adoption possible, has led to this. In fact, all the time there has been legislation, a policy that has always led this gender-neutral theme forward, and it has also been accompanied by the fact that these real aims have been concealed. It has always been said that this is enough, that this guarantees these rights, but it has always been a question of getting more arguments as it were for the next demand. It is always argued that when this is already the case, when this is laid down in legislation, why can it not be a little easier to do so and actually go further? In my opinion, the situation is that this citizens' initiative should not be adopted. We have very good legislation, which, moreover, makes it possible for this situation, which this citizens' initiative, however, is basically driving, that is to say, this internal adoption. I personally believe that there should be no such thing, there should not be fertility treatments for anyone other than those who can be considered to be the right word for the term 'treatment'. I do not understand it — and it is quite unusual — how an individual woman, if she cannot become pregnant as a virgin on the basis of the Bible, would then be treated with fertility treatments. I also think that this kind of thinking is an extraordinary thought, which is precisely what has been pointed out in this debate: a child is, as it were, something that everyone should have the right to have. I do not believe that this should be the case, but that children should be provided with those who receive them and that it is not the responsibility of society to guarantee that they can have children through fertility treatments. But then, when it comes to a heterosexual couple who, in principle, can have a child together within the framework of the laws of nature, I think it is all right that it should be possible to have a fertility treatment. And as far as this debate on democracy is concerned, the fact that there are important non-governmental organisations which are in favour of this citizens' initiative has been said that they are democratically elected and so it is quite certain that there are a lot of people there who, despite the fact that these people have been democratically elected to lead, are opposed to this citizens' initiative and are, for other reasons, involved in these organisations, not for this reason that they would like this citizens' initiative to proceed. And if this logic, which has been put forward in the debate, is followed, then just as much should you, who emphasised the democratic nature of these NGOs, now acknowledge that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is also democratic in the same way and you should point out here that such an important social actor as the Evangelical Lutheran Church does not, for example, advocate this gender-neutral marriage law that you advocate. That you have to be honest with me. Then, as far as the tone of the debate is concerned, of course, it may be that every choice of words in the Chamber is not quite right, but the fact that it is a bit like laughing at these positions, which nevertheless represent the current state of the law, the arguments that have led to this, laugh at them, belittle them, say that they should no longer be heard, you are doing these minorities a disservice, even if at some point you will get what you want with this legislation. It definitely leaves a lot to those who disagree for reasons of principle, perhaps not always able to choose their words in the best possible way. The fact that you, as it were, are demanding that there should be no such opinion does not serve the interests of these relatively small minorities, for which I believe you are now here to promote this citizens' initiative. Or are there other purposes, political purposes and not just things? I very much hope that we will also respect the views that defend the current state of legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u158	Mr President! Congressman Tanus is a doctor. I myself am an agrologist and a deputy judge, which means that we talk a lot about these issues on the basis of our education and work history. So, first of all, as an agrolog, I specialize in nature affairs, biology and normal reproductive issues. As a lawyer, I've been following court cases where parents fight for justice to their child. Those cases are absolutely terrible and you would not wish any child had to face them, when children too have to prove who is the better parent in one way or another. I really don't want anyone to get caught up in this. A child and a family should not live in uncertainty. That is why it is really important that proposals and laws are defined in such a way that there is no basis for any contradictions. It is usually a question of a man’s right to his own child in these disputes that are dealt with by the courts, so we cannot accept a law that undermines a man’s right to his child. However, the birth of a child is always accompanied by a man. The second parent must not be just a technical entry, as is the case if we go to the fact that very quickly, for example a month after the birth of a child, would automatically be a man out of the game. We can't go into this. You can't remove a man with a technical performance from something important like this. Fatherhood is a very long, lasting thing, as important as motherhood. I hope that this citizens' initiative will not be adopted and that the child will continue to be identified and recognised as having only one mother but can have two parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u159	Mr President! Two things. First of all, opinions in Parliament can be expressed and presented, but I would like them to be presented in a way that respects other people — people who have different life choices and conditions than we think are ideal. But this argument by Mrs. Tanus that this would somehow deprive women's children of paternity: in this bill the law on fertility treatments is proposed to be amended only in so far as the law in force treats only a woman and a man who live together in marriage or in the circumstances of marriage as a couple, after the change, the couple would also mean two women who live together in a registered partnership or in their own circumstances. In other words, this law would put the children of female couples born with fertility treatment, sperm donations, evenly in the same position as the children born with sperm given to heterosexual couples. It's really hard to see this coming from anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u160	Mr President! A few comments: The representative, Mr Tanus, apparently said that his speeches cannot offend the population because he says they are not offensive. Well, I do not think that this will solve the issue. If I correctly interpreted his speech, he also hinted that one must wonder to himself whether the bad feeling that he feels about what he says is really caused by speeches or something from his own past. Once again, I interpreted that he went out to psychologist the people he first put in a certain category with his own speech. He also referred to the opinions of leading Finnish children's organisations as being the opinion of only a few individuals and repeated this position on several occasions. I believe, however, that there is an organisation democracy in these large organisations such as the Mannerheim League for the Protection of Children, where the opinions of individual people are not promoted, but they look at a big picture. Representative Saarakkala criticised fertility treatments in general and stressed that children can only be born from a relationship between a man and a woman. Well, we all know that a relationship is not necessary for a man and a woman to decide to have a child — it only takes a moment. Furthermore, I would perhaps suggest that if the fertility treatments, which Mrs Saarakkala criticises, were somehow restricted to women on their own, then that would mean that children would then be sought for something else, just as this has led to fertility treatments in the past. Then there is a difference between people who, because of their physical qualities, need help in getting the child started. Mr Saarakkala also referred to the church. I don't think anyone has interfered with the rights of the church. However, here in this Chamber we govern secular power. The last thing I'd say is that nobody here has ever laughed at anyone's opinion. There are some positions which have been dismayed here, but we must certainly all assume that we respect each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u161	Mr President! I came back here again — it is so tight for two minutes on the spot — to comment on the previous speeches. Representative Parviainen raised the issue of large organisations. Yes, indeed, I would like it to be as Mrs Parviainen said, but unfortunately in the past year I woke up to other issues relating to children's rights. I have been dealing with more than one of these organisations, and there have been times when they have been amazed at their attitude towards matters that are very closely related to the well-being of children and children, or about the child’s relationship with father and mother. There was still talk of an offensive style — from which someone gets hurt or upset — and of my psychology. Well, there is more psychology in this room than apparently anyone understands, and in relationships and in the way someone’s speech is experienced and received, there is more psychology than anything else. I could only raise the question that if these previous speeches of mine have been felt very insulting, then would it be enough to describe what the speeches and the mail are that I receive from these speeches? You may sometimes stop to think about it even those who have experienced tonight’s talks offensively. The fact that children born with sperm donated to heterosexual couples still have the same situation as children born with sperm donated to female couples has been raised here. It's a completely different situation. A child born to straight couples has a father and a mother in the family, in whose care they can grow and develop. It was also mentioned earlier in the speech by the representative that we would have criticized here that parents are not as good parents, or that there was a suspicion that some parents were capable of parenting or that someone was better older than another. That is certainly not what I have brought up at any point in my speech room or from that place either. We haven't talked about who's a capable parent. Many people can be a very good parent, a very good breeder, be a very good person and a community that wants a safe, warm environment for a child to grow and develop. Right to father and mother: the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly states that the child has a right to his/her own parents in principle, and the context has clearly emerged and it becomes clear that this refers in principle to the right to his/her own biological parents, fathers and mothers, and, if possible, to the right of the child to know his/her own father and mother and, if possible, to grow up with them. It has also been said — and this is where the representative left off — that internal adoption would save parents unnecessary effort and so on. I therefore ask whether it is really — but internal adoption as a process is quite simple and fast — it is always good that it saves parents the trouble or the trouble of one parent. Having a child, having a child, raising a child in the family is often an effort, and it is precisely for the sake of that child and the welfare of that child, and I would like more attention to be paid to it in this kingdom too. This kingdom has become quite self - centered, a kingdom of egotists, as someone figuratively said. I wish that in this kingdom there would be more learning to think about others and to work hard for others. Parenthood, [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : Representative... - I'm sorry. You can go on. At 5 minutes, there's a way to tap to tell you that five minutes have passed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u164	Mr President! Representative Parviainen has made a fair point here, and thank you for that. I think it is a good thing that we can have a critical debate on the various values, but we can understand the positions of the other person. After all, we have a very different starting point as to how these conclusions will then be drawn in relation to the outcome. Personally, I believe that society should not promote or encourage the granting of fertility treatment to an individual person as an individual, but that it should be granted to a couple. And when, in my view, treatment can only be given to a situation involving a couple whose interaction could then result in such an offspring, it is only to such a couple that this fertility treatment belongs. The fact that it is possible for an individual woman to go to a bar, for example, to pick up a man and then get germ cells from a man and get pregnant is, in my opinion, not the kind of thing that should be thought of as, when this is the case, let us start giving these fertility treatments to individual women. The message of society should be that, in principle, it is better for a child to be in a family with both a man and a woman, both parents. Of course, marriage also comes into the picture here, and the safest arrangement for individual rights is that there will then be offspring in marriage. Then we can be sure that this is a real commitment and not, for example, that one evening will result in offspring,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u165	Mr President! I believe that this complex citizens' initiative of more than 50 pages shows how difficult it is to try to reconcile a gender-neutral ideology with a living reality in which each child will eventually be born of one biological mother and one biological father. Motherhood will be by birth or adoption, and this initiative seeks to reconcile the legislation created to recognise paternity and based on biological fatherhood with maternity in some places in a very clumsy way. I am not in favour of this initiative, but rather of strengthening the right of the child to the mother and father also in relation to the Fertility Care Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u166	Mr President! I'm here because it's so important. This is not a technical matter. There aren't many of us in this room anymore. Almost everyone who speaks for this citizens' initiative has already gone away, but most of us who are in the Chamber are those who have defended the dignity of motherhood from the outset. Motherhood is a very big thing, and it has never been achieved easily, and it should not be too easy to achieve it in the future. Motherhood, however, is so much more than mere parenthood. The parent is the guardian. Fortunately, the parent is often the loving mate of the child’s mother, regardless of sex. The spouse, the other parent, is also a very important person for the child, but the mother, the mother, is always the last to fight for the child in biology. I'm not disparaging a husband who loves another child, many of them are willing to do anything for the child. But a mother, a true mother, can only be one. Mom's a mother. Mother can't be shared.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u167	Mr President! I will defend the value of motherhood and defend this citizens' initiative. Raising children is an effort, that is true, that is what I was talking about in my speech, but I do not understand why we would demand the kind of effort that we do not require of the parents of heterosexual couples' children. It is certainly not the same as the kind of family a child grows up in. The essential thing is that children have loving parents, and that they are cared for. It is not the sex of the parents of the children that is essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-29-ps-92.u168	Mr President! There is a difference and it is also important who are the parents of the child. Representative Saarakkala raised important issues. Marriage, where husband and wife are committed to each other, is really the best place to have children. I would see that, in the midst of all this turmoil in society, it would also be good to discuss how we could instigate a marriage institution as an institution between a man and a woman in the sense that the child can grow and develop in connection with a biological mother and father. At least there's a chance. Fertility treatments have been referred to here many times. In fact, having been here in Parliament for over a year and in the midst of this turmoil, it seems that many things would be good to brighten up as it were. If we really think about today’s fertility treatments, it is purposefully creating more and more children who lack a father. We are creating, building fatherlessness and, in a certain way, great rootlessness, and I think it would also be good to think about whether it is right. I do not think it is right that we are deliberately creating children in this society who lack a father.
