ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u2	First question, Congressman Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u3	Mr President! We parliamentarians are in constant contact with the mold problems of buildings and the health problems they cause. Children and teachers in day - care centres and schools, nurses in health centres and hospitals, and ordinary people in their own homes suffer from mold - caused health problems. In Finland, so-called Homeblocks have been implemented, which have been used to find solutions to problems. This government made a decision not to continue Homestalking. No compensatory measures have been proposed either. Even in the Government Programme, there are no proposals for measures to address the mold problem. I ask the Minister in charge: does the government believe that the problem of mould has been solved when the government lacks a concrete programme to combat the problem of mould?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u4	Mr President! Mr Myller raised an extremely important issue in common. We know that during the last parliamentary term, among other things, the Audit Committee made a very commendable report and a proposal for action on this issue. I looked a little at what is going on with the proposals, what has been done there, and some of them have been put in motion. It was then estimated that all these problems of moisture and mould may amount to between EUR 30 billion and EUR 50 billion in the form of a repair debt. And then, of course, from the point of view of the government — I suspect that the question of the money side is now being asked — I would remind you that, even during the last period, when investments were made, they were one-off. I think he was on the side of the Ministry of Education, whether EUR 15 million or EUR 30 million, and the other side of the STM, which indicates that what the government has been able to do, even on the part of the previous government, is insufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u6	Mr President! Money certainly plays a crucial role, but there are other things. Here, at Parliament's reading, there is a bill on housing renovation grants at the best time. It provides for the removal of health benefit for people with mould problems. The health disadvantage allowance, which has been in use for ten years, has supported people who have been in financial difficulties as a result of health damage in their homes. In practice, the grant has gone to people living in difficult mould traps who have had difficulty obtaining support elsewhere. For example, the Housing Health Association has stated that the allowance is withdrawn: "The last straw will be taken away from those who suffer. The government argues that it is too difficult to implement the subsidy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u7	Mr President! Mr Myller's question could lead to a delusional impression that no further assistance would be given to the renovation of homes with mold problems in the future. That government proposal, which is before the committee, is based on the fact that at the moment we have about six different aid schemes for different renovations — there are people wondering where to apply for and what kind of support — and now the government is simplifying this compensation system so that we will have one law with two different compensation rates, and we will continue to be able to apply for aid for the renovation of homes with mold problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u8	Mr President! Indeed, the Parliamentary Audit Committee has gone through this very thoroughly and has also carried out external research. After all, apart from the fact that public feedback is very hard and is a major concern, these figures, which will emerge from that study, are alarming: we have nearly 200,000 young people in schools, in kindergartens, perhaps even more, who are in buildings with these problems of home and moisture every day. It is known that the same situation exists individually in many hospitals and also in services for the elderly. This situation is alarming — that study tells us that about half a million Finns are dealing with this problem every day. Now we have good experience in combating the shadow economy, in the prevention programme. Could the government consider making such a big mold repair and control program, where all, both money and these regulations, would be involved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u9	Mr President! I think it is important now that we also go through this report and those measures carefully in the government. Perhaps at least I myself would think that when this is a common problem and there are a lot of different players here — money is one point, one is construction regulations — then we have to think about who bears its responsibility. We have to take such an overall responsibility for this and see who does what. Each of us knows that municipalities are, of course, responsible for their own buildings, and many municipalities may be investing in other things, but they have not always been quick and quick to make the public buildings where these problems of moisture and mould have occurred, and they are everywhere. That this is now a matter of great importance for us to take joint responsibility. But on our side, on the part of the government, at least now I can say that we will re-evaluate these draft measures of the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u10	Mr President! Angry mothers arranged a demonstration and sent mail to us representatives because too many of our children spend their own working days in schools and day care centres where moisture and mold damage have been detected. I thank these mothers, they are on the right track. The truth is very regrettable at the moment. The municipal real estate renovation debt alone is currently EUR 5 billion, and the biggest safety problem in the municipal sector is indoor air. But what is the government doing at the same time? There is not a word about home invasions in the government programme, there is a reduction in the debt relief bill, and this health benefit is about to be abandoned. The Ministry of the Environment has also worked on a number of guides from the point of view of preventing and repairing moisture and mould damage, as well as various development projects. How can you see, Minister, how all these things are effectively put into the municipalities, so that they are actually useful in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u11	Mr President! Angry mothers are always on the right track if they defend the health of their children, and, as the questioner said, we owe up to EUR 5 billion in municipal schools, day-care centres, public procurement. I cannot come, Mr Taimela, your house or your apartment, and the government cannot force it to repair municipal property, but it is always the responsibility of the property owner. For example, in my own municipality, the concerns of angry mothers were taken seriously and a school with indoor air problems was hammered to the ground and a new one is being built. Since this period has not weakened the local government finances, as was done during the last parliamentary term, the municipalities now have the opportunity to seize these necessary real estate investments and go on to renovate. The indoor air is important for children, and it is also important for municipal workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u12	Mr President! This mold problem is a difficult problem for the health of Finnish people and also for the quality of our construction, and this has been going on for years and for several governments. It is important that these building controls are now brought forward. But there is also the current situation that many municipalities have gone a little too far to worry that, when the economy is balanced, it will not be possible to make the necessary investments either. The government would also have the possibility that right now, when you get a loan at even a negative interest rate, economic experts would recommend that you now invest in such solutions, which in any case need to be made. I know many municipalities where, for example, investments in schools have been postponed so that schoolchildren spend years in places with mold problems, and this is very harmful to children's health and teachers. Would it be possible now, Mr Orpo or Mr Vehviläinen, to add a separate budget to the budget, in particular to public spaces and schools, to speed up these renovations and encourage municipalities to invest, because these are worth doing now, and these should not be postponed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u13	I would ask you to take note of the fact that we are holding on to this minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u14	Mr President! In fact, when you said yourself about this local government economy, the local government finances are not as bad as they have been in recent years, and in part because of what Minister Tiilikainen said that we have not made cuts in the state subsidies for municipalities, and we know that there will be no new crisis municipalities. The tax percentages were raised this year less than before, and according to our view, local government finances are now in balance with 2019, until when action has been taken on the part of the state. But the message is that this Parliament sends a message to all municipalities that the property owned by municipalities is their responsibility and needs to be prioritised and chosen as to where the investment money will be spent, whether it will be used to identify healthy facilities for day-care centres, schools and other buildings. It is also the decision-makers themselves who make the value choices. I've been under the impression that in the last few governments we haven't found anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u15	Mr President! The renovation debt of municipal buildings has increased enormously and has increased further. There is a great deal of such moisture damage, and it may no longer be that way in the glove, because they have become so great. People who work in these premises suffer and suffer and then incur other expenses for their employer, which is the fault of their facilities. These temporary repairs may be temporary measures that cause more illnesses because of the use of sticks, some adhesives or other blankets that cause other problems with gasification. Would it not be wise to go for repairs that would be very thorough or would be completely refurbished and completed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u16	Mr President! The representative, Mr Semi, was quite right to speak on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u19	Mr President! I asked for the floor, because this Housewolves was launched in the evening school that I was leading at the time, and now, on the basis of the answers, I see that the same basic line that was adopted at the time is still in force. Nor should this house leave the message to the municipalities that when you expect state aid at some point, then you will only correct, but that the owner has the responsibility. And I will make sure from the government that this is the basic line that the owner has the responsibility, whether it is private, municipal or state, and the users and customers and tenants know that the requirements must be directed there. It is often the fault of the designer, builders and administrators, and it is then a matter between the owner and them which compensation may be sought. Now I think it is important that this message is clear that the owners have a responsibility. If the owners have no money to replace it, it will then be reflected in the value of its building. It's worth even realising. There's a new owner for it with the value that it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u20	Mr President! Just as Mr Vanhanen said here, that is, responsibility must lie with all parties, and especially with that owner. In this speech by Mr Vanhanen, this responsibility came from the builder and the designer. That has been the problem of not getting information from there from time to time, when the agreements have been concluded, no one has been able to get to the point of who has been responsible and building and making bad construction, so that they have accumulated in the arms of today's decision-makers, especially children and young people and staff, since today and in recent years. When I looked a little at those assessments by the Ministry of the Environment after the report of its Audit Committee from there at the end of the last parliamentary term — I think there was some evaluation until the end of 2015 — it also stated that there are very recent examples that the level of construction has not improved,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u21	Mr President! Day care centres, schools and nursing homes are jobs for children and adults. They spend a lot of time there, and they have to be fixed up so no one gets sick. Good results have been achieved, thanks for them, but there is still a lot of work to be done. For example, in the construction sector, rain protection is one of the things that should be made available more. The management and maintenance of buildings is crucial to what has been referred to here. In sports construction and sports halls, maintenance books were introduced to monitor the use of air conditioning, for example. Often, in fact, these indoor problems are caused by air conditioning and its improper use. You, Minister for the Environment, are also responsible for housing and real estate. Has it been thought that, at least on the public side, such a maintenance record system could be considered?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u22	Mr President! Thank you for a good idea, Congressman Heinonen. Every responsible property owner, if millions of investments or hundreds of thousands of repairs are made, will also make sure that the equipment is used correctly. Unfortunately, that is not always the expertise. I do not believe that there will be any more expertise here if we go through legislation to force it, but once again good practice should be learned and disseminated. In fact, that quality of construction is also important. Of course, building regulations set standards, but much also depends on the professional pride of the builders. In fact, I have the pleasure today to share these types of construction quality awards, one of which goes to the design stairwell and the other then to the very level of practical employees, which are examples of that through your professional pride
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u23	Mr President! It is good that the current health benefit was raised here by the opposition, because mold problems can really lead to both health and the economy, marginalising and leading, at worst, to suicide. The fact that this current model has been very difficult to apply for and bureaucratic is something that needs to be changed. I would like to ask the Minister: is it possible for us to develop more direct, timely and easier-to-reach assistance and support for such people who live in such homes so that we can give up such an administratively difficult measure?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u24	Mr President! In fact, it is the government proposal which has been mentioned here and which is now being discussed by the committee that is aimed at resolving this problem. In other words, instead of an earlier, very complex system of various grants, various grants are gathered under one law and two different levels of assistance. While this treatment of renovation grants is passed to the Housing Finance and Development Centre ARA, where expertise may be more appropriate than that of individual municipalities, I believe that we are moving in this direction towards making these renovation grants more accessible to those who need them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u25	Mr President! Unfortunately, this mold house phenomenon has grown to such an extent that economic and health losses are too great. There are a number of reasons for this situation: has been built in haste and hasty, risk structures have been used, there is not enough time for planning and construction, there has been insufficient control and maintenance. But there are also risks in the construction of new standards. Should the government finally take responsibility for this expanding problem? Could one of the solutions be to give greater control and control responsibility to building supervision over municipal boundaries with sufficient expertise?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u26	Mr President! Many municipalities have combined their resources, and cooperation between municipalities is carried out in building supervision to ensure its adequate expertise and specialisation. In future regional reform, building supervision is one of the measures which municipalities, if they so wish, can even be organised at the regional level if the reform progresses according to the drafts, but cooperation between municipalities will by no means be banned here either, i.e. municipalities can continue to organise building supervision in a regional or otherwise diverse way to ensure its expertise in order to ensure the quality of construction in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u27	Mr President! It must be much easier to prevent moisture and indoor air problems than to correct them, and it seems rather strange that no one in the government has mentioned the government's top project, which I believe is Finland of Healthy Houses. And the reason may be — when I myself have tried to find out from that Ministry of Social Affairs and Health who is involved, how this is being carried forward, whether this top-level project has gone into traffic, so it seems — that we are in the pits of departure, this is a Savon project: it is not ready to start. I would like to ask the government how this is done. The Finland Healthy Houses tip project is being taken forward, which parties are to be included in it, what are the stakeholders involved in this? And indeed, if we are to remove this correction aid, then yes — a supplementary question for Mr Tiilikainen — it would be good to know under which law we are going to go for help next. These people are desperate, trapped in a mold trap.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u28	Mr President! Let us repeat: there is no need to abolish repair grants, but to bring together the repair grants under many different laws, under one law, so that they are simpler to apply for and to continue to use. Then, with regard to this quality of construction, the healthy indoor air, it must be the starting point for all construction. That is the starting point when building regulations are being reformed. This is the starting point for promoting wood construction. This is the starting point for increasing housing production in all areas affected by housing shortages.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u31	Mr President! The annual cost of health damage related to moisture and mould damage was estimated at approximately EUR 450 million in 2012. This estimate therefore includes the costs of symptoms, illnesses, loss of working capacity and loss of work efficiency and productivity. No one is able to assess the impact of children’s illness on future health and working careers and health expenditure. President of the OAJ, Lukeka says that about EUR 1.5 billion would be enough to put in place the biggest problems in these indoor air problems at once, and he asks if after the fairway projects it would finally be time for schools and kindergartens to put these things in order. I would ask again what Mr Heinäluoma asked: would it be sensible, the government, now to put these things in order with a programme? I'll ask you that, Minister Orphan, you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u32	Mr President! So it is indisputable that this is a major problem in society, and as you well know, a number of governments have already tried to dismantle and resolve this. Unfortunately, the quality of construction remains such that this is renewed and new buildings are also having indoor air problems. But that is our approach now that, when the responsibility lies primarily with the property owners, that is, in large part with the municipalities or joint municipal boards, we have, from the government’s point of view, started to strengthen the local government finances, so that they are better placed to deal with these problems. I myself know, through municipal policy, that, for example, these mold schools have been tried to correct, as far as possible, what they have had in their own municipality, but it is equally true that our public finances are in such a bad situation that we cannot solve this now with state money. But we're going to do everything we can, like
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u34	Next question, Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u35	Mr President! Two government ministers have actually criticised the government's proposal for so-called emissions trading compensation. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Trade have talked about amending the draft law so that aid is targeted at investments that will build the future and will only be paid if the price of CO2 emissions increases, but there is no official information from the government. The State Economic Research Centre has found the Government's proposal unfounded, firstly, and secondly, that it means aid to heavy industry, which would be paid even if the company reduced production and jobs in Finland by as much as 49%. So I ask: is the government withdrawing the proposal and allocating 43 million to education and research, for example, or is the government even directing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u36	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Hassi, for a very well-founded question. The Government has acted in accordance with the Government Programme. There are different aspects to this: on the one hand, carbon leakage is a real risk and can cause job leakage, and that is a matter of genuine concern. On the other hand, compensation would be optimal to target the best projects for renewable energy and energy efficiency, which lead innovation and investment towards the future. This balance has been sought in the government proposal. We are now having a debate on this, including on the basis of the parliamentary debate, which is the best way forward in this area, and we will indeed be taking this debate forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u37	Now you have the opportunity to ask for answers with the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u38	Mr President! Already in 2013, environmental technology grew into a larger sector in Finland than the forest industry, measured by both turnover and exports and jobs. Aid should therefore be directed towards, for example, speeding up environmental technologies and in this way creating jobs and prosperity for the future. According to press reports, there is also a report coming from the Finnish Institute of Economics that unnecessary and harmful business subsidies have been increased in Finland, such as tax subsidies for heavy industry; instead, useful, future-building subsidies have been cut, for example, for research and development cooperation. In other words, some of what Mr Rehn has just said is what I can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u40	Mr President! As Mrs Zyskowicz rightly commented, this matter is now in the hands of Parliament and is being considered by Parliament. And, of course, with a very sensitive ear, we will listen to the views expressed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on the Environment and the other committees. When you refer to environmental technology, it is one of the top projects launched by the government, and we spend some EUR 30 to 35 million per year on energy support, and in addition to this year's top project support, EUR 40 million will be added this year, next year and the following year, and these will be directed specifically towards the development of renewable energy, energy efficiency, bioenergy and similar forward-looking innovations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u41	Mr President! Industry justifies the need for this government's EUR 43 million aid to keep production in Finland and prevent foreign investment, for example in China. However, this aid has been formulated in such a way that it is entirely determined by the way in which the electricity was used by the industrial companies between 2005 and 2011. In other words, X will receive aid of EUR 400000 for its size in the following year, regardless of how much electricity it uses, what kind of investments it makes or how new staff are recruited. In other words, this cannot have any impact on the profitability or margins of production. Similarly, if management makes its investment decisions on the basis of such relatively short aid, it is bad management. I would like to ask: is the government aware that this aid has no guiding effect and has no value for money that is already scarce?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u42	Mr President! Mr Vartia draws attention to a very important point in his question, in his speech, and that is that time is a very important factor here, a very important variable factor. What I mean is that at the moment, in the current period, the price of allowances is very low and the short-term risk of carbon leakage and hence of job leakage is, in my view, not very significant. This is another further reason for considering how to make this compensation more focused on innovation specifically promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency. On the other hand, taking into account the Paris Agreement, the EU's energy and climate guidelines until 2030,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u43	Mr President! This proposal is now being discussed here in Parliament, including in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and we, as a group, have sympathised with the government's proposal. It has been linked to the larger line of taking care of our industrial conditions and taking care of exports. That has been the starting point. But in the same breath we have found that all these business subsidies, including tax subsidies, must be transparent and reassessed, perhaps there in the mid-term review in the spring, and consider their new criteria that better meet such innovative needs. We too were somewhat surprised to learn that a new proposal would now be reconsidered — that is to say, to be brought here and stopped, brought here and stopped. Somehow it would be good if things were consistent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u44	Mr President! Consistency is indeed important, but the central issues of government, which must be consistent, are that we give priority to employment. Therefore, from now on, the decisions taken in the work of the government have been assessed and assessed in terms of their impact on employment. I am sure that the other side of this issue is that it is necessary to carefully assess the impact of this aid on employment and other forms of aid. Nor can we afford a risk game because some activity and some jobs are disappearing from Finland. But on this issue, the government will assess these effects on employment, assess the different models and will certainly have a wide-ranging debate on it and on that basis discuss with the parliamentary and committee groups whether there is a need to make some sensible changes. Otherwise, I think it makes sense to move towards a mid-term package of business aid once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u45	Mr President! Raising the processing rate and improving the quality of products and services is central to the future of Finnish industry and also employment. As a representative Hassi here well pointed out that the Finnish business support system has been criticised by many research institutes and economists for being too supportive of existing structures and too little support for industrial restructuring, new innovations and the growth and development of new sectors. This government has also cut funding for Tekes and higher education institutions, and at the moment public support for company product development and research is at a much lower level in Finland than, for example, in our neighbouring country of Sweden. What does the government intend to do to reform this business support package, and does the government have plans to raise the level of public R & D funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u46	Mr President! Mr Andersson's answers to two questions: Firstly, as regards the level of funding for innovation and research: It has been on the decline since 2011. This is not a healthy development, of course, and the savings that have been made have been very regrettable. That is why the government has launched an assessment of funding for innovation and research, as well as for university education, and we will be in the middle of the debate, i.e. next spring. For innovation and research funding, this will be done on the basis of an OECD impact assessment. We use it as an important knowledge base when we make this larger assessment. In the case of business aid: the most important, factually important, business aids fall into two categories, two categories,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u47	Mr President! In addition to this good response by Minister Rehn, we have set up a working group on taxation to consider the overall reform of business taxation, its various elements. Its timetable is for the end of January. I believe that one of the key objectives is to consider whether the reform of corporate taxation can encourage investment and investment in R & D, that is to say, to make companies themselves invest in R & D and thereby create a basis for new jobs and new innovations. This is absolutely essential. But these research funds and investments show what companies believe is worthwhile investing in Finland and making product development here. Therefore, all other government measures aimed at improving competitiveness and improving employment are essential drivers and drivers for investing in R & D as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u48	Mr President! Indeed, the original question of emissions trading compensation is before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and is in its very original form what the government's proposal originally was. This carbon leakage risk and the risk of job leakage. It has to be said that, to an increasing extent, imports of stainless steel from China, among other things, have increased from 1% to 26%. This compensation is paid because our competitors also pay compensation, and this is about competitiveness and jobs in Finland. It is good, as the Minister for Finance said, that in this context the maintenance of jobs in Finland and the impact on employment are now assessed. But I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: while we are now doing this cleaning up of business subsidies and an overall assessment of the same business taxation, are these two things?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u49	Mr President! In fact, this is a good idea, and I think it is worth looking at the business environment as a whole and more widely. When, as Mr Rehn has described, business subsidies are reviewed and business tax issues are discussed at the same time, it is certainly worth looking at them together. If, for example, sensible tax reductions in relation to corporate taxation can promote growth and investment and if there is a way, for example, of financing them with less company subsidies to support employment, then I think that these types of solutions are creative and sensible in this time period, and very openly the government is looking at solutions on this basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u50	Mr President! It is very important, as Minister Orpo said, that we also assess corporate taxation from the point of view of innovation and business development. It is a very important part of the government's overall economic policy, and it is indeed in the direction of sustainable growth and higher employment. Representative Turunen and representative Ihalainen drew attention to the state of play of the government proposal at the moment. I would reply to Mr Ihalainen when I was not able to comment just now — he said that we are going to stop — that I have played my age as a winger, and sometimes it makes sense to take side steps so that we can move forward and score more and more beautiful goals. The question now really is how best to combine industrial competitiveness, job security and the renewal of Finnish industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u51	Next up, Mr Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u52	Mr President! The government is unfairly targeting drug replacement surgery for one group of patients, diabetics. The reimbursement of patients with type two diabetes is being drastically reduced. For a lot of people, it's about big money. The cuts in medical expenses will not even save money if diabetics are forced to compromise on the treatment of their disease as a result. The money must also be sufficient for housing, food and clothing. Many long - term sick people are forced into a livelihood hatch. We know that untreated type 2 diabetes causes kidney problems, strokes, nerve damage, amputations and blindness, and these diseases are very expensive and are also very great tragedies for individuals. Mr Mattila, does this government understand the absurdity of this operation, and what is its human cost?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u53	Mr President! Commissioner, yes, pharmaceutical savings have now been proposed in this form, which includes the pharmaceutical sector, but yes, it is also one of the patient groups. We have certainly also had the same figures as the basis for how much these pharmaceutical savings will then affect in different age groups. But we must also take into account the fact that we also have other groups of patients with high medical expenses: What about that single mom with the asthma meds? You're worried about them too, aren't you? I believe that in future the system of reimbursement of medicines should be considered as a whole and new, yes, more equal, so that it does not concern just one group of patients, but could be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u54	It is now possible to ask for the floor by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u55	Mr President! The reason for the surgery implicitly suggests that type 2 diabetes is a self-inflicted disease. Firstly, this is not the case and secondly, it is an unacceptable basis for a reduction in the level of compensation. Lifestyles have been used to being considered a private matter in Finland and do not affect the kind of treatment available to each person. Finnish health care is based on equality of treatment for all. This is a reasonable and only right principle. It is impossible to measure the extent to which different diseases are so-called self-inflicted. Type two diabetes is far from always related to lifestyles, but it often breaks out for hereditary reasons. Mr Mattila, is the government going to change the legislation on reimbursement of medicines and also the legislation on a wider scale so that people are valued according to their lifestyles?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u56	Mr President! Are you suggesting a standard of living disease now? I don't. I'm not going to imply it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u57	Mr President! If you compare with other EU countries, then in Finland citizens themselves pay more for their health expenditure than in most EU countries, and you can say that these cuts, which you are doing now, are the ones that suffer most, especially those with a high level of income, and that they cannot possibly be regarded as socio-economically sustainable and not supported, they increase health inequalities and make it difficult for people with low incomes. I would be interested to hear that the government is now abolishing the sweets tax and making it more than EUR 100 million in the state treasury, would you be interested in developing such a health-based sugar tax to prevent obesity and, for example, diabetes, various public health disadvantages. At the same time, we would actually get money here in the treasury.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u58	Mr President! Yes, the government is under the yoke of Brussels with this sweets tax. We know in this Chamber that this is the case; the EU is guiding us here. But as far as the reimbursement of these low incomes is concerned, I would also like to say that the cap will remain unchanged, it will even decrease slightly. As I said in that previous reply, drug-free treatment should be promoted by all means. So it also involves living habits, exercise, diet and guidance — without which we will not be able to move forward in non-medicated treatment, and social welfare is also the solution. But this type of sugar tax solution, yes, I am personally in favour. How this can be promoted by the government will certainly remain to be seen here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u59	Mr President! After all, type two diabetes is characterised by a wide variety of diseases. Especially for older people, older age, it is accompanied by cardiovascular diseases, and this is often linked to low incomes. Mr Government, since you have already raised the cost of medicines, travel expenses and social and health care contributions by 30% in previous decisions, is it still necessary to impose this reduction in the reimbursement of medicines on people with diabetes, which makes it even more difficult for these people? Yesterday I was at an aphasia family meeting, and they asked why the government is constantly targeting these savings on people who are suffering when the income is already low. It's easy to go to a doctor for 50 euros with taxi rides,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u60	Mr President! At the moment, this savings package has been drawn up and brought to the attention of Parliament. It will then be up to Parliament to decide what happens to it. But, as I have already said, as a minister and a minister, I absolutely believe that the development of this system of reimbursement for medicines should be continued, and the focus should be on those low-income groups that use a lot of medicines. I am sure we fully agree on that. And I would also like to say that we still have those safety nets: the cap on medicines will remain unchanged, it will even decrease slightly. Cardiovascular diseases are not just associated with diabetes, and these adjunct diseases are then treated with certainty at the point when serious complications start to occur. Yes, I understand that the diabetic is already on insulin therapy, and the insulin remains a 100% substitute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u61	Mr President! Firstly, this sugar tax really had to be abolished by the EU. A substitute is sought for it, but it has proved very difficult to create a substitute tax. As far as these savings are concerned, it is very unfortunate that we have to make savings on different sides, but when the savings are widely collected within the government's EUR 4 billion savings programme, they hit big points. I am sure that ministers in their areas of responsibility will do a very responsible job and will seek solutions that are as fair and fair as possible. But it is quite clear that every saving is felt somewhere, and that is why we are doing everything we can to make Finland's economy grow and to get rid of this cycle of saving. And that can be achieved by having more and better employment and economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u62	Next question, Mr Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u63	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Vi vet redan nu att vårdreformens grundlagsenlighet kan ifrågasättas. Vi vet också att centralisering av vården orsakar oro bland breda medborgarkretsar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u64	Mr President! There are always grounds for waiting, there are always grounds for making decisions that should be made at a different, better time. To the extent that a change in social welfare and health care is being built, both in the case of special care and in the case of special services in social care, the law on the organisation of social welfare and health care, which is now in the consultation, and its law on enforcement, includes five co-operation areas corresponding to the current five erva areas. In any case, this need for joint action must be implemented specifically in the case of emergency services in relation to the future of special medical care. In this respect, it is justified to proceed in such a way that we are already able to prevent uncertainty, for example by eliminating uncertainty. At the moment, there is a message coming from different parts of Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u65	Now is the opportunity to ask for further questions with a V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u66	Mr President! At the beginning of the week, guidelines were published on the freedom of choice legislation for social welfare reform, which would provide service providers with a fixed remuneration based on the number of listed customers and possibly on the welfare risk of their customers. The authorities of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities have now assessed this proposal and consider it a risk of creating incentives for service providers to select customers. In addition, this welfare risk in particular is a very difficult concept to define. It could happen that freedom of choice would be completely out of control, and I ask you, Mr Rehula, how do you comment on this risk, and how does the government intend to move forward with this freedom of choice legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u67	Mr President! The presentation by the working civil service on Monday is one of the basis for the work that is now being carried on. One essential element — and in response to Mr Räsänen’s question — is how this funding model will become: how the regional authorities in charge of organising will finance the service providers in the future and what this model is based on need, the euro and the elements in it as a whole. We are working on this so that, in about three weeks' time, we are in a situation where we are more aware of this issue. But in the government as a whole, we have chosen the basis for transparency in relation to this whole change in social security and we have explained what can be said about these aspects, for example, so that these risk assessments can be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u68	Mr President! It is important that the freedom of choice under the social and health reform should move forward. This is a big change, and it is only natural that this big change should be prepared carefully and thoroughly, as the government is doing. Of course, it is essential that, when freedom of choice is exercised, it is in the interests of both the patient and the taxpayer. In other words, public authorities organise services but exploit the market for the provision of services. In its policies, the Government has set the goal of ensuring that small entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, too, are on the same track as service providers in social and health services in the future. Now I ask, Minister Ruhula: what is the government's contribution to ensuring that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs too?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u69	Mr President! A customer voucher will be introduced — in modern terms a service voucher, but it will become a customer voucher in a freedom of choice environment. This will also allow SMEs providing physical therapy services to be included in this package by a sole entrepreneur, a small medical centre. Secondly, people with disabilities in particular are being prepared to use the so-called personal budget, which will also make it possible to ensure that small businesses are involved. Well, then the third point relates to this whole package of funding for freedom of choice. First of all, Mr Räsänen, I would like to say that we must continue to ensure that equality between people is achieved. It will be one aspect of the constitutional review when assessing this whole. Secondly, this financing model must enable such
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u70	Värderade Talman! På Vasa torg var som sagt tiotunen människor Senaste lördag, Människor som är oroliga för sin framtid och framför allt för det att sjukhusets service kommer att försämras. Jag tycker att regeringen ska ta den ox signalen på fullaste allvar, och det ska också göras ordentliga språkonsekvensutredningar av den ox reformen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u71	Mr President! Why are we making a change in social welfare and health care? Because we need to get the costs lower than the service needs of the forecast that we have. Subject 2: We have a situation with regard to emergency services to ensure that in the future a sufficient number of professionals, women and men, orthopedics, anaesthetics, gynaecologists and so on are on call at points where they promise that this will actually happen. In addition to the figures that are of course relevant, we take account of legislation that is not changing: legislation on patients' rights, legislation relating to language law, and also the equality of constitutional law in access to services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u72	We will take one more question: Mr Leppä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u73	Mr. Speaker! In its programme, the government has ambitious objectives to correct our food balance, that is to say, our relationship between food exports and imports, with EUR 500 million. Yesterday we received excellent news that the work that has been going on for years and that everyone has been working hard has produced results and the possibility of exporting pork to China is opening up. This is very good news for our entire food sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u76	Mr President! That was indeed important news for the Finnish food industry that the export of pork to China will begin after a long effort. The first Finnish company has been accepted as one of the establishments supplying it by the Chinese authorities. Now, of course, we want to work in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry together with Finnish food companies and Evira, so that more Finnish companies can obtain its legitimate export status on the Chinese market, and not only in the case of pigmeat, but also in the future other products will be made subject to export licences. But of course this food exports are being made on a broad front on a different market. And fortunately, we have increased food exports in a number of directions and for many foodstuffs, and this is being promoted by the government's top project. It also brings Evira's work to the necessary certificates
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u77	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 22/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u78	Mr President! It is proposed to amend the law on improving the competitiveness of maritime vessels by extending the scheme to sea-measurement vessels. The aim of the amendment is to improve the competitiveness of Finnish marine survey vessels, as approved by the European Commission, in certain competitor countries as well. In addition, this proposal proposes to amend the Maritime Pensions Act to include workers working on a seagoing vessel. This would also make it possible to pay the subsidy in respect of the amount corresponding to the pension contribution under the employer's Maritime Pensions Act. This proposal is included in the State's draft budget for 2017 and will be discussed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u79	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 18/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u80	Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has unanimously drawn up a report on this law, a proposal to amend the Military Injury Act so as to compensate for the costs of open social and health care services provided by the municipality for those who are injured and ill as a result of the wars of 1939-45 and whose disability rate under the Military Injury Act is at least 10% instead of the current 15%, i.e. this limit would therefore be reduced to 10%. This amendment of the law would only be targeted at the war ombudsmen. After all, the services to be reimbursed by the state to the war-qualified are home services provided by the Social Welfare Act for housing at home, including housing services, mobility support services and the cost of informal care and outpatient care services. In its report, the Committee therefore stressed that home-based services can also contribute to the survival of war-qualified people at home for as long as possible — they are already very old — and can therefore also reduce the need for their institutional care. In most cases, their ability to function has already deteriorated due to a number of aging diseases. The committee also stresses the need to ensure that groups entitled to military and veteran benefits receive benefits and services as long as their needs for care and care continue. This was the firm will of the committee. After all, the development of war-qualified benefits has long been an integral part of veteran policy in the 21st century, and one of the priorities of the STM's veteran policy programme has been the gradual reduction of the limits of the disadvantage rates for community open services within the limits of the budget, and this is now a continuation of it. This will increase central government expenditure by an estimated EUR 4.7 million next year. Mr President! The committee's report is unanimous and we are proposing the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u84	Mr President! Finland 100 years is next year’s theme, Together — Tillsammans. We are currently preparing for this and, as early as last autumn, in the Committee on Finance, when we dealt with the section budget for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for this year, we raised these issues which we are now dealing with. Then we added 4 million to rehabilitation, to the government proposal, and then we made statements that were unanimously adopted by the Parliament, which required that in 2017 the amount of funds be set aside for the rehabilitation of veterans so that the money will not be caught that every veteran gets to the rehabilitation he deserves or gets home the services he needs. In this respect, the Government has responded to Parliament's message, and the draft budget now has an increase of EUR 20 million for this purpose. So, now that the sum is just under 38 million, it is a really big increase and, as we heard in the previous speech, there is still something new for the years to come. This is very valuable and important for this to happen. Then there is this motion, which is now under discussion, to change the law on military injury. This too is a long-standing issue, falling from 15% to 10%, and this is now going through with a unanimous motion. It is valuable that this should happen. I would like to say that the Finns of Finland are on the same front with regard to the index of this front supplement, and we want it to be corrected during the parliamentary procedure that this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u85	Mr President! The war has claimed its own, maimed and taken people. This government proposal is really good. This will replace those who have been injured or fallen ill as a result of the wars of 1939-1945 and whose disability rate under the Military Injury Act is at least 10% instead of the current 15%. In addition, the proposal guarantees the costs of the municipal home services and other social services facilitating home living in Sweden for those who have been injured and ill as a result of the Finnish wars 39-45 permanently resident in Sweden. This government proposal hopefully secures and helps these war-qualified and disabled people to survive and live at home, brings more home services and supports physical activity, that is to say, is involved in everything that helps people to survive in their own homes. It is good that, despite the strict financial discipline that we currently have in Finland, this is how it will be put in place and people who need help will get it. They have earned it, and we owe it to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u86	Mr President! The cost of social and health services and open services will now be reimbursed to persons in military service in the years 39 to 45 by reducing the disadvantage rate from 15% to 10%. This will bring more veterans of our wars into the service, and I am, of course, very much in favour and support of this proposal. At the same time, of course, the municipalities face a major challenge in providing home services for veterans, veterans' spouses and relatives, and in this field we still have a lot of work to do. However, in the past, very solemn speeches were made here on how this development is moving in the right direction. However, I dare say that when we received representatives of veteran organisations and the message of representatives from various parliamentary groups a few weeks ago, it was precisely the need for rehabilitation measures and the fact that the amount of rehabilitation aid is falling too fast in relation to this generation of veterans, which is about to leave for the final evening call. I would therefore like to draw the attention of the government to the issue of veteran subsidies, so that the money would be sufficient for the veteran rehabilitation centre and all the veterans would receive the service they deserved. For this reason, in the Government's presentations — as Finland approaches its 100th year — it is extremely regrettable and one might say that, in a certain way, it is a little shameful that cuts should be made to the national pension of our veterans in our wars. I hope that the government will indeed hear this — if you do not hear the voice of the opposition, then you will hear the voice of the veterans.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u87	Mr President! At this point, of course, few times it has come about, praises the government and says that this drop in the disadvantage rate is a very good thing, thank you for that. Unfortunately, this is not enough. We still have veterans of our wars. They will not be long, and now the rest of the time they have should be made human. For example, it would take help to turn as simple a matter as a bathtub, a bathtub, into a place to get there — a shower. They don't have the money to do that. The second point is this matter of veteran rehabilitation. There must be so much rehabilitation support that every veteran of our wars gets to the rehabilitation and recreation he needs at least once a year and their mates can get there. They have done such a glorious work for this country that a generation, even this generation, must have the opportunity to help them. It is not even a question of money, it is not a question of price; it is a matter of value, it is a matter of appreciation and value. Moreover, this seems to be very typical of us that it is only at a terrible late stage that we are going to replace what man has received because he has done certain tasks that this country has required. And now, for example, I'm going to say military service. If you are injured in military service — I suppose you will not be wounded, but you may be injured there — then you must have proper care and proper compensation and proper rehabilitation. Similarly, in the case of UN veterans: when a UN-faiter is disabled in serving in the Middle East, for example, he must be compensated for it. And in it you must also bear in mind the spiritual aspect,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u88	Mr President! It is nice to hear such a government proposal for once, on which all parties agree, and I would also like to thank the committee for this very firm report on the subject. We will certainly be living in the last days when this government proposal was at all possible to bring. It is very important that, for those who participated in these wars in the years 39 to 45, the 15 % of the current disability rate can now go to that 10 %. Of course, given the fact that the average age of veterans is already quite high, it could have been thought that this whole limit would have been abolished, but this is, of course, the right direction, that it was now possible to drop the disability limit to even this 10%. It is quite clear that this will help them survive through home services, housing services, mobility support services, informal care support and outpatient care. It has also been great that, at a difficult time in economic terms, it has been possible to make value choices in terms of investing in family and family care and also in the rehabilitation of veterans, which has already been highlighted in this debate. The debate has raised concerns about the index cut related to veteran rehabilitation services. That will certainly be corrected, as has already been said here by the representatives, and that is also what the group presidents have said. I attach great importance to this proposal, and I am glad that it came at this stage, as the number of veterans, however, continues to decline and decline.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u89	Mr President! This generation of ours has not only a duty but, I would see, a privilege to care for all that veterans who have served in wars among us today need. I think it is good to remember, and I would also like future generations to remember that the fact that without our veterans, without those who served in the war in time, this welfare state would not exist would not be forgotten. I see that all that is good at our hands is largely thanks to war veterans who have served in the war. Against this background, I personally believe that everything we can do must be done for them, for their well-being, which are still among us — as has been pointed out here, they really are not very many anymore. Last year I already talked about this 15% reduction to 10%, and I would see that it is a small gesture but an important gesture that it is now going to go to at least the 10%, and the front supplement, which has also been mentioned here, should certainly not be cut. If we think about the investments, those in euros that have been made in this small group that is still among us, then the amounts are really small. But in one way or another we could show them gratitude for what they have done for us, and I would see that these changes at hand are small, but they are justified. Services to be taken home, various forms of support for their spouses, their families and so on — this is something we must not forget,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u90	Mr President! It is true that there is not long to wait. As I said, we have 22,000 veterans, only 6500 in four years' time, and a thousand in less than ten years' time. At the moment, the number of war invalids is 3170, which means that the number is falling at a high rate. Their average age is 91.5 years. So this brings the disability rate to 10% instead of the current 15% and offers more home services to 600 war-qualified people. I myself, as Mr Kulmuni said earlier, have already made a second suggestion in 2013 that the so-called handicap percentages of the war ombudsmen should be abandoned and that the same services be provided to all the war ombudsmen. Today, those who have lived through their lives with the lowest disadvantage rates have even been completely excluded from support and services. We have the last moment to bear this debt of honour, and I am prepared to do so myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u91	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 20/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u92	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to provide for a law on competition law damages. The law would apply to compensation for damage caused by infringements of competition law, irrespective of the fulfilment of the so-called trade criterion requiring case-by-case consideration. It proposes to provide for the presumption of damage to cartels, the burden of proof relating to the transfer of the excess price and the limitation of the solidarity and liability of the undertaking exempted from the penalty. It is also proposed to provide for the impact of an infringement decision on the judgment on damages, the interest rate, the presentation of evidence, the limitation period and the effects of a friendly negotiation and settlement. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal with minor comments and technical amendments. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the background to this proposal is the European Parliament and Council Directive on competition law damages. The government proposal concerns the national implementation of the Directive. The Government's proposal proposes to exclude situations of competition neutrality under Chapter 4a of the Competition Act. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that further consideration should be given to the need to extend such a regulation to situations under Chapter 4a of the Competition Act and to assess whether, at the same time, the provisions on competition neutrality in Chapter 4a of the Competition Act should be clarified or clarified. Extending regulation as such to infringements of competition neutrality could reduce incentives to enter into negotiations on infringements of competition neutrality and jeopardise the functioning of the mechanism which has been considered to be effective. In its opinion, the Committee also draws attention to the fact that the prohibition provisions of the competition law and thus the proposed compensation regulation also apply to restrictions on competition from the public sector in so far as the public body acts as a trader within the meaning of the competition law. According to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the definition of limitation periods in the field of competition law damages is problematic, since knowledge of infringements of competition law can only occur years after the damage has been caused and the handling of competition cases at different levels of justice takes several years. The issue of solidarity is also a central aspect of the government's proposal. Under the law in force, the right to compensation will expire unless the action for compensation has been brought within 10 years of the infringement. However, if the claim is based on an infringement found by the Competition and Consumer Protection Authority by its decision, the right shall not be deemed to have expired until one year after the final decision has been taken. In addition to the existing regulatory limitation periods, the proposed regulation brings in a five-year period based on the underlying directive, which is calculated to run from the fact that the offender has been informed of the infringement, the damage and the offender. The applicant could avail itself of the longest alternative limitation periods. The Government’s proposal concludes that solidarity should cease in accordance with Article 19(2) of the statute of limitations. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its opinion that imposing solidarity in a way that is not compatible with the statute of limitations would lead to a further extension of the limitation periods. Therefore, the regulatory approach proposed by the government is a clear solution, as well as the fact that the suspension of all limitation periods must take place by way of an action. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also discussed the idea of bringing infringements of competition into collective action in its opinion. However, this directive does not require the introduction of a class action and is therefore not presented at national level. However, if it were to be considered in the future, such a regulation would require a broad impact assessment. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as I said earlier, has tabled only minor amendments, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously supports the proposal of the Board of Directors. the adoption of the draft law unchanged and the adoption of the first draft law amended. In this respect, the committee was unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u93	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u94	Mr President! This bill therefore concerns the law on the strengthening of the transsexual sex. This bill proposes a change in one aspect of this so-called transfiguration. It suggests that future infertility would no longer be a requirement for a person to be able to confirm his or her legal sex. The initiative corrects the transfiguration in one respect — it only eliminates this one clear and flagrant violation of human rights — but this desirable change does not alter the fact that the whole transfiguration requires reform so that human self-determination is realised. Transgenderity is a gender conflict in which a person does not feel that the sex defined at birth is right. Legal confirmation means the conversion of the gender marking of an identity card into the gender identity of a person. In the current situation, this requires a long medical assessment and a lack of reproductive capacity, full-ageness and a rather strange requirement for a stereotyped gender role to be fulfilled. At present, the law imposes conditions that violate human rights in terms of strengthening and correcting sex. Under current legislation, medical and legal gender correction is linked in the wrong way. Both the legal and the medical aspects of gender adjustment are involved, but it is not the legislator's job to force anyone into the medical process against his will, as is the case today. In order to legally establish a gender equivalent to that experienced by a person, a person is subjected to a long medical process that evaluates his or her sexual experience. In practice, then, someone other than the person himself decides what is the sex he has experienced. Mr President! As a result of the accompanying laws of the Equal Marriage Act, the requirement of singleness was removed from the requirements of the Translaw, and that is a good change. However, there is still a need for global reform, which must be based on human self-determination. It should be possible to confirm the legal sex by means of a self-declaration. This is the case in several European countries. The confirmation of the legal sex shall not be conditional on infertility or on any medical treatment, procedure or diagnosis. Nor may the opinion of the health care staff or any other third party be made subject to a condition. Each of us decides on his own body and his own identity. It is the right of every man, and it must be the decision of every man. The fact that Finnish legislation requires sterilisation of a particular group of people is echoes from dark times, and it is quite incomprehensible that this kind of human rights violation continues to be found in Finnish law. Finland has been repeatedly pointed out: for example, the UN rapporteur against torture has called for Finland to correct legislation in this regard, and the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has also pointed this out. It is not right that due to a person's gender identity, he should be forced into sterilization. This bill was being worked on by a group of MPs across party boundaries — thanks to them — and was signed by 84 MPs. I hope that the committee will take the initiative and bring it to the Chamber so that Parliament can vote on it. I hope that the committee will look at the issue from the point of view of human rights and equality, and I believe that, if this is done, the committee will end up supporting the amendment proposed in the legislative initiative. This is a flagrant violation of human rights and a violation of the rights of trans-human beings. It is a very simple question, and I hope that every Member of Parliament will answer the question himself: is it right that a particular group of people should be sterilized by Finnish law? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u95	Mr President! A bill amending Article 1 of the Transsexual Sex Act, signed by a large number of other MPs, is important. The bill proposes that the current requirement of reproduction in the law should be removed from the Transjugal Act. Although it may seem small from the point of view of some MPs and citizens, it is a significant and necessary change in the implementation of human rights. The SDP has been active in this issue and the transformation of the transfiguration was prepared during the previous Government term under the leadership of Susanna Huovinen, then Minister for Basic Service. We are in favour of the bill and also of a more comprehensive review of the transfiguration. We also submitted a written question to the government about a year ago, together with Mr Nurminen, Mr Razmyar and Mr Räsänen, and unfortunately it has become clear that the sitting government is not prepared to remedy this. That is why the present legislative initiative is necessary and I hope that it will be properly dealt with in committee. Last spring, Parliament adopted the legislative amendments required by the Equal Marriage Act, the so-called accompanying laws. In connection with this discussion, the requirement for a person’s singleness as a condition for the confirmation of the corrected sex was removed from the transfiguration. This change is good, but it is not enough. Today, the transfiguration must also be changed to respect human rights in other respects. At present, the law contains elements that violate fundamental and human rights, of which the demand for gender-repairing infertility, or sterilisation, is the most problematic. The Committee on Legal Affairs also drew attention to this issue in its report on the accompanying laws of equal marriage law. The working group on the subject of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has already proposed amendments to the trans-law as early as May 2015. The shortcomings in the fundamental and human rights aspects of the Translaw have also been highlighted by the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and by the Special Rapporteur on Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment of the UN. In addition, at its General Assembly in Moscow in 2015, the World Medical Association, representing more than 100 countries and 10 million doctors, stated that transgenderity is not a disease or disorder and that everyone has the right to determine their own sex. Almost 60 national medical associations committed themselves to putting an end to behavioural and forced treatment. Finland requires gender-corrective sterilisation and a psychiatric diagnosis of transgenderity. It should therefore be open in its entirety, and the reform of the law should be based on the right of self-determination to correct gender. This would, however, require proper preparation, and I hope that the matter will be put on the agenda of the next government when, unfortunately, this current government is not ready to take it on its list. The bill now in the referral debate deals only with the removal of the reproductive disability requirement from the current law. The public authorities must safeguard fundamental rights and human rights. The demand for reproduction is not in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and the other international human rights obligations of our country. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the right of transfiguration persons to the protection of their personal integrity and privacy as fundamental and human rights requires the removal of the requirement of infertility from the transfiguration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u96	Mr President! Man is a physical, mental, social, spiritual entity. In this connection, a person is either a man or a woman, a girl or a boy. Deviations from this are very, very rare, only a few individual babies are born each year, a few individuals, of whom it is not immediately possible to say for certain which sex this person belongs to. Instead, there are members of different identity minorities in the kingdom. These also include those who, for one reason or another, feel that their bodies are different from what their minds tell. In this regard, it would be very, very important to stop at a good time to think about why this is, why this is the case. "It is born into the wrong gender" is too simple and sophistication. What is the legal sex? What is the legal sex? This is yet another new definition that is being introduced into this kingdom. In recent times — and it seems to me that we are also facing — we have had a whole series of concepts whose content is being changed and yet very discreetly, in secret. Marriage: man and woman — this is how it has always been understood. Gender: male or female — this is how it is understood. How many parents know that there are already guidelines for schools, that there are genders if there are how many or that it is a continuum? This initiative to strengthen transsexual sex: As much as I would like to support Mr Modig's initiative or the initiative supported by Mr Marin from Tampere, I would also like to support it. Unfortunately, I cannot support such an initiative. Like I said, man is a whole thing. A person cannot be separated from a single part, defined as having a certain legal part. Then if someone experiences and wants to go into that long and varied process, sex change, it is a long process, and it goes on in books, then the covers are replaced by sex, marked as a man as a woman, a woman as a man. But that in the first place, according to what your knowledge is, you should leave with your own notice to mark and change sex into another official document... In my opinion, having been a doctor for over 25 years and met with all kinds of citizens — as early as the early 1980s, I have met the first trans-humans and I share my office with one trans-humane — it seems to me that today these issues are being dealt with far too lightly so that their own knowledge can be determined, and that, on the basis of that, they can also change their gender in books and covers. I see that it is far too light to deal with humanity. As we have said in this initiative, 'everyone has the right to respect his or her private and family life', 'everyone has the right to personal freedom and integrity', 'the right of an individual to live his or her own life without undue interference from public authorities or other third parties'. In Finland the authorities do not interfere, but then if the person himself wants to go into this process, change the sex, then it is a different matter, and it should certainly not be the case that his own declaration changes the so-called legal sex. In the future, care must be taken to ensure that the one who carries the child, carries the child in his body, and who gives birth is a woman. I know that there are already those in the kingdom who would like to make history and be marked on books and covers as the first so-called men to give birth, but I am in favour of maintaining some sort of clarity in this kingdom and continuing to be a woman who gives birth in Finland. There is also the fact that you are of age in this initiative. All in all, I think that this translation should really be looked at more comprehensively and in much depth and in greater detail. For example, the adult age is 18 years. If we know that the brain, for example, will develop until the age of 25, why do you have to go back to the age of 18? Those with children know when teenagers are bubbling: puberty can bubble at its worst in 13 to 14 years, it can bubble at 15, 16 and even 17 years. If, at this point, we can start to change the sex, then I ask if it is a responsible action. I think it is most important for those who feel that the body is something other than what the mind says, to pause over time to think about what it is about, what it is about in childhood, what it is about in youth — what it is about. If we think about the well-being of anyone, it would be good for each of us to think about what we are doing, how we feel about what it is, and if we start to make changes that are far-reaching — well, not necessarily those that cannot be changed back — and if, during puberty, we start to act, to do something that can calm down within a few years, I do not think that it is responsible. The brain will develop until the age of 25. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : Reply, RepresentativeModig. I'm sorry, I thought Congressman Tanus had already stopped when there was silence, but no. Then you may proceed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u99	Now the answers, first Mr Modig and then Mr Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u100	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Tanus that you therefore believe that one particular group of people can be sterilised in Finnish law. I'm totally upset about that. You spoke in the same way that in your opinion transgenderity is due to some kind of trauma, something negative. Personally, I see that it is a quality that a person can have. In my opinion, it is not our job to define and tell people how to live, but to look at the world we live in, and to guarantee all people a decent life, the same human rights for everyone. You also raised concerns about how to deal with adulthood. Teenage, puberty, is the time when we all think about ourselves, our own identity begins to brighten up and understand more about ourselves. It's the same for transversals. It is terribly important that transversal youth can be identified and recognised as such as they are in the turmoil of puberty that we have all been through. It is of paramount importance to their well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u101	Mr President! In his own speech, Congressman Tanus pointed out that transgenderity would be like a moment of mood or such a momentary question. Yes, at a time when a person goes to fix his own sex, it is certainly a matter of thought. These situations are by no means easy, and it is totally unreasonable that Finnish legislation is still at the level that we are calling for sterilisation, infertility, for this group of people. And if you have listened to my own speech just now, among other things, the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and the special rapporteur for torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment of the United Nations have pointed out to Finland that our legislation contains such a requirement, which is by no means sustainable from the point of view of human rights or should be in the future. So that's why this bill has been put in place and that's why they want this change here. This is an unsustainable situation from the point of view of human rights, and this situation must now be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u102	Mr President! May I ask if this is a one-minute or two-minute response? Mr Modig, I very much agree with you: a decent life, the fact that there are many things that come up during puberty. On the other hand, we all know that trans-humans or those who are thinking about such a process are not in any way a homogenous group. There are many different kinds of people there with many stories. Some have also made a very clear decision and are moving forward, some are thinking about it for a very long time. We also know that there are cases that have gone through the whole long process, have lived through it for a few years and want it back, because it has unfortunately not been a closed decision for everyone. And no one demands sterilization, but if a person goes into this process, turns a man into a woman or vice versa, this is part of the process to which a person goes voluntarily.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u103	To that end, Mr Modig's reply, and then we shall move on to the list, because there are only a few speeches here and those who have asked for them are those who have also asked for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say to Mr Tanus that you understand that you are in fact in favour of making an irreversible change for yourself. We are suggesting that there is no need for infertility, that there is no need for any medical measures to enable a person to obtain a social security number corresponding to the sex he has experienced. You're against it. You want us to go through an irreversible medical change. Have you considered that your view is somewhat contradictory?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u105	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u106	Mr President! Finland in 2016: We still have human rights problems, things that need to be corrected. This is reading one. This is the subject of a proposal from the MPs in a bill to change the trans-law to the extent that it requires forced sterilisation. Yes, you heard me right. Finland in 2016 shall: There is a small big issue here, a small one in the sense that the population concerned is certainly small, but large in the sense that as a human rights issue, as a human being, as a question of justice, this affects all of us — the whole Parliament, all of us Finns. This is also the issue of the rule of law in the sense that Finland has indeed been made aware of this issue. They are not trivial comments, lightly down the sleeve, but serious comments on human rights that we must respond to. President! The first signatory of this bill is Mr Silvia Modig. In addition to him, 84 other MEPs have joined this initiative, including those who have signed. This initiative therefore calls for the removal of the requirement of infertility to strengthen belonging to the opposite sex from the current law. It is quite unacceptable that, under the current law, there is a need for the correction of gender, in addition to other criteria, for infertility — it can indeed lead to medical sterilisation. And this is a demand that goes very far into individual rights, very far into humanity, at the heart of private life. So it is a question of humanity, it is a question of our perception of equality between people. And it is quite clear that the demand for infertility cannot be included in the human concept we share in Finland, which we regard as human rights and humane. It is also a question of human rights obligations in Finland, and this requirement of infertility has not been able to provide any significant, weighty arguments. President! In practice, the initiative would be very easy to implement in legal terms — it would mean removing one sentence from Article 1 — i.e. clear and unproblematic, easy to implement, but a big, significant milestone in our country's human rights policy. The position of the Social Democrats on this issue is clear and consistent: at the Conference of the Party in 2012, we have decided that the party will endeavour to remove the demand for reproductive disability from the Transjugal Act. President! I now propose that this initiative be decided to send a report to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs should give an opinion. President-in-Office, I will make this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u107	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Modig for a very important initiative which I myself have signed. Finland has indeed received comments from a high level on this issue, but the Ombudsman for Equality and Equal Opportunities have also drawn attention to the fact that the government has not yet taken steps to reform the law. The requirement of incapacity for reproduction violates the right of trans-human beings to equality, personal integrity, private and family life and deeply violates the right of self-determination. The law should always protect a person, not be against a person. This bill concerns one group of people and does not affect anyone else's life in any way. For trans-humans, this bill, this issue, is a very big thing, this is the size of life. This is also a human rights issue. Mr President! It is precisely because I consider this to be such an important human rights issue that I hope the committee will be in favour of this bill and support the proposal made by Mrs Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u108	Mr President! I would also like to stress to everyone who listens that in Finland no one is forced to sterilise. I have done various sterilizations, most of them for women but also for men, and I can swear that no one in Finland will be forced to sterilise. Then if anyone wants to go into the sex change process, from woman to man, the man is the one who does not give birth or carry a pregnancy. So if someone voluntarily wants to go into the process of changing sex from man to woman or woman to man, this is part of the process just as it involves an interview, it includes studies, it involves the reception of various doctors. If someone is going to have some type of surgery, to take care of something, it often includes, for example, blood tests or some imaging, and so on. A certain process involves certain things. One of the things about gender change is that you leave, for example... For example, pregnancy, pregnancy, and childbirth remain in the role of a woman, and then if you want to become a man, it does not include pregnancy or childbirth. In other words, everyone goes into this process of sex change, hopefully, deliberately and completely voluntarily — we have the law to say that such a thing should be ensured — and if this process goes voluntarily, it involves sterilisation. But I still want to underline: in Finland no one is forced into sterilisation and no one does sterilisation against the wishes of this person.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u109	Mr President! This is something that Mr Tanus has to take up. The purpose of this bill is precisely that if a person wants to correct his gender, he will no longer be sterilised, and that is precisely what we are trying to do here, but you are opposed to it. In your opinion, people must continue to experience a shocking sterilisation because they want to correct their gender according to how they feel about themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u110	Mr President! This is a fundamental right, a fundamental right: a person chooses his own body. When you speak, Mr Tanus, that no one is forced into sterilisation, that it is always voluntary, it contains the idea that you do not understand that these people have no choice. They feel their gender is different from the one that has been legally defined for them. Of course, each of us wants to live our lives by his own identity. Each of us wants to be able to live his life as he feels right in his own heart. If we do not understand something, Mr Tanus, it is not for us to condemn it. In this world, thank God — excuse me now, this parable has nothing to do with you — gender is changing all the time as understanding grows as knowledge grows, and the idea that there are only two completely stereotyped genders is a very outdated concept that is not supported in any way by the present perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u111	Mr President! I, too, am a little confused about these speeches by Mr Tanus, but this amendment to the trans-law, which Mr Modig has tabled, is therefore about amending one section and removing a trans-national issue, which, for example, during the last term of the government was the preparation of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which was then promoted by Mrs Huovinen, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. So this period has already seen one amendment of the law to the transfiguration. This was done when the accompanying laws relating to equal marriage law were discussed, and the requirement of singleness, which was also very problematic for human rights, was removed from the Transjugal Act. Unfortunately, at this reading, we were unable to tackle the issue in committee when the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights adopted a report on the subject, namely the requirement of the trans-national law on infertility. It was considered to go beyond the scope of these accompanying laws, but it is still the case that we have a significant human rights problem in the legislation, which should be rectified as a matter of urgency in order to remove this requirement of infertility from the law. So this has been a long preparation already during the previous term of government. It has been clearly stated that this is a flagrant violation of human rights, which is what we have in the legislation at the moment, and now this bill seeks to remedy the situation and, for these people, to make this situation in some way sustainable, so that the need for sterilisation is removed from the law. In other words, I would like to see this issue, when it is so clearly a violation of human rights, agree that we are not in favour of such a policy, but that we want to correct our legislation in order to respect human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u112	Mr President! I think the motion for a legislative amendment tabled by Mr Modig is justifiable. When I think about this matter, what is happening to a large extent, we must remember that man is the whole thing that governs this matter. That sex change when a person feels that he is in the wrong body is completely human to me and acceptable. I know these people, and they are happy in their position and very tolerant. They have an understanding of others, and always wonder where it is our understanding, if we start to do such legal obstacles to such things, like having a child or something like this — it feels bad. When you think about the position of a child in general, the most important thing about it is that the child has a good and orthodox upbringing, where he is loved and raised to good manners and tolerance that these people have had. I think it's much more important than this, that the law prevents having a child.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u113	Mr President! Indeed, some transhumans who have gone through the process are very well balanced and most of them very pleasant people. I have the honor of knowing people like that as well. But it is also worth remembering that especially during puberty, young people feel and experience a great deal of things. Then there is a dream and a desire for one and another change, and all those who think and talk about transmigration, such as those in puberty, have not really thought it through. And in that sense, this is a much more diverse, broader, broader and deeper question than what is being raised here. When it is said that the present perspective is that there are more than one sex, and when today, to what message has been sent out of this house, what is considered to be a gender, sexual identity, gender expression and also what you might want to think about, then the concepts will be re-created in such a way that many old, former concepts are placed in the same basket. That confusion has already begun, for about a year now in this kingdom it has been fed that there are more than two genders. Last weekend I met a long-range youth worker with a very large network, and none of these things we had talked about, but I asked him how your work was, and he said that I was in a very old job, but what has now become new, we keep getting young people who don't know what they are. And he repeated that they don't know what they are. So when such confusion is fed among other things that the genders would be more than two, it is certainly an old philosophy repackaging, and it will not result in any good. We have young people who are already sick, and if they still have to choose for themselves,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u114	Mr President! I am sorry that I have asked for an additional floor here. I did not notice in my speech that I too am in favour of this matter being referred specifically to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This has previously been there as a whole. I myself sit in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I see that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in this situation, specifically with regard to the amendment of the trans-law, would be the committee that should report on this issue. I understand that this entity has previously been specifically under the auspices of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u115	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u116	Mr President! This is an issue that seems to be always talked about, especially during the summer. It is a legal initiative that funds from the collection of canned beverage containers, i.e. bottles and cans, i.e. pledges, are tax-free income for the recipient. This is not the case with current legislation, and people feel that it is very unfair, and from time to time this arises in public debate. This is therefore a bill for the amendment of Article 89 of the Income Tax Act. President! Of course, the Income Tax Act is based on an adequate scope of the tax base. Taxes must be collected on legally acquired income regardless of the source of income. However, there are exceptions to this, and one of the objectives of this exemption is to support small-scale or generally considered beneficial earning activities. According to Article 89 of the Income Tax Act, income from natural products, such as income from the picking of berries or income from the supply of infant milk, is not taxable. So there are exceptions of this kind. However, according to the Income Tax Act, income from the collection and surrender of drinking containers, i.e. bottles and cans, is taxable. The law cannot be considered appropriate, President, because, as a rule, it is understood that it is a very low income. In addition, it should be noted that the proceeds from the refund scheme, i.e. these deposit payments, are regularly not notified to the tax authority. It would therefore be logical for the law to be amended in such a way that revenue from the collection of bottles and cans is also exempt from tax liability. It would also communicate the support of society for recycling and the collection of drinking packages that consider the residential and natural environment to be clean. We can certainly all agree that those who collect bottles and cans from the natural environment, parks or urban areas are doing us all a favor, an eco-doing, by keeping the environment clean. They deserve the proceeds of returning these bottles and cans to themselves, and this tax exemption should therefore be governed by law on the basis of an existing fact. This would not have any impact on public finances, President, but would clarify the legislation and make it easy to implement it by adding to Article 89 of the Income Tax Act the income from the return of drinking containers to the tax exemption. This, President-in-Office, would certainly also be the dismantling of the standards that our country's government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, has wanted to make a sound and say that bureaucracy must be removed. That would certainly be precisely what this would be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u117	Mr President! The government has often spoken in this Chamber and outside the Chamber about the need to dismantle standards and reduce red tape. It is regrettable that there are now no representatives of the government party present in this Chamber when Mrs Tuppurainen presents her bill, which specifically provides a way of breaking standards in a situation where they have not been complied with in practice until now. Among other things, Petri Manninen, Senior Inspector of the Tax Administration, stated that he did not remember any of the cases where the person had been subject to an exorbitant tax due to non-notified bottle collection income. The Tax Administration has also stated that this is not very high on their priority list, i.e. in practice no tax has been paid on these revenues to date. It would now be possible to correct the legislation precisely in the direction that it would be in line with this already existing practice, that is to say, we could dismantle the standards in this regard. Moreover, this bill by Mrs Tuppurainen is quite worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u118	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-13-ps-100.u119	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen present! The purpose of this bill is to improve the protection of the weaker in matters relating to working life, equality, equality and the environment by extending the right of collective action. For ordinary people, trial is a difficult and often expensive process. At present, a class action is only possible in consumer matters. This initiative suggests that a group action could also be brought by an Ombudsman for Gender Equality, a Non-Discrimination Ombudsman and a registered association with the aim of controlling employees' interests or influencing environmental issues or human rights issues accordingly. The internationalisation of working life and the increase in the number of short-term and shredding jobs have reduced the control capacity of health and safety at work and other authorities. The threshold for an individual employee to bring an action against an employer is large. On top of a difficult, slow, uncertain and costly process, the fear is of being blinded and of losing a job. The independent right of action of trade unions would be an important contribution to the defence of workers' rights. What kind of cases could it be? Let me give you an example: all the bureau secretaries are women, and most of them work in a fixed-term employment relationship without justification. The secretaries are dissatisfied with the situation, but no one wants to challenge it because they fear that they will lose their jobs. In such a case, the trade union or any equality organisation may bring an action on behalf of employees. Another example: A number of foreign workers arrive in Finland as cleaners. They have had to pay a large amount of money to get to Finland and have not heard of Finnish working conditions. It turns out that the salary is only a few hundred a month and cannot live with it. They fear for their relatives who remain in their homeland and that their work permits will not be renewed. In such a case, the trade union may challenge underpaid and illegal brokerage fees on behalf of cleaners. This initiative would also give human rights organisations an independent right of action. In this way, for example, an old-age organisation could bring an action if municipal services for the elderly are not sufficient. Or a disability association could bring an action if legally guaranteed assistants or other support services were not granted as they should. An independent right of action for environmental organisations would enable an action to be brought, for example, in order to compensate for the disadvantages caused by the operation of the mine and, above all, to prevent it. The right of action of organisations would complement the supervision of the authorities, but would also support the prevention of disputes. Instead of monitoring honest entrepreneurs and a paper war, abuses would be reduced by increasing the risk of being brought to justice. A wider right of action would prevent unfair competition and would therefore also be in the interests of the business community. From an international perspective, Finland is seriously behind in the use of collective actions. In Sweden, for example, the scope of the collective action is unlimited, as in the United States. In Norway, any organisation whose purpose is to protect or promote a matter may bring a class action. In Denmark, too, the legislation is equivalent and in Iceland, too, collective actions are permitted. In other Nordic countries, many EU countries and the United States, there is a much wider right of collective redress than we do in Finland. However, the collective right of action is not alien to Finnish legislation either. We have the possibility of a class action in consumer matters, labour court proceedings and business associations have an independent opportunity to challenge an unfair contractual term. The autonomous right of action of the organisations set out in this bill would mean that the association could also bring an action, regardless of the party's will. This is justified because, for example, a person working temporarily here may owe a job intermediary a debt and therefore dare not defend his rights. It is also not a foreign matter in our legal system to pursue an action without consent. Those who oppose the extension of the scope of the right of action have argued that actions would be brought for the purpose of bullying, which would increase the costs for the business community. However, there is no evidence of this in other Nordic countries. In the preparation of the group action law, the reduction in foreign investment was also unnecessarily intimidated. Instead of threats, the extension of the right to collective redress would have significant positive effects. The protection of the weaker and the legal security of ordinary people would be improved both in terms of working life and equality, equality and the environment. The economy would benefit from less unfair competition. In addition, the resources of all parties would be spared by dealing with a single action instead of several individual actions. I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will take this matter up and ask the Ministry of Justice to respond to it.
