ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 3/2016 vp. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The report is presented by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Kaikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u2	Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that the new Development Policy Report provides a good basis for continuing Finland's development cooperation and development policy. According to the report, Finland's development policy continues to be based on Finland's fundamental values and principles and the main objective is to eradicate extreme poverty, reduce inequality and poverty, and implement human rights. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the fact that, from the point of view of assistance, thinking has moved more towards solidarity, equality between states and cooperation. Trends in global development, such as climate change, population growth, refugees and increased migration, are phenomena that affect both those providing development aid and those receiving it, and to find sustainable solutions to them requires the involvement and input of all actors. The aim of the report is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of development policy by focusing its activities around selected priorities and countries and organisations in the target countries and organisations in the right direction. However, the time has yet to tell, Mr President, whether the centralisation that has been chosen will produce the desired results. In this respect, the report on the implementation of the guidelines and the results of Finland's development policy will be important in the latter part of 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs agrees with the report's statement on the importance of development policy as part of Finland's foreign and security policy. At the same time, Finland strengthens its foreign policy and economic position and its international influence when participating in the resolution of international problems. The Foreign Affairs Committee... Mr President! In this unanimous report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the fact that Finland's development policy programme is now for the first time a Government report. It gives us the opportunity in Parliament and in the committees to discuss development policy in a broad sense, including expert consultations. The report procedure is also a good way to bring political guidance to development policy at a higher level than today's policy. In the Committee's view, the continuation of the report once in the parliamentary term is therefore justified in order to enable and ensure political guidance. Mr President! Unfortunately, substantial reductions in development funds make it difficult for all sectors to achieve the objectives of active development policy. The additional savings of EUR 25 million announced in the spending limits panel will make this work even more difficult. In particular, in view of the decreasing budget, the development policy report is a broad and ambitious package. It still requires considerable work to be done at the implementation stage in order to achieve lasting developmental effects. Although development funding is subject to savings during the spending limits period, we emphasise the long-term target of 0.7% of GDP. This has also been stated in the Government Programme. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs also calls for the identification and exploitation of Nordic cooperation in development policy. Increasing cooperation between the Nordic countries can also safeguard the opportunities for influence in the context of smaller budgets. Mr President! It takes time and long-term work to achieve real developmental effects. In view of the long-term nature of development cooperation, the Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore welcomes the fact that the report is firmly linked to the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030. Its objectives extend to 15 years. We also consider the focus areas of the report to be correct. In addition to these, however, we stress the importance of the following themes: reproductive and sexual health care, youth unemployment and tackling it, in particular through education, the development of the tax base and tax collection capacity of developing countries, and forestry projects. Finland has significant expertise in these themes. They also play a key role in achieving lasting developmental impacts in the target countries, which is why it is natural and also necessary to invest in them. In view of the scale of the ongoing refugee crisis, the Committee on Foreign Affairs believes that the consideration of refugees and migration in the report is justified. We stress in particular the importance of supporting political processes in the countries of origin and national reform projects as means of resolving crises. In this work, mediation and conflict prevention are activities in which the Committee on Foreign Affairs sees Finland and Finnish non-governmental organisations as having special opportunities for action. It is important that a sufficiently rapid and flexible financial mechanism is found. Mr President! Finally, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses the important role of Finnish NGOs in development cooperation in Finland's development policy. It is also important to make use of the expertise and contacts of non-governmental organisations in their activities towards developing countries. Developing cooperation with immigrants living in Finland is also important in this respect. Mr President! I would like to thank the committee for its good cooperation in preparing the report and everyone else who has contributed to the preparation of this report in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u3	Madam President! The purpose of development policy is to create a better life for people in developing countries. There is no doubt that everyone agrees that the work that can be done with development cooperation must be impressive. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs stated in its report, it is all the more important in a time of less resources to focus attention on the effectiveness and measurement of development cooperation. By reforming development policy practices and targeting resources more closely, the Government will ensure that Finland’s key objectives can also be achieved in such a weak economic situation. Improving the position of women and girls has been placed at the forefront of Finland’s development cooperation priorities. It is an important choice, because the role of women in developing countries must indeed be strengthened by all means available. It has a positive impact on society as a whole and is not only humanly just, but also economically sound. Women's education, reproductive and sexual health and sexual rights, as well as participation in political activities, must be given a great deal of attention. It is a waste of time that in these countries, where women are, as a rule, excluded from the labour market, who are deprived of the ability of another person. In addition to the impact on gender equality, the improvement of the position of women will thus also boost economic growth. With regard to reproductive and sexual health, I would like to raise a few facts, because every two minutes a woman dies in childbirth because she does not have access to health services. Every two seconds, a girl under the age of 18 gets married against her will. Every four seconds a girl under the age of 18 gives birth, and in most cases this also involves serious complications. So, with our development policy, we are able to influence human rights issues in such a way that these young women — the girls — understand that they have a right to their own bodies. With these projects we can also empower women and girls by training them, by sharing information on family planning and, above all, by emphasising that having a child is always their choice. The report identifies Finland's development cooperation as a second key priority for the development of developing countries' economies. Economic growth naturally enables more jobs, economic activity and, through them, well-being. It is great that Finland will contribute a total of more than half a billion euros to international efforts to mobilise sustainable investment in developing countries during the Government term. Finnfund and other Nordic development funders, among others, are doing an excellent job. Finnish companies have strong expertise in clean technology, bioeconomy and education, among other things. There is a significant need for this expertise in developing countries and I welcome the increased role of the private sector in Finland's development cooperation. In this context, however, I would like to express the same concern expressed in the committee's report: Finland's forest know-how and its use in development cooperation does not appear more prominently in the report. Similarly, in its own opinion, the Committee on the Environment has stressed the importance of Finnish forest expertise in international sustainable forestry projects. For example, I could mention Zambia as one such country, where two thirds of the area is forest. There would certainly be a use for Finnish forest expertise. I would also like to thank Minister Toivakka for the desire to develop Finland's development cooperation and improve its effectiveness despite the unfortunate cuts. The Government has made important priorities and, as a result, Finland will increase the support of the least developed and fragile states and target more resources to countries of origin, reception and transit of refugees. As a result of these reforms, Finland’s development policy is more responsive to the situation in the world and Finland. Mr President! Finally, I would like to make a small minus sign of the fact that the impact on EU development policy has remained at a very general level in the report and does not raise the problems that the EU has in order to ensure coordinated action. I would encourage the Minister and the other government to take very active measures so that solutions can also be presented to these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u4	Madam President! For the world as well as for Europe, we are now dealing with a very important issue. Growth in inequality, poverty, including refugees, are themes related to this development policy report. As the committee also states in its own report, this report on development policy provides a good basis for continuing the long-term work in Finland. The fundamental values and principles have largely remained the same, and the Social Democratic Group of the European Parliament, under the leadership of our group speaker Jutta Urpilainen, also gave its positive assessment of this continuity in the referral debate. It is also good, as the chairman of the committee has said here in his presentation, that both the government and the committee in their own report stress the role of women and girls, gender equality, and I attach particular importance to the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has raised the issue of unanimity in its report in particular... [President MariaLohela : I'm sorry,Mr.Hovinen,wait a minute. — There are now a number of other discussions in progress. I would ask the representatives to move them outside the Chamber and we will hear what the speaker has to say here in front of us. — Please continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u7	It is now possible to participate in the debate. I'm going to ask the debaters to sign up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u8	Mr President! The Greens share the criticism that it is precisely in this situation, in which aid is needed in the world, that huge refugee crises have arisen, that, above all, there is also a need for stability and greater development aid, and it is a bad thing that countries such as Finland are, in a way, setting the wrong example now by reducing this aid. But I would have drawn attention to something that may not have been emphasised enough in this report, and that is the importance of education. Finland has always spoken about the education of girls, about improving the position of women, that is a good thing. Now in North Africa, in the Middle East, young men who are unemployed need vocational training more than ever, and also in this refugee stream, which is leaving Syria, Iraq, which is perhaps waiting in Turkey and elsewhere, there are many who have had to stop either because of the refugee status of vocational education or because of the refugee status of university education. It would be very important to create temporary universities in Turkey, for example, for Syrian refugees to be able to study there, to continue their studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u9	Mr President! These many themes, which have already been discussed here, are familiar, have been discussed on many occasions in the past. This issue of refugees is now a truly new issue and what needs to be done in the regions of origin. In other words, where these conditions for refugees are created, both the European Union and a developed country such as Finland should make as much effort as possible. I would like to stress that such activities, such as Finnfund's efforts to create business there, are extremely useful and thus create new skills and conditions there on the ground, so that we do not have to cross the Sahara here to cross the Mediterranean. This is the kind of question that the European Union should now invest massively in and cooperate with Libya and other countries from where they are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u10	Mr President! The Development Policy Report and Finland’s development policy priorities are in the right direction, but the question is how these good goals can be achieved when the Siplä sledgehammer has hit development funding and more than 40% of funding has been cut and even more in this spring’s spending limits debate. I would like to ask the Minister how this target of 0.7% of GDP mentioned in the report can be achieved and whether there is a plan to increase this contribution to 0.7. Mr President! As funding decreases, its focus and principles become more and more important. It is important that development policy priorities are also reflected in business-led funding and in the targeting of humanitarian aid, and, as the committee stresses, human rights-basedness must be reflected in all cooperation and funding and also in this business-driven approach. I would like to ask the Minister for his comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u11	Madam President! Just a few more words on taxation, even though it was discussed yesterday. It is quite clear that developing countries' economies are much more dependent on business taxation than developed countries and thus international business tax avoidance and the transfer of profits to countries with low or zero taxation undermine the opportunities for developing countries to increase their own public funding. There's a lot of research on this. For example, in 2014 the countries of sub-Saharan Africa received USD 40 billion in development aid, and in the same year, they went into tax havens, such as Holland or the UK, in illegal cash flows, between USD 60 and USD 100 billion. In other words, I would like to ask the Minister whether or not we are doing enough and indeed doing enough to get these capital outages and aggressive tax planning under control, tax avoidance. This is, of course, very important for developing countries and also for us in the West.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u12	Mr President! This report on Finland’s development policy is beautiful to read. Finland promotes equality, the ability of developing countries to develop their economies and supports development in areas where Finland has special expertise. Finland promotes, develops, expands, deepens, supports — fine words, good this way. But the question is, and this question was also raised several times in committee: how can Finland achieve these objectives with the money available? Before we have recovered from the previous cuts, the government will be cutting even more from the budget, now EUR 25 million, once the first opportunity has arrived. Finland has long been a respected actor in the UN and in general in the field of development cooperation. We have sought and obtained candidates for various UN bodies, but now, unfortunately, the cuts are bound to change Finland's position in the international arena. I hope that the government will follow very closely how these cuts are going to work and will ask itself, in fact, whether we can afford to cut this much from development cooperation funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u13	Mr President! Of course, it's a good report. It contains a lot of beautiful and quite right goals, and they are not very new. Continuity is also prevalent in development cooperation, and that is a good thing. But what is really sad now and what has been pointed out — the committee itself in its report — is that there is a great lack of credibility in all of this. Even the taste of hypocrisy comes to mind when, at the same time, 40% of the resources that should be used to accomplish all this good are cut. What may be new in the report is the emphasis on Finnfund's activities: as much as 100 million will be added. As Chairman of the Board of Directors, I have full confidence that Finnfund will use these funds for very good purposes, but there will be no way that when this happens at the same time as these other cuts, it will raise questions, even bitterness, in non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u14	Madam President! After all, this month the Committee on Finance carried out an inspection of development cooperation projects in Ethiopia and Tanzania, where we saw a lot of good things that development cooperation funds can accomplish. In Tanzania, for example, there is a good forest programme where Finnish expertise is exported until the forest is planted and grown and processed. There was also a very good programme on how to tackle youth unemployment through mobile applications, even in a much more modern way than here in Finland. There will probably be a time when some sort of development cooperation is being carried out here from there, because they are much longer in some areas than we are. But as far as these budget cuts are concerned, I would have asked Minister Toivaka if they could now be looked at from another perspective in such a way as to save the opportunities for these Finnish development organisations to operate in such a way that they would no longer be cut off in the future in this coming round. It is disproportionate that Finnish development organisations should:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u15	Madam President! Finland’s development policy aims to support developing countries’ efforts to eradicate poverty and inequality and promote sustainable development. Over the past few years, Finland has financed UNRWA through general support of EUR 4.5 million per year. The UNRWA has been accused of transmitting anti-Israeli propaganda to students in its schools, even inciting violence. Among other things, there have been praises for suicide bombers in schools and examples of them have been made for young children. In schools funded by Finland, hate education should not take place, the material should be neutral and the property of schools should not be used for military purposes. I wonder whether the government intends to impose conditions on the continuation of funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u16	Madam President! The report is a good first step in a long-term assessment and, as the committee has said, it must be continued. Another possibility for long-term work is the law that is already in use in some other Nordic countries, and this is one of the proposals to which the Development Policy Commission, among other things, has taken a position and wanted it to be clarified. I would like to ask the Minister at what stage this is going on. Agenda 2030, extreme poverty and the role of women and girls... But perhaps in our own country, cross-cutting in this gender equality could be at a slightly better level: if money is directed at Finnfund, for example, what is Finnfund's sense of equality, and how is it assessed in terms of projects, if we really think that in all work this is our number one thing? The root causes of refugeeism are, of course, a serious and important issue, because we know how much more humanely than economically it is for people to go along with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u17	Madam President! I find it extremely positive that the committee's emphasis in this report is on the consideration of refugees and migration. Contrary to what the opposition here suggests, it is not by mere use of development policy money that migration is dampened, but, as the committee also points out, mediation and conflict prevention are cost-effective and important ways of achieving these objectives. It is, of course, extremely regrettable that, in this tight economic situation, resources have had to be cut, but just as Mr Sarkkinen said in his own speech, it is now important only to use those resources cost-effectively and more forcefully and to target them where they have the greatest impact. I would have asked the Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u18	Madam President! I also share the wonders of how the objectives set out in this report can be achieved when the level of actual development cooperation has been cut to almost half this year, or EUR 485 million. The government wants to help people in their countries, and at the same time it prevents this goal from being achieved by completely removing the financial basis from the single instrument. This is a clear choice of values. Finland is moving away from the Nordic frame of reference. I would also like to ask the Minister: instead of using loose speeches on the 0.7% target, it should, in the interests of honesty, make a concrete plan and a timetable for how it intends to achieve that objective. Are you going to make a plan like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u20	Madam President! I would like to draw our attention to the younger generations of the world. Nearly half of the world's population is under 25 years of age and 1.2 billion of them live in developing countries. Syria is losing an entire generation. Young generations define the direction the world is going. So the radicalisation of young people is one of the greatest threats we have. I would like to see more discussion on this subject, radicalisation and prevention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u21	Mr President! In April, I took part in the Committee on Finance's trip to Ethiopia and was surprised to learn that the five-star Radisson Blu hotel in the centre of Addis Ababa had received funding from Finnfund through such an international fund. Now that Finnfund's funding has been increased more than the fund itself asked for, it is very possible that Finnfund will increase its stake in such international equity funds, which are particularly high in Africa. Many of these funds are registered in tax havens, and among the projects financed by these funds there are private schools and hotels. I would like to ask the Minister: How are projects of this kind linked to Finland's development policy objectives? Is this the effectiveness that development policy wants? How does the Government intend to promote transparency and corporate responsibility in Finnfund's operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u22	Mr President! It is extremely good that different points of view are raised in this debate and, for example, it is extremely important to address this issue of tax avoidance, which was also in the debate yesterday. These so-called Panama papers have made tax havens and, more generally, tax avoidance a major issue, and so on. Now I would have liked to ensure from Minister Toivakka that, when last season the first government action programme against international tax evasion was adopted, the government is now going to update this programme and bring it to Parliament in some way. Again, Mr President, I would like to ask: As these additional cuts in development cooperation became public, we have now read that development cooperation has already been cut in relative terms more than any other policy area. Is this sustainable and justified, Minister Toivakka?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u23	Mr President! It is extremely important that we have enough money to improve the position of women globally, women and children. That is perfectly clear. But, Minister, this allocation of money has just been mentioned. How closely do we actually look at what the money is allocated to and what is the money spent on? That would be extremely important. Personally, I know the case in Sri Lanka, where an orphanage was established some 30 years ago, and we have funded it and, according to the information I have at the moment, we are still funding it. The only thing is that the youngest child is now over 30 years old. The money would certainly last much longer if we looked carefully at where it is targeted and how it is used there at the destination, so that it would not happen that we are merely helping the local corruption, because that is probably the thing we have to admit that this is the case. But we have to look closely at where the money goes, that it goes to the right places.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u24	Madam President! Yesterday there was indeed an important debate on tax avoidance, and it also highlighted the fate of the developing countries in terms of the tax haven economy. The fact is that 800 billion dollars of untaxed capital is being poured annually from the poorest countries to the wealthier north. This sum corresponds to nine times the total amount of development aid, which is quite descriptive and highlights the seriousness of this problem. In Finland, the tax haven economy has been studied by NGOs such as Finn-watch and Kepa, and their funding has been significantly cut by the government in connection with these development cooperation budget cuts. Prime Minister Sipilä has promised that during this spring the government will be able to re-examine the funds that the government is using to control the shadow economy and tax evasion. I would have asked: could Finnwatch and Kepa's budgets also be considered in this context, because they are fighting an important battle against this tax haven economy in their own way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u25	Mr President! Indeed, this report is timely in many ways right now. The UN 2030 Agenda objectives, the Paris climate agreement and, of course, this acute refugee crisis are all major issues on which this report is very central. It is therefore important to remember that development policy must not be isolated from other policies, but that it is part of all the policy and decision-making that we are doing here. The report also mentions the strengthening of dialogue and information. In part, this report already does so, it supports transparency and anticipation, but I would like to ask the Minister how this dialogue and information are to be promoted in the implementation process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u26	Madam President! In particular, I regret the fact that it is precisely these NGOs, which are doing good grass-roots work, that the conditions for action have been so dramatically weakened now because of these government cuts. This is something that the committee in this report also draws attention to and blames for the fact that such significant changes should have been introduced gradually so that projects would not have to be driven down in such an uncontrolled manner as has been done now. Unfortunately, these cuts and reductions are directed at the very important sectors that have been highlighted here: improving the development and status of girls and women, health care, education, precisely those where non-governmental organisations have the good grass roots.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u27	Mr President! I myself would say that development cooperation funds cannot promote peace or prevent terrorism, and that is a good thing to remember. In the election themes, the Finns also pointed out that development cooperation money is also something that may have to be cut. It has been said here that not all things have been raised in the election themes — this has been brought up, at least on our behalf. Then I would have asked if the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Economic Affairs were working together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u28	Mr President! I also pay attention to this cutting of resources and to the kind of long-term work that Finland is committed to. In particular, when Finland has always stressed the need to strengthen the position of women, sexual health must be included in the agenda, the role of girls must be strengthened, so that, in a sense, these cuts in resources are directed at organisations that do this work, it hits the cheek pretty hard. The WHO and the United Nations Organisation for HIV and AIDS will be cut completely, so the U.N. will no longer give them money in the future. We know that prevention education, safe abortion are absolutely central to the sexual health and health of girls and young women in the world. Finland was very strongly involved at the time when 95 Beijing adopted an action programme on the status of women for the UN, where sexual health was first acquired. I attended that meeting to do it, and Finland was truly appreciated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u29	Madam President! It is right that we should discuss the development policy report here critically and constructively, and it is important that we, in many of our speeches, take particular account of the role of women and girls and we want to promote it. It therefore seems unreasonable that the cuts made by non-governmental organisations are aimed at the very place where this work can be carried forward most. But I cannot fail to thank the representatives of Paloniemi and Andersson, who raised tax avoidance and then Finnfund's activities, for certain parts of the fact that everything is as it should be. It is particularly important to take into account what Mr Haavisto has said: in terms of education, the level of education of young men there is one of the perhaps most successful stories if we are to be able to get the level of education for those young men in the future so that we can link them to their own country to produce well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u30	Madam President! I would like to comment on Mr Haatainen's speech. The promotion of sexual health and the rights of girls and women is important, but I do disagree with the role played by promoting this safe abortion in development cooperation. Abortion is never safe for the child it is targeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u31	Madam President! Mr Räsänen replied: I've been around a lot of developing countries and heard stories there. In Mexico, for example, a 13-year-old girl was raped — there was no abortion. Is that right? There is a safe abortion combined with sexual health education, access to contraceptives. This has been the Finnish line, we have got abortions down, and it is very rarely necessary to resort to them. But women die daily in developing countries because a safe abortion is not possible. And that is why this issue is indeed a crucial and important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u32	Mr President! Sexual and reproductive health and rights of women and girls are also a very important human rights issue in developing countries. And I share the concern of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that this report does not sufficiently address this issue and its importance. It should be a cross-cutting theme in all our development policy and funding, including in crisis areas. The need for sexual health and family planning is not lost, and pregnancy is not lost either in crises or in refugees. One fifth of women and girls of childbearing age are pregnant in crisis areas. More than half of the deaths of maternity and under-five-year-olds occur in crisis areas. Seven out of ten women are exposed to violence in crisis areas. My question to the Minister is: how does Finland take into account sexual and reproductive health issues in crisis areas, and how is this reflected in our humanitarian aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u33	Mr President! I must also comment on this now, given the number of children's marriages in developing countries in addition to these rapes: a huge number of girls between the ages of 11 and 13, repeated pregnancies — that is to say, it is shocking that these births are killing and seriously maiming these young girls. That, in my opinion, in these cases now that abortion in many cases could save a child’s life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u35	Madam President! This spring, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health listened for a long time to various experts on this issue of abortion, when there was a debate on whether we should allow the right of professional workers to refuse to assist in abortion, and it became very clear that if abortion is made illegal, it will not reduce the number of abortions in itself, but it will make it possible for illegal, wrong abortions to increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u38	Madam President! If we concentrate solely on discussing whether abortion is legal or not, we will close our eyes to this big picture. We must genuinely talk about reproductive and sexual health as a whole, just as Mrs Tuula Haatainen said earlier. There are a huge number of rapes, unwanted pregnancies, unwanted forced marriages in developing countries. The average age of births is very low. A month ago I was in Zambia, and I met a woman my age who already had grandchildren, and it tells me that if the average age of those giving birth is on both sides of 15, then the prognosis is not good. I would also like to say that there are a huge number of premature births in developing countries, and you, Mr Räsänen, as an expert in the field, know what the chances are for a one-pound child to survive in a developing country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u39	Madam President! I know that the issue of abortion is a divisive issue and it is a sensitive issue, and that is not the most important issue at all, even when we are talking about development cooperation. I believe that the role of girls and women, as well as the safety of childbirth, should be promoted in order to ensure that the child can be adopted when the parents themselves are unable to keep him. I wanted to comment on the fact that abortion is never safe for an unborn child. It must be remembered that it is a matter of ending human life. That is the deepest ethical problem of abortion, and I therefore believe that, when we talk about development cooperation, it should not be a priority to promote abortions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u40	I now turn to Minister Toivaka for five minutes. I'll ask you to come to the podium, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u41	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for this lively debate. I would also like to thank the committees for their excellent work: both the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for their unanimous report and for the points of view raised in this report. I would also like to thank the Finnish experts for having been widely consulted in various areas and, of course, this report is also important. I also welcome the view of the UAV that in the report, thinking has shifted from aid to joint resolution of global challenges. It is precisely such a pro-active idea in this report that global challenges are common to us and we need to deal more with them in cooperation with different actors. In addition, we have set clear priorities for development cooperation, as has been well demonstrated in this debate, and it is very important that they are widely promoted, not only by development policy players. For example, foreign policy has a lot to do with the rights of women and girls in defending international standards and commitments, EU trade policy strengthens developing countries' economies and, on the other hand, international corporate responsibility, increasing trade and aid thinking, strengthens the responsible behaviour of companies and the development of tax rules, which is, by the way, one of Finland's important priorities, which was also highlighted here. Secondly, I would like to point out from this committee's report that priority choices were considered right, and I am pleased about that, because it gives very strong support to this development policy work overall in the future. This is the continuity that has been announced for years for development policy. But then there are a few things I would like to raise about these priorities, which, in this debate, raised a great deal of concern: these women's and girls' rights, in particular reproductive and sexual health and related rights, and their lack of attention or lack of attention in this report. I regret this because there is now a misunderstanding. Clearly, on page 16 of the report, where our first priority has been presented here among the most important columns, it is precisely that the rights and status of women and girls are realised in such a way that 'the ability of countries to respect, protect and promote the rights of women and girls' and, above all, the rights of women to take decisions about them, and that violence and exploitation against them are reduced. So at least this report has meant to raise this very high. And I will also tell you that I myself do this work very strongly in the international arenas, as I know before that there has been a great deal of parliamentary and ministerial work here, and Finland is well-known in this regard. We are specifically asked to address this type of event. Furthermore, the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) is one of our most important UN partner organisations, and even now, although we have had to reduce funding, we are the tenth largest contributor to UNFPA's work. In that sense, I would like to say that this is high, as is the work of UN Women, which, in its own way, also supports this type of women's rights, although it is not directly their first target, but all work in favour of women's rights will certainly support this promotion of sexual and reproductive health. Then I would really like to highlight what has taken place in this few speeches: the importance of this work by the EU. I can see for myself that this is a good point. This has certainly not come up well enough here, and it is still a channel for strong development cooperation between the EU Member States where we have something to improve. More flexibility, for example in the event of such a refugee crisis, will certainly be possible in this funding if you wish to do so. Then I see that trade and development cooperation at EU level has increased all the time, and it also adds value to it, because it is able to achieve these developing countries' objectives of creating more jobs, and more so by means of the EU. But then there were a few points which I would like to raise separately, if the President would allow me, namely these cuts which we will have to make in addition to these unfortunate major cuts — additional cuts of EUR 25 million decided in the debate on the spending limits. I'm telling you right now, I'm really sorry about these. This decision was very unfortunate. But what I want to say here is that this new cut does not mean falling below the current level of development funds. This trend has been slightly rising in plans for the coming years. Now this rise of a little bit is slipping, but this level will continue to be higher in the coming years than this year. Now its average is about 0.39% of our GDP, and it will increase slightly in the coming years. But the objective of 0.7 remains, of course, the objective. It is a long way off, but we are certainly working on it to get development cooperation funding towards it. But I would also like to say that these new cuts will only be for the years 2018, But if I may say again what I personally consider important in this context of cuts: it does not affect our humanitarian funding, and the other, which I want to protect in this context too, and in this context in particular, is Finnish non-governmental organisations. But then, if I may take the next floor, I will answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u42	I'm sure there'll be more questions coming. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u43	Mr President! It's a little bit of a feeling that the clouds run away with these development aid cuts. But I think it was a good thing that the Minister stressed this aspect of sexual health, because it is, however, a matter of great importance for demographic policy and for the rights and health and survival of girls and women. I would remind you that this is not done by companies, it is done by UN organisations and non-governmental organisations. It does not work in the way that we think it would be done in the commercial market. I would like to raise another point which I think is important. These cuts in development cooperation took the money out of the UN Environment Programme first and then, fortunately, the government cancelled and left a small seed money. But the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, for example, met with the management of the environmental programme, and there was a great deal of regret about these cuts. There was a doubt as to whether they were doing something very radically wrong when Finland so significantly withdraws its funding, and they said that they do understand that countries are saving under different circumstances, but such radical solutions are difficult to understand for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u44	Honorable Speaker! Now I have to disagree with Mr Filatov because, in my view, even projects which promote the position of girls and women in developing countries should be catalysed through Finnfund, I think. After all, Finnfund's capital does not in itself pass, but actually increases. A total of 165 million have been allocated to it in due course and most of it over the last eight years. 400 investment decisions have been made, i.e. projects. Capital has increased to 250 million, with borrowing currently amounting to 320 million. The whole portfolio is about 600 million, and there are currently 300 million investment decisions waiting — hopefully these decisions will promote education, the role of girls and women, as well as waste treatment, bioprocessing and forest projects in developing countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u45	Mr President! I think it's a representative. Vähämäki forgot one thing about my speech: sexual health and the rights of girls and women. I have no doubt that companies themselves can promote equality and the rights of girls and women, for example, through employment policies, if they prioritise the employment of women. Instead, it is difficult to see companies taking care of, for example, sexual advice or childbirths or others that, as it were, give women and girls access to sexual health. This has traditionally been very strict in the hands of the countries themselves, their social policy and health policy, the organisations associated with it or the UN organisations. I have not yet met any companies in these jobs, although quite a few projects I have been running around.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u46	Mr President! The Government wants to shift the focus from assistance to solving global challenges. It is all right, but it does conflict with how to deal with climate change. That is not only a matter of security, but also of development. And even if, at best, the Paris Agreement as such can be implemented, the progress of climate change will create enormous adjustment needs and pressures. Now, however, this government has dismantled the decision taken in the previous government to reserve emissions trading revenues as an addition to development cooperation and, at the same time, it seems to have also withdrawn the investment of around 100 million in the climate fund, I believe that this is a very important policy, which means that the effects of climate change will, if not managed, mean that people will be forced to go looking for more viable conditions, more conflicts, more refugees, all those for whom we should now act to the extent that such problems will not arise to the extent that they already exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u47	Mr President! The cuts are, of course, unpleasant, but exactly 25 years ago Finland drifted, or shortly before that, into a deep depression, and that was when I had to deal with these cuts in development cooperation. I had to negotiate with Finnish organisations as well as with UN organisations, and it was done by explaining the situation in Finland. Now the situation is similar that the Finnish economy cannot bear the level of expenditure that was during the last parliamentary term. That is how we are going to be cut from everywhere, unfortunately also from development cooperation. What was very encouraging was the Minister's recent statement that cuts in NGOs and humanitarian aid would not, however, take place. I hope that more money will be returned to them than will be provided for this year in the future. That would be extremely important. I would also stress the importance of tax and trade policy in development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u48	Mr President! However, one thing to which attention should be paid is that taxpayers' money is being used, that it should be used carefully and that there should be good control. This is where Mr Tolppanen told the story of Sri Lanka. I hope the story isn't true, but if it is, we'll have to send an inspector and we'll have to find out if such an urban legend is that the money is being misused. Similarly, when Mr Östman raised the issue of terrorist training in UNRWA or this kind of training in schools, in my own time as a minister, this was explained, let's go see, let's get a look at it, let's see what the videos were. There were fake documents, fake news that spread on the Internet. We've got to grab these. We've got to go there and take a look. We are responsible for the good use of the funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u49	Madam President! Indeed, many have thanked Parliament for bringing this report, and I would also like to thank you for that. As you said, Minister, these priorities are something that we can all accept here. It is indeed very important that this Agenda 2030 should serve as a basis, although I believe that it must also be the subject of its own debate here in Parliament. Unfortunately, however, the sad fact is that these resources are being cut in an unprecedented way. The fact that 43% of development funds are being cut is enormously large, it is a huge cut. Indeed, the Church’s Foreign Aid is forced simply to cut the support from about 500,000 people, and here are a lot of girls and also the women we have discussed and talked about today. Unfortunately, these major cuts also affect UN organisations, and I would not be as convinced of the reputation of Finland as Minister Toivakka in his recent speech. I certainly hope that this fact will be remembered in the context of a good report, because the facts cannot be turned into fine words.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u50	Mr President! You get what you want. In the election program of the Finns Party, development aid must be cut — cut — in this economic situation. Of course, I must say that I understand that this was the case with the Coalition Party in the election programme. The understanding is that the economic situation is difficult, as Mr Kankaanniemi quite rightly said. In the large committee we have made a lot of decisions in relation to migration, the migration crisis. It has surprised me that the money that is being used here could be much more helpful in the area nearby. Let me give you an example: in the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan it costs EUR 5 per day. The reception centre in Finland costs EUR 45. We should put money there, which means that only 70 million of our development aid is currently going to humanitarian aid. I would therefore ask, Minister, whether we could put a significantly higher proportion of development aid specifically in the humanitarian crisis aid to Syria, Iraq, in order to alleviate this migratory pressure on Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u51	Mr President! Now I have to say that I believe that this promise by the Finns is the only one that has kept it in the near future, because at least in Central Finland, at the corner of Siwa, there has been a great deal of wonder about the other promises that have not been seen in the nearby countries. But, President-in-Office, on this point, on which Mr Elo has said that he should pay attention to humanitarian aid in those regions of origin. This is true. Many of these people have left here in Europe under duress because children cannot go to school, food rations are reduced, health care in these camps is getting worse. So these are absolutely clear reasons for these people to leave. I'm sure every one of us would do this. But that does not remove the fact that we must not work long-term to get to these root causes. In that, I am surprised at this government line that it cannot be this way that more money is required here and, at the same time, that historic, huge cuts are being made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u52	Madam President! As has been pointed out in many of these speeches, it is a very unfortunate fact that these development funds have also been misused and misused on a very large scale. For example, I remember reading that in Mozambique, in the Zambezia region, development funds had even contributed to the killing of crocodiles and talked about hundreds and hundreds of false and vague payments. Since these necessary unfortunate cuts have now been made, it is extremely important that the resources available are allocated correctly and that they achieve the maximum effectiveness in those regions. I would have asked the Minister: how do you intend to prevent these abuses that have been committed against development funds?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u53	Mr President! It is extremely pleasant to support all the good things in the report, and it is very important that Parliament follows closely how the UN’s sustainable development objectives are being implemented. But then on to these resources. Unfortunately, Minister, it is not quite impossible to ride a moped. Last autumn, you have cut almost half of the development funds, in particular from UN member organisations, and now you are cutting almost EUR 75 million over three years. How can you rightly say that these good objectives of the report will be fulfilled? How can you say that these good intentions can be taken forward? You said 'but' so many times in your recent speech when you discussed how Finland will achieve this 0.7% target. Is it, Minister Toivakka, that Finland is still committed to achieving this 0.7% GDP target? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u54	Mr President! Many speakers have highlighted the merits of this report and its priorities. This is precisely a forward-looking mind, a kind of shipwreck of ideals, when effectiveness has been questionable in many places and such pessimism has been prevalent in development cooperation recently. It's not a whole new phenomenon. After all, Matti Pulkkinen, in the mid-1980s, in a literary work, the death of a Roma person, drew attention to these same questions, raised a debate about them. But now that there are clear priorities, I ask the Minister: do you see that these priorities are in such a way right and lasting, that if the economic situation improves, then these priorities can go far in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u55	Mr President! After all, the government has not only cut, but has also made such a shift in the focus of Finnish development policy. Unfortunately, the Minister did not answer my question about Finnfund's international venture capital investments, so I will repeat my question: how do projects funded through these funds, such as five-star luxury hotels or private schools, support Finland's development policy objectives and promote them? So here we have cut back on the development cooperation of NGOs, multilateral development cooperation, for which over the decades quite precise models have been developed to assess and monitor effectiveness, while this focus has now been shifted to Finnfund, who also invests through these funds. And when it comes to these investments, we do not always necessarily know where this money will end up in the final games. So how is this effectiveness assessed in Finnfund's operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u56	Mr President! The Minister will probably answer more about Finnfund, but I cannot stand to be a member of the Board of Directors without saying that it is now worth Mr Andersson's attention to how much public education actually meets the needs in poor countries. In many poor countries, the poorest parents, such as the slums, raise money and set up their own schools because that public side does not work. Unfortunately, the word "private school" alone does not quite correspond to what you are probably looking for. You might want to take a look. I have dealt with this very much. Then this hotel project, about which you cannot know the details now: Yes, Ethiopia is also a country where huge international meetings are held. There will then be a need for places where international decision-makers can act. I do not see, but I am sure the Minister knows more about it, that there are huge contradictions or opacity here. Finnfund is doing a very good job, and this is done through corporate governance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u57	Mr President! I have an example here. Finnfund has, among other things, invested through a fund called Fanisi Venture Capital, which then helps to finance private schools through a company called Hillcrest International Schools. This does not sound exactly like an attempt by parents in Ethiopia in my ears. Then, as far as these hotels are concerned, this is a five-star Radisson Blu hotel, which our representative delegation could not afford to accommodate. I think it is right to ask when there are concerns about how development funds are being used: Is this right? Is this impressive development cooperation that we want to do with our money?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u59	Mr President! I would have raised the same issue as Mr Andersson has already asked. In other words, I would have liked to have the answers to the questions that Mr Andersson asked earlier here. Is this the appropriate development cooperation carried out in this way which then meets the objectives set out in this report as well? Have you been aware of this particular incident? If you haven't, are you going to find out? How is the money circulating through Finnfund used for various projects, and do these projects meet the objectives set in this report, for example? I believe that this was a good and proper question, and I hope that an answer will now be given to this in this Chamber. If you can't give that answer now, can you perhaps deliver it later? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u60	Madam President! I was on the same mission to the Committee on Finance. It's a good thing the African fires aren't still bubbling in that stomach, but that's another thing. Mr President! There must be individual examples, as has been mentioned here. In any case, Ethiopia and Tanzania, for example, when looking at the economic situation, also need the development of international business in order to create infrastructure in the country, to be able to take education forward, to take health care forward — just these basic issues. The country is living on a completely different level from, for example, the whole of Europe and the rest of the world, and so it is not easy to move forward with development. But not all solutions can be just these wells or sanitary systems. There must also be a need to develop the business sector in such a way that international investors are also interested in getting involved in the usual things. Development funds alone will not solve those problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u61	Madam President! It is indeed very important for the taxpayer to be able to monitor the movement of his tax euro, and that is also important in the development funds. But we have a situation where Finland has cut enormously across the rest of the development cooperation instruments, but not from the private sector. The question then is: how can we ensure that private sector development funds are as responsible as non-governmental organisations? How do you ensure that accounting, resource use and reporting are equally transparent? How will it be ensured that companies act responsibly in areas such as human rights and the environment? How will it be ensured that these developing countries have their own ownership in different areas? This is the great concern that we have now, in fact, when the emphasis is transferred from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u62	Madam President! I would like to make such a fundamental comment in this debate that direct budget support should not be given to corrupt countries. That is why this major cut in development cooperation could indeed be a good place to look at how development cooperation works. I have the point here that development policy can be, in addition to this trade in indulgences of the good mind — which, of course, is a fine thing in itself as it can be done — and it should be more trade policy, industrial policy. It is a good thing that it has been specifically mentioned here that we are investing in these additional funding from Finnfund and in new investment aid. Think about what will happen to companies and the Finnish economy if, for example, agricultural machinery manufactured in Finland can be exported to Africa instead of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u63	Mr President! No one should be left behind, it is the glorious objective of Agenda 2030. We each have a responsibility as a person and as a state to achieve these objectives. But now, with these scarce resources, we have good things to do with this development policy: the first thing to do is to eradicate poverty and then to create democracy, to develop the economy in developing countries, to strive for equality between girls and women, and so on. But I think that, as our economy grows, we need to increase these appropriations. It is in the interests of our donors and also of developing countries. If we are talking about prevention, we know what the situation in Africa is: drought, famine and civil war. If this gets infected, we have movement to Europe. I think we need these increases in the budget, but when this situation is what it is, then we have to settle for this. But thank you for this development policy programme, which has been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u64	Then, to Minister Toivaka, five minutes, and then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u65	Mr President! At the outset, I would like to say that yes, Finland is still committed to the 0.7 objective, just as is enshrined in the Government Programme, and also to achieving sustainable growth in Finland's economy, which will, of course, make it easier to achieve this goal. But then I will go immediately — and I apologise for not having been able to answer all the good questions in the first speech — to this Finnfund. In fact, two questions related to Finnfund: there was this, how Finnfund was supervised, raised this single hotel issue, but also came this Honduras. Finnfundhan is in strong state ownership steering, and the main development lines and main lines of corporate governance are drawn up each year and approved by the Minister for Development. The State Department owns 93% of Finnfund. Development impacts are assessed, for example, through the following indicators: jobs always in the funded project, farmers benefiting from the project, tax revenues and payments, and the proportion of projects directly serving the poor part of the population. Finnfund is always required to promote corporate responsibility and must comply with the UN Global Compact principles. These are the guiding principles that go with the projects. But then if I go, for example, to this single hotel that here rose: I know Finnfund has been involved in other hotel projects. I was in Kenya, Nairobi, opening a hotel in December together with the Swedish, Danish, Norwegian Development Ministers, which is also a question of Nordic cooperation. It is a project involving the respective Danish organisation Swefund, Norfund, in Ethiopia. It is about jobs, it is above all about the development of its society, making tourism possible, promoting foreign investment. It should be noted that these countries also have different needs. We also want to do trade with these countries, for example, and it is important that they get involved in this other development of the world. It is not out of this other work that is being done, but it will also help this poor country to grow. Then if I take that case of Honduras, which Mr Sarkkinen raised, which has been very timely and much on the news. After all, Finland has strongly condemned the murder of the leader of the Honduran NGO. Finnfund has co-financed this project by the Dutch development finance company FMO, i.e. this is a small hydroelectric project carried out by a Honduran electricity company. Now that these unfortunate, shocking events have taken place there, Finnfund has decided to suspend its payment to this project. Currently, close contacts between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Finnfund for the project continue. So we are well aware of and follow up on this situation. But then if I take one more of these abuses: Here comes the question of how to deal with them and what to do about them. It is clear that these abuses are already being prevented in such a way that, when projects start to be carried out, strict advance information is provided, they are reported all the time, there is ex post follow-up. If problems arise, they will be addressed and, in the worst case scenario, funding suspended. In other words, this is a very basic piece of work carried out at the Foreign Affairs Office and also with external assessments. Embassies play a particular role in this. So this is something that is taken very seriously and which is immediately being addressed if this kind of information comes from. Then there is another point that has been raised here, which was discussed a little earlier yesterday: this tax evasion, the avoidance of tax, which is a major problem when it comes to the economies of developing countries. One of Finland’s important priorities is to strengthen the tax base, overall reducing corruption. We export our expertise to partner countries. Among other things with Tanzania we have this kind of program going where their tax system is strengthened. Overall, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is currently preparing a tax and development agenda and is planning to publish it around mid-June. But this is something that is actually quite cost-effective development cooperation. This does not cost us much, but the effects can be enormous. As I have already said, the 1% increase in tax bases for developing countries is more than the combined traditional development aid. This is very important work, and in that sense Finland is working hard to strengthen the economy of developing countries with tax and trade issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u66	Then, Mr Sarkkinen, first on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u67	Mr President! The report on development policy is a good one and the committee's report is particularly good. Unfortunately, the government has hammered the funding for development cooperation very well. Unfortunately, the objective of the Development Policy Report of 0.7% of GDP is far from being reached, and it is currently at 0.39%. This is shamefully little and totally incompatible with the official objective. The report highlights important priorities: the role of women, democracy, economic development in developing countries, human rights, sustainable use of natural resources. But the question is, of course, how these priorities can be promoted through development policy when there is no money. When money is reduced, the importance of principles is emphasized. The decline in funding and the strong focus on business-led financing will make Finland’s development policy’s cross-cutting priorities even more important, and these principles also apply to business-driven financing. Transparency and transparency in the use and reporting of money are of paramount importance. A current example of the challenges posed by corporate-led financing is this dam project funded by Finnfund in Honduras. Fortunately, Finnfund frozen funding for the project when activists Berta Cáceres and Nelson García, who were opposed to the dam project, were murdered. This decision by Finnfund was quite right, because human rights violations and murders are not part of Finland's development policy, but these events in Honduras require more extensive consideration of where, how, with whom and with what criteria business-driven projects and development policies are generally implemented and monitored. Mr President! Finland has room for improvement in targeting humanitarian aid. According to the report before us, the first main objective of Finland’s development policy is to improve the position of women and girls, and this is quite right. However, this is not sufficiently reflected in the allocation of humanitarian funding. In the midst of humanitarian crises, all civilians are suffering, but a particularly heavy burden lies on women and girls. However, in humanitarian aid and crisis situations, other issues often become more important and sexual and reproductive health and rights are forgotten. However, identifying gender-related threats and needs would improve the effectiveness of assistance measures. The improvement of the position of women and girls and the consideration of sexual and reproductive health should be reflected in the humanitarian aid provided by Finland and its targeting. Mr President! Finland's development policy must be strongly committed to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We have signed it together with other UN member countries, and I hope that the entire Finnish Government and Parliament will promote the 2030 Agenda objectives in all their activities, both in their internal, external and development policies. I would also like to see it discussed in greater detail here in Parliament. The second new UN agreement was signed last Friday, the Paris climate agreement. It obliges Finland and is essentially linked to development policy. However, Finland's share of climate finance is open for the time being. Climate finance plays an important role in the fight against and adaptation to climate change and, in particular, in the ability of developing countries to adapt, and I would like to ask the Minister: where is climate finance financed and at what level? Mr President! Although development funds have been cut far too low, there are still a lot of things that Finland can do to support developing countries. Far more illegal capital flows from developing countries to tax havens than they are ever given development funding. Finland and other Western countries should therefore play an active role in closing tax havens, and the structures of international trade must also be made fair from the point of view of developing countries. Finland could also share valuable expertise in tax systems, as no society can develop and operate without reliable governance. In addition, Finland must support peace and conflict resolution and prevention in all international activities, namely there can be no development without peace. As a militarily non-aligned country, Finland would have a natural role to play in promoting international relations. Promoting international justice and peace in all international politics does not even cost much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u68	Madam President! During this parliamentary term, EUR 200 million will be cut annually from development cooperation. However, EUR 485 million is set aside for actual development cooperation, which is in proportion to our gross domestic product over the OECD average and in the same category as Germany, for example. So we have nothing to be ashamed of, on the contrary. According to the people of Peru, less money should lead to more effective and sensible development aid, and that is what we are now getting. This is also what our constituents have wanted. We have called for greater effectiveness in development cooperation through more efficient spending. We are promoting a new way of thinking aimed at strengthening the independent economy and society of developing countries' own development aid. The second thing to be welcomed in the development policy report is that the improvement of the position of women and girls was raised to the main development policy objective of the government. The promotion of the role of women is important in the interests of democracy and economic development, among other things. Their training and active participation in the labour market and political decision-making contribute to the well-being of families, curbs population growth and accelerates the prosperity of societies. I also think it is important for the government, despite the cuts in development aid, to make a relatively large contribution to humanitarian aid. Such development aid can affect the living conditions of the countries of origin of refugees and asylum seekers and thus prevent emigration and refugees. Efforts should be made to avoid the need for anyone to flee or to change in the hope of a better life from their own countries. Humanitarian aid should be targeted at those who have the greatest need for our help. In this way, the government will be able to influence immigration to Finland in a preventive way. Development cooperation will continue despite cuts. Unfortunately, we can't save the whole world, even if we want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u69	Madam President! First a comment to Mr Sarkkinen: Honduras is one of the most violent countries in the world. Over a hundred activists have been killed there in a short time, and under very different circumstances, this is just a background. Then this dam project. The news and information distributed about it have been completely inaccurate in many respects. We received an in-depth report on this at the last meeting of the Management Board, and fortunately this matter is now being discussed in Parliament as well. There is an occasion here where everyone can ask the very questions that have been left to amaze them. We will find that news coverage has been miserablely wrong in many cases. By the way, a very small dam project is at stake. But development policy is an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Finland’s expertise and resources contribute to reducing extreme poverty and promoting sustainable development in the world. Finland will increase support for the countries of origin of refugees and asylum seekers in order to strengthen the conditions for peace, human rights and livelihoods, and that is a good thing. At present, up to 80% of humanitarian aid is needed in conflict areas. Climate change will also increase natural disasters, which will require an ever-increasing share of humanitarian funding. Humanitarian needs are also created by an increase in population and inequality, as we know, the deterioration of the environment, the struggle for diminishing natural resources, poor access to food and poor governance. These factors are destabilising and increasing conflicts. There is also a risk that the acute humanitarian crises will become chronic. Mr President! The Development Policy Commission, which I am chairing, therefore suggests that preventive development cooperation and acute humanitarian needs in developing countries should be considered separately but with an understanding of their interrelationships. We believe that Finland must provide adequate and appropriate resources for both needs. It is clear, of course, that the government's cuts, which the government has had to make, are undermining this resource base. Mr President! Strengthening the rights and status of women and girls is a long-term priority in Finland, as has already been mentioned here. Finland supports the work of actors that affect gender equality and the know-how and opportunities of women and girls. Willful discrimination or neglect is currently the greatest threat to the well-being of the poorest children in the world, and the situation is getting worse. This is evident, for example, in Save Not a single child is left behind from a recent report on children. The report shows that the reduction in extreme poverty has not brought about sufficiently lasting changes in the welfare of children. It may be the children’s place of residence, gender, ethnicity, disability or, as is often the case today, the victims of conflicts. At worst, discrimination leads to death. Every day, 16,000 children could be prevented from dying, and a disproportionate proportion of these children belong to newly discriminated groups. Sexual and reproductive health: They are identified as an important means of promoting sustainable development, but it is true, as has been pointed out here, that humanitarian aid is currently not channelled into promoting sexual and reproductive health and sexual rights in humanitarian crises, although it is essential for the health, well-being and safety of girls and women in these situations. I think that this should be addressed, at least in my opinion. The promotion of good governance in developing countries, the eradication of corruption and the strengthening of developing countries' own carrying capacity require action not only on our part but above all on the part of developing countries themselves. In the International Tax Partnership initiative launched as one of the tools for implementing the UN Sustainable Development Agenda, Addis Tax Initiative, Finland is committed, like other donors, to strengthening its tax support for developing countries by 2020. This is good, of course. As far as I am aware, developing countries have repeatedly been disappointed by the fine technical systems of the International Monetary Fund, which do not work in developing countries. Therefore, good governance, the reform of institutions, especially tax administrations, and the strengthening of knowledge as a whole and from developing countries' own needs are absolutely essential. Expert support from the Finnish Tax Administration for regional education in Africa and, for example, the reform of corporate taxation by the Namibian Tax Administration is an excellent example of how financial support and the Finnish expertise input can be combined.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u70	Mr President! For the first time, the famous 0.7% of GDP target for development aid rose to the domestic debate when Jaakko Iloniemi, acting as Head of Office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, entered the UN plenary session on 17 October 1970 and announced Finland’s commitment to achieving this goal on a fast-track basis, i.e. in the middle of the decade. Well, that was a long time ago. "In the circumstances of the United Nations,it was very typical ofthe situation of diplomacy,in which promises No one views them as binding commitments, but rather in a way that this is a well-meaning intention," Iloniemi said later in Kepa's interview. According to researcher Juha Kuisma, "Development aid is an obligation imposed on himself by a morally Western person. There must be 0.7%, although on average we do not know what the aid is for". Finland will provide some EUR 820 million in development aid this year. The cuts to actual development cooperation amount to EUR 330 million, including the EUR 130 million transferred from the actual development cooperation to Finnfund's capitalisation. In addition, the spending limits decision includes an additional cut of EUR 25 million for 2018 and 2020. This year, Finland spends 0.38% of its GDP on development aid. I do believe that cuts are justified, especially in a difficult economic situation at national level. Development aid was born into the Cold War world. The United States wanted to bring developing countries into the Western world and become the target of the market. They didn't want the Soviet Union to find new allies. The United States still provides EUR 30 billion per year for development aid, which is the world's largest but only 0.2% of the country's gross domestic product. Few countries use the UN recommendation, 0.7%. To quote Jaakko Iloniemi: I think the reason for this is that no one else sees the UN recommendation as a binding commitment. Development aid is also provided because there is simply a large group of people living from it, including in Western countries. The World Bank has 10,000 employees, the IMF 2400, UN agencies 5000 and over 25,000 from various organisations,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u75	Mr President! It can be seen and felt when 43% of development funding is cut. A visit to Tanzania by the Committee on Finance concluded that Finland is about to join a group of small donor countries from medium-sized co-operation countries. Finland has never been among the big financiers. However, Finnfund’s funding was not cut, but the government decided on the capitalisation of 130 million. It is clear that there is a need for both private sector and non-governmental organisations and bilateral development cooperation in the future. However, such radical and major changes require sound reasoning. There's no such thing. Indeed, on a trip to Ethiopia to the Committee on Finance, I learned that the Addis Ababa Radisson Blu Hotel had received funding from Finnfund. This was particularly surprising because this hotel was like a different planet compared to the development cooperation projects funded by Finland, which we were also familiar with during the trip. Finnfund makes direct investments but also finances projects through international funds. A large part of these funds are registered in tax havens. Finnfund has invested in at least 30 funds or companies registered in the Cayman Islands. In Africa, in particular, these venture capital funds are well represented. The funds make their own investment decisions, so it can be very difficult to find out about the final use of the money. Radisson Blu has received funding from the Afrinord Hotel Investments Fund, which indeed also supports other luxury hotel projects. Through the Aureos Africa Fund, money could have come from a company that is building fenced residential areas in Ghana. Fanisi Venture Capital finances private schools in Kenya through Hillcrest International Schools, among other things. Finnfund's funding was increased considerably more by the government at one time than the fund itself requested. It is very possible that Finnfund does not have the resources to increase its own direct investment, and this additional funding will then be channelled forward by increasing Finnfund’s share in these private equity funds. The Government has not yet outlined how the aspects of corporate responsibility will be taken into account as a result of this change in development policy. How will the social, economic and environmental responsibility of these companies be ensured in countries where human rights are being trampled down and where governance is weak? How do these projects eradicate poverty and inequality, which is the objective of development cooperation? There are no answers to these questions in this report either. The main problem is also the lack of clarity about the final use of funding and the content of investment portfolios. According to press reports, the members of Finnfund’s Board of Directors receive only information about the type and size of investments. In an interview published in Suomen Kuvalehti, Finnfundi's CEO says that the instructions on compliance with banking secrecy have come from the ownership steering unit of the Prime Minister's Office. Uncertainty about final investments also means that it is very difficult to assess the effectiveness of these investments. At the same time, it is difficult to assess whether the development policy objectives set by Finland are being promoted in this respect in order to eradicate poverty and inequality. The building of a hotel will certainly create jobs, but how will it contribute, for example, to the training of girls, equality or access to clean water in villages? In practice, it is possible that Finland, through these international funds, will end up supporting projects that we do not necessarily want to support or which conflict with the objectives set out in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u76	Mr President! Development policy is an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. It is our duty, but it is also our opportunity. The stability of the countries of origin will be influenced, inter alia, by crisis management. With development aid, our goal is to make the world safer and fairer. The objective of Agenda 2030 is that no one should be left behind. To achieve this, it is the responsibility of every man and country to achieve a better world. The basic principles of Finland’s development policy can be found in the Government Programme as priorities for strengthening the rights and status of girls and women, the development of developing countries’ economies to boost jobs, livelihoods and well-being, the democratic and functional capacity of societies, improved access to food security, water and energy, and the sustainability of natural resources. These are issues in which Finland has expertise, which must be better exploited in cooperation. We support cooperation between universities, scientific and research communities, specialist institutions, companies and NGOs. Our development policy aims to eradicate extreme poverty and reduce inequalities. Work, livelihoods and the strengthening of the tax base are needed. Finland supports developing countries in creating and strengthening their own economic base, developing the business environment and managing and using their natural resources responsibly. During the reign, our country will contribute some EUR 0.5 billion to international efforts to mobilise sustainable investment in developing countries. Mr President! Strengthening the rights and opportunities of women and girls is still one of the most important priorities of Finland's development policy, and the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has made an excellent contribution to this. In Finland, women's and girls' rights are so common and self-evident that it is difficult for us to imagine that gender inequality is one of the greatest problems in developing countries. Our experience shows that improving the rights, status and participation of women and girls strengthens society as a whole and contributes to other objectives. Support will be directed towards countries of origin of refugees and asylum seekers to strengthen conditions for peace, human rights and livelihoods so that people do not have to leave their country of origin. We have an influence in international organisations and in the EU to find common solutions. In addition to humanitarian aid, people must be helped to rebuild their own country and promote peace. This is also an important development policy objective to prevent large-scale refugees. People must be able to live safely and earn their living in their own country. The worrying increase in Africa's population, drought, famine and civil wars will cause more and more movement in Europe if the conditions of life do not improve in the country. And finally, Finland's development policy is set out in the Government's report, and its basis is in the Government Programme. In the next few years, Finland will implement development cooperation with less money, but with more focus and efficiency in the delivery of aid. The reform will also improve the measurement of results and impacts and will focus on assessing them. The intention is that in two years' time we will receive a report on the results of development policy. Finally, I hope that our country will be able to raise these development funds considerably in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u77	Madam President! Good Minister! Indeed, this development policy report, as I mentioned before, has a number of successful priorities. Women's and girls' rights are rightly at the forefront. Support for democracy and the development of other functions of society are involved, although I believe that the emphasis could have been even stronger. Similarly, sustainable development is reflected in the food security and resource use section. The development of the economies of developing countries is also a very important objective. Linking the whole to this Agenda 2030 theme is also a good choice, and I would like Parliament to have its own debate on this Agenda 2030, because there are a lot of things that will also oblige Finland over the coming years. However, the government’s choices in development policy raise many questions as to how the government genuinely and truly intends to ensure that these objectives are achieved. Increasing the role of economic policy is in itself a good one, such as cooperation with private operators and businesses. I don't think that's why anyone's against it. However, it is questionable how much knowledge and will can be found in companies to work in a genuinely sustainable way and to do this work directly to people. How can businesses, as operators, be able to work in the same way that I think NGOs have been excellent at doing so far in a transparent and clear way? We have a huge amount of excellence in the field of our development cooperation organisations. There would be no real practical reason to shift the focus now so strongly and strongly to companies and to the private side. To throw away resources and know-how is a stupid policy, but for many years NGOs have been doing this work with excellent efforts and excellent projects. They also have good relations with developing countries, and above all they should be exploited and not reduced or even stopped. However, this transfer of funds to private companies and their projects has been a clear choice of values from the government, and the results will indeed remain to be seen. The drastic and sudden cuts in development cooperation, 43%, have particularly hampered the work of organisations that should be involved in the implementation of the government's objectives. Plan estimates that as many as 180 children will be excluded from their assistance. World Vision is forced to cut aid from 120 children. The church’s foreign aid has to cut the support from about 500,000 people in total. Solidarity will put an end to a project that has helped 50,000 people, and it has done a special job on violence against women. These are just isolated examples. However, they are very clear about the reality of what, unfortunately, we are trying to conceal with these very good and beautiful words of the report on development policy. Women's and girls' rights are not promoted by giving money to businesses. They are promoted only by direct work for and for women and girls. Although the objective of developing economies in developing countries is a good one, it must not fall short of precisely the most important objective that should help those who are particularly disadvantaged. For example, development cooperation through donations alone, or aid mainly through companies, may not be the option to achieve the very best result in humane terms. From the point of view of the functioning of society and the inclusion of democracy, it should also be those excluded people, such as those with no caste, or those with disabilities, who are particularly in need of its support. And, of course, we must also involve our own countries strongly in this work. Finland has been a bigger influence in international politics. Building peace and democracy, sustainable development and equality have long been our goals. Similarly, respect has brought a reputation as a cooperative country, both in Europe and in the world. Of course, we have been proud of this so far. That is what we must also stick to, and now, if ever, would be the place for a plan to really restore Finland's development aid to a high level and always ultimately to 0.7% of GDP. When this debate has followed, we must thank the Minister for saying that he was sorry that these additional cuts had to be made in connection with the frameworks, but it seems very amazing that for some representatives and political parties this is a victory, as it were, that they were able to cut just those weaker people in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u78	Madam President! I would like to refer to the last speaker's final statement to the extent that, although the government has made very significant and sad cuts in development cooperation, the central objective is to achieve 0.7% of development expenditure on gross national income. That has always been our objective, and it will continue to be, and we are trying to work towards it, even though the economic situation is very difficult at the moment. Mr President! Development policy is an integral part of Finland's foreign and security policy, and Finland has a long tradition as a responsible and competent development policy actor. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs also states in its unanimous report, the Development Policy Report is a good opening for Finland's development cooperation priorities, which are justified. I would like to raise a few very important points. First of all, I would also like to highlight what has emerged in this Chamber debate: improving the position of women and girls and supporting their social participation. It has been studied that one of the prerequisites for stable social development and prosperity is for women and girls to get to school and improve their social position. The committee quite rightly points out that more should also be taken into account in relation to discrimination against and against women and girls. Secondly, support for developing countries' own economic development is a very large part of the overall development of society and has been very well addressed in the development policy agenda. This also, of course, reflects the great development policy approach, which is increasingly moving towards one-way, direct financial assistance towards bilateral partnerships that emphasise cooperation and solidarity. Global problems already touch both rich and poor countries on the basis of their names and therefore call for joint efforts. I think it is very important that the livelihoods of developing countries are developed and that we are able to provide them with Finnish expertise to help them. Thirdly, strengthening the democratic and functional capacity of societies is equally important. This objective can be promoted, not only by strengthening the tax base and the ability to raise taxes in developing countries, but also by fighting corruption, for example. Yesterday, in this Chamber debate, when we talked about combating the Finnish shadow economy and preventing tax evasion, we do, for example, have a very high level of expertise in promoting these at the very top level of the world, so that we can also offer this side as part of development cooperation. Only democratic and capable states can develop in a truly sustainable way. I am also pleased that food security is a priority. These major issues relating to water, access to energy, the sustainable use of natural resources are, unfortunately, more and more likely to be the cause of the conflict. The lack of food, water, energy, natural resources also drives people around. The report on development policy takes the right view of the overall picture. I think it recognises the continuity and coherence that has long been achieved in Finland through various elements: direct support, traditional development cooperation support for NGOs, multilateral support for, for example, UN organisations, support for mediation, investment through Finnfund. These form a whole. I have to say that Finnfund also finances a lot of projects which are acutely linked to this major issue of asylum. For the refugee crisis in Jordan, there is a solar power plant funded by Finnfund, which rises very close to a large refugee camp. This too is a help and a way to respond to this refugee crisis, and that is what has been called for here too. Despite the smallness of the population, Finland must make and continue active development cooperation. However, unlike some of the Nordic countries, we have not taken funds from development cooperation funds for asylum seekers. The long-term objective is to achieve 0.7% of gross national income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u79	Madam President! The reform of development policy is important. Development policy must be effective so that developing countries can stand on their own feet and provide their citizens with livelihoods and peaceful living conditions. This will also curb migration abroad. In Finland’s development policy, priority has been given to strengthening the rights and status of girls and women in particular. The training and work of women contribute to the well-being of families, as the family of an equal woman is lower than average, healthier and more educated, which boosts social development. The development of their own economies will be supported, as without a sustainable economic base, poverty and inequality cannot be eliminated. Economic growth creates jobs and helps people to prosper. The development of tax systems is important for the financing of society’s capacity to function and public services. Finland also invests in the development of tax rules in order to eradicate international tax avoidance and illegal financial flows. At present, more capital escapes from developing countries than flows in. The IMF estimates that developing countries will lose up to $200 billion a year due to tax avoidance by multinationals. Madam President! Sustainable use of natural resources will provide a basis for food security, ensure access to clean water, improve nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. In this area, Finland has a lot to offer to developing countries as a high-quality provider of clean technology and bioeconomy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u80	Madam President! The Government's Development Policy Report is an excellent document. It records the progress made in the world and gives faith in development. Development policy objectives have been achieved. Extreme poverty has been halved, child mortality reduced, access to school improved. The stoking of hopelessness, which overshadowed development policy, is falling into the background. There is no point in saying that poverty and hunger are increasing, no matter what we do. On the contrary, the objectives of the new 2030 Agenda, such as the eradication of extreme poverty in its entirety, are quite achievable. When reading the document, it also seems that there is a national consensus on development policy across party boundaries and over government terms. It is understood that Finland's security requires global responsibility. In Finland, there is no response to the policy of closing borders. Mr President! The words are beautiful and the document is well written. It is therefore a crying injustice that these words do not really have anything to do with the actions of the government. Actions would be financial contributions to development cooperation. Unfortunately, their balance is shocking. A fifth of the last year alone would be sufficient to show that the development aid target of 0.7% of GDP has been buried. The truth is even worse. This year, the actual development cooperation will receive one third less funding than last year. Since 2014, funding has almost halved. The work of NGOs in development policy is particularly valuable in many ways. From our country of origin, the value of state financial support is increased by the fact that the money given has a leverage effect. The government's money comes under the responsibility of the organisations themselves, especially in the form of voluntary work. From the point of view of the beneficiaries, the work of the organisations is even more important. In Syria, for example, the warring parties are most confident in providing emergency aid to UN actors. Under the United Nations' shields, help will reach us. Finland should support the work of its own UN Federation and its organisations and take care of a stronger chain of activities from here to home country, always in crisis areas. Instead of support, organisations are now allowed to struggle with budget cuts. Mr President! The government must change its development policy in such a way that acts correspond to lofty words. Development cooperation needs additional funding. Let's give it to him, even though we're having trouble ourselves. People can take it. Make an improvement and turn around in the next budget debate, Mr Toivakka. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u81	Madam President! I've been raised to think good, speak good and do good. That is why it is extremely repugnant to complain about anything in this world in general. But sometimes you have to start your speech, even as you did here this time, that this is an unusually bad performance. This is a good endeavour and, as has been said in many speeches here, it promises a great deal and describes the whole very well, but then takes away the conditions for things to be done. I would like to raise a few points here. I believe that the Minister is well aware of these pain points too, but there are a few things I really want to ask here. One of them is whether the Minister is aware that these Finnfund projects, many of them, are aimed at Asia, China, Shanghai and Russia, which cannot be regarded as such traditional development projects, and then the money invested there is being targeted, even though this Peikko Group, in the renewal of the prefabricated factory, is now taking place to make new production facilities for a Finnish entrepreneur. In China, or in Russia, a group of forest machines that will also set up new factories and sales points in the St.Petersburg region, or an extension of the Finnish factory in India. These may not be such traditional development cooperation targets. That is why, now that this priority in our development cooperation is clearly being changed from the organisational side to the investment side, it is very good to take these into account. Well, here's the upside. Now that this is the case, and although it has been said here that the cuts are too large, more will be cut and that is the direction at the moment, then the good aspects will be that this cooperation between Finnfund and the organisations should be improved. I therefore hope that the Minister will see and take strong initiatives here to ensure that Finnfund and the organisations find each other. Then you could say that something good could come out of this change of focus, which would then be clearly visible on the ground. We believe that the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, in which I am an alternate, made a very good statement on this, as the Minister said in his speech. Particular attention will be paid to this effectiveness here: "The use of funds and financial control of organisations receiving development co-financing is already being carried out under a very strict reporting procedure and, for example, through the use of financial resources. through supervision by international audit offices. Now that, in accordance with the Government Programme, the Government has stated that Finland's focus on development funding will be transferred to countries developing through responsible companies, the Committee considers it important that the same reporting requirements apply to all actors receiving development funding, such as financiers, organisations and companies and communities. The effectiveness of all actors must also be systematically assessed." Again: "The committee emphasises the monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of Finnfund's operations. The funder's activities must be transparent and transparent. In addition, the Committee stresses that the development of financial instruments should pay particular attention to performance indicators and to their relevance to the nature of each project activity and to measuring the genuinely desirable development effects." There is no reason to doubt that Finnfund could act as a good development partner and there is no reason to discredit Finnfund either. But, of course, when these cuts are as large as they are, there is a concern that this monitoring will work, and even in this case, this diminishing money will go to the right places. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u82	Madam President! In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the fact that an evaluation of the effectiveness of the work of NGOs has been launched at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. So far, relatively little is known about the effectiveness of organizational work. Both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own reports and Ritva Reinika's independent assessment of the effectiveness and effectiveness of Finland's development cooperation show that so far the monitoring and reporting of results in development policy has been weak. As a result, the evaluation of the programmes has suffered. I find it extremely worrying that decades of money has been poured into development cooperation from the state budget, and the situation is still that the effectiveness and effectiveness of development are obscure. They are a key issue when the opposition here, for several hours now and with tens of speeches, is, of course, criticising the fact that the GDP ratio is small compared to the EU's and the UN's objectives. I would like to ask the person on the left whether the most important thing is how much aid comes through. Even if the ratio is equal to 1% or 10%, would it not mean a larger amount thrown into Kankkula well and corruption? This is the view of former Ambassador Matti Kääriäinen, who worked for 40 years in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on development aid. About a year ago, a book was published about him called the Curse of Development Aid. In an interview with the Helsingin Sanomat in January last year, this former Ambassador of Finland to Mozambique and Kenya said that if Finland stopped developing aid in Mozambique immediately tomorrow, nothing in Mozambique would change. It is self-evident that the help given by Finland is also lost in corruption. Nothing else is possible when aid is given to the most corrupt countries in the world. Anyone who says that money is not going to corruption could tell us where it is going, he said. The article states that poverty has not decreased much in sub-Saharan Africa, precisely in the countries that have received the most development aid. With strong population growth, the number of people living in extreme poverty in these countries has increased despite decades of development aid. So development aid does not reduce poverty. According to the wrapper, Finland’s failure to meet that 0.7% target is good. Less money has been wasted. Now the aim of development aid is not to produce results, but to make a certain amount of money go away," he says. Madam President! A concrete example of the money that has been wasted by Kääriäinen can be found in Jordan. In the middle of Christmas, the Web News published an article that reported that the huge Syrian refugee camp, funded by the Finnish Red Cross, is almost deserted. Azrao world-wide Great Refugee Camp. But contrary to Western expectations, the Syrians did not escape there, even though it is only 90 miles [90 km] from the Syrian border. "Azraqavat in April 2014. It was supposed to accommodate some 130,000 war breakers. About 15,000 people now live in the houses. The roads are deserted. Of the first four villages built, there is no one living in two, and there are about fifty trading places empty." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u83	Madam President! In the report on Finland’s development cooperation, women and girls are right to be at the forefront. That is also something on which I would like to say a few words. The allocation of available development funds after the cuts needs to be further considered. One of the main priorities of the government's development policy is to improve the position of women and girls, which is the right emphasis, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also drawn particular attention to this in its opinion. Since 2006, the World Economic Forum has published the Gender Equality Index, which examines the state of gender equality in different countries through four different indicators. During the follow-up period, gender equality has improved globally and the participation of women in politics and working life has increased. At the same time, however, educational differences between men and women have increased in 22% of the countries examined. According to the latest estimate of the World Economic Forum, we will not achieve equality of men and women in employment internationally until 2133 — that is, in 117 years’ time. Education for girls and women has long been known to be the key to combating poverty, increasing prosperity and curbing population growth. Nevertheless, nearly two thirds of the world’s illiterate are women. In many cases, the schoolway started by girls is interrupted as a result of child marriage or sexual violence. We know that the more educated the girls are, the later they usually marry and the less children they have. The education of girls and women thus strengthens human rights and democracy and, in particular, women's ability to decide on their own lives and to take part in their own life and social decision-making. Madam President! In terms of sustainable and effective development cooperation, our focus must be increasingly on education and especially on exporting Finnish educational know-how to developing countries. The Finnish education system and the school system, teacher education — these are the world's top class, which is why education professionals need to be more closely integrated into Finnish development cooperation. Particularly important in improving and achieving education globally is investing in quality teacher education, where Finns are the world's top. We have a lot to offer here. The education of girls improves the well-being of the community as a whole and, ultimately, the world as a whole. Through education exports and Finnish know-how, we can combat poverty and promote equality. It is therefore particularly important to ensure that the focus of Finnish development cooperation is increasing in education and in exporting our Finnish education skills, using the expertise of our teaching professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u84	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! First, Mr Laukkanen, he wisely mentioned that Finnfund and the organisations should find each other: I myself have raised the issue in the UAV several times that this valuable experience and professionalism of NGOs would be used. The migration crisis in Europe has also shown how important effective and effective development cooperation is. Development policy must be consistent with other policy areas. That is essential. Finland, a small but experienced and professional development actor, must target its operations using its special expertise. For example, Finland has even unique skills in reproductive and sexual health issues, which can contribute to curbing, for example, the worrying rapid population growth in Africa. Improving the position of women and girls as one of the priorities of our development policy is something that I am particularly pleased about as such a Finnish female parliamentarian. What we take for granted here in Finland is not in many developing countries. When I was working in UN civilian crisis management, I represented a UN that respected and promoted human rights, including a Finnish police officer, but also an equal female gender. Mr President! Two years in Africa: I think of a number of examples of shortcomings in relation to the position of women and girls. I was thinking about the encounter when an early teen-year-old girl, about 12 years old, with her belly bottled, not from food, but from pregnancy, looks at the European UN Police Commissioner, the Finnish female police officer, with her eyes pressed from under the corner. At the same time, there was the shame of his condition — a child pregnant and married to an old man without teeth — but there was also curiosity in that look, perhaps even admiration, when he saw a woman in a position that he could not dream of in practice. Many teenage mothers die of childbirth in developing countries because the child’s body is not ready for childbirth. Mr President! We often talk critically about our value choices here in the Chamber. For example, cuts to Finnish education have admittedly been painful, but when you look at them from the perspective of developing countries, every child who even gets to school, even if under a shaded tree in a refugee camp, taught by a volunteer teacher, a refugee himself, the joy of learning, the gratitude for teaching is something that we Finns have forgotten long ago. The chairman of our Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Kaikkonen, in his speech on Finland's development policy and our committee's opinion on it, largely 'already cleared the pajatson', so I will not repeat those important aspects again. Representative Elomaa raised the issue of young people in developing countries and the prevention of radicalisation. It was an extremely important observation that the right development policy also affects our own security. The fact is, too, that in countries where the majority of the population is under 25 years of age and where youth unemployment is really gloomy and culture also requires funds for marriage, the survival strategy for these young people is emigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u85	Madam President! As we all know, Finland is in a situation where every place has to be cut. This also happens with regard to development aid, this has also been the policy of the Finns of Peru. Development aid has been provided for decades, and what has been the result? The elite of the developing countries are just blubbering, and corruption is rampant. Money and help haven't reached the person who really needs help. It is certain that much better results will be achieved in the future with a lower allocation. The trends reported in the report are in the right direction. This Chamber debate has on several occasions been likened to a cut in development aid and the refugee crisis. I do not think that there is any point in comparing them. The influx of refugees that started last summer would probably have reached Finland too, no matter how much money we invested in development aid. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u86	Madam President! It would be important to invest in development cooperation — not only, of course, in the sense that every person is equally valuable and needs help, especially in those circumstances where there are difficulties, but also from the point of view of the donor countries, from the point of view of their own interests. Contagious diseases, terrorism, refugees or drugs, for example, are problems that cross borders. For example, by supporting the development of alternative incomes in countries where the economy is largely based on drug production, drug supply can then be reduced here in our own neighbourhoods. There are also good examples of the history of Finland’s development cooperation. In Peru, for example, an alternative cultivation programme was implemented in the 1990s, with the support of Finland, when farmers were offered assistance in the transition to legal crops, and cocaine crops were greatly reduced. I do not believe that development aid and, on the other hand, helping the poor in their own country should be put against each other. If, in political will, the view of solidarity overtakes selfishness, both will be helped. And yes, we rich countries have both the privilege and the moral obligation to help the poorest of the poor, and development cooperation is an essential hallmark of a civilised state. It is therefore, of course, very sad to live in a time when almost half of the resources allocated to development cooperation are being reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u87	Madam President! In this economic situation, it is also necessary to cut back on this development aid. When the cup's empty, it's not so good. You don't have to do that with debt money. It doesn't help anyone. By the way, the results that have been there — I personally went there to do it voluntarily, and what was done there: they took good Finnish machines to rust into the jungle. I think it's a nut job. But I'm going to pick up on the last one because we're running out of time. The construction of Azraq has cost the European Union some EUR 140 million, among other things. A giant place is described as a deserted and haunted camp. The camp is run by the U.N. Together with the Red Crosses of Norway, Germany and Canada, the Finnish Red Cross managed the construction of the hospital and assisted Azraq in many other ways. The hospital is now closed. I understand these camps are well-managed. Circumstances are reasonable for those who actually run for their lives. There are health services with hospitals, there is education and play for children, there is clean water, food and clothing. Why is the camp practically empty? Because camp conditions are not good enough for those in Europe who say they have fled for their lives, but in reality they are the backpackers who come after free social security. Mr President! So much: There is a pilgrimage near Mecca with air - conditioned tents for more than 2 million pilgrims. These are state-of-the-art conditions and completely empty for almost the whole year. How do these refugees, who are also talking about tolerance and all these things, not go to camps and those other Islamic countries do not take those Islamists there, or whatever they are, but are brought here? There's some kind of so-called corruption in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u88	Madam President! It would be outright nonsense populism to claim that the influx of asylum seekers to Finland would be caused by the current government cutting aid appropriations by EUR 200 million. The belt that has been targeted at Europe — or at least Finland — is, moreover, mainly representative of the so-called'refugee' of living standards. This phenomenon on this scale began to occur when the previous government budget was in force, i.e. in autumn 2015. According to studies in a society of scarce economic resources, the priority target that Finns want to see cut out of development cooperation appropriations is justified, and this government, in which the Finns of Finland are involved, took this wish first. In relative terms, development cooperation appropriations are the government's largest reduction target. Thank you to the government for that. At last, hypocrisy and the belief that alms are used to deal with world political shortcomings have been abandoned. Mr President! We should not set the population against each other, but I will. We have demented elderly people lying alone in their homes, and we have to cut the services and social benefits of many Finns and increase service charges. It would be more than wrong not to touch the development aid funds when Finns have to prioritise in their everyday lives. The same opposition, which now wants to increase development funds, wants to increase all the other good things in themselves. Only a fool can believe that such an equation will actually succeed under these circumstances. Mr President! More strongly, I feel that the three different parties in this government are united by one thing, and that is economic realism. There has also been a stronger feeling that the present opposition parties are united by economic idealism. Perhaps because of this polarised situation, even in the name of maintaining the credibility of parliamentaryism — and indeed the preservation of parliamentaryism in general — it should be considered that the next parliamentary elections should no longer be led by the eyes, but that coalitions should be formed before the elections, on the basis of which the Finnish Government will then be built after the elections and the line will enjoy the support of the majority of the people with certainty. In this way we could really be sure that the will of the majority of the people will come true, not only with regard to Parliament but also with regard to the basis of government. Such a commitment to cooperation would also be a strong signal from the present government parties to the citizens that we really believe that the broad thrust of government policy is the right one and ultimately enjoy the support of the majority of citizens when the truth is right in the eyes. Mr President! I am confident that, when the polls are real, this current government base will clearly receive more than half of the votes to be cast, and at the same time I am firmly convinced that the current opposition as a coalition, or even if only as a coalition on the green left, would not have such a mandate to assume responsibility. After all, in this exceptionally difficult economic situation for the government, the opposition has received surprisingly bad grades from the citizens in the TNS Gallup study. It tells us that many of the government's measures may not please or at least provoke cheers, but they are perceived to be credible in comparison to the opposition's activities, which lack a real vision of Finnish society. In opposition policy, Finland would easily be led to help others themselves. Finns must now help themselves so that we can help more others when Finland gets back on its feet. The motto of the Finns Party has been: "First Finnish work and trying, if there is time and money left, then the world will be better." The government and the government parties have incorporated and adopted this line of action, and it can be given honest recognition to the entire team. We do well to defend ourselves as a united team against the excessive attacks of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u89	Madam President! Mr Hakkarainen has highlighted the shortcomings and failures in development cooperation, and they are also true, but although there are many examples in history of how development funds have been misallocated or taken to the wrong hands, the overall help has been effective. We see it, for example, in the numbers of infant mortality or illiteracy, which have developed dramatically over the last decades in developing countries. I say that it is the NGOs which have the grass roots of the local population, such as the missionary organisations that I myself know, that are doing their work very effectively, and that is why it is a pity that it is the NGOs that have been so heavily cut. I would also like to remind you that we ourselves have been recipients of development aid in the past. After the wars Unicef provided Finland with food and other donations, supported research, supported health education and care for disabled children in Finland, and even in the 50s and 60s, when I was a child, Unicef’s funds created pre-term clinics in Finland and provided research tools for clinics and children’s hospitals, and for its part this help, which Finland received, has borne fruit: Finnish children’s health is now the world’s top level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u90	Mr President! Mr Räsänen is right, of course, that Finland has received development aid in the past, and, as I myself said earlier, Marshall aid, which the United States channeled into Europe, which is plagued by the Second World War, was development aid. But what has happened since then? Let's look at Finland now: of course we've made a lot of progress, we're no longer in the area of development aid, that's good. But then many of these countries that are currently receiving development aid, for example one of the largest recipients, where Finland has also channelled the most money, namely Tanzania, still rely on development aid after all these decades. So if we look at the end of the period of immigration in the African countries, when they became independent, it has already been 50 to 60 years, depending on the country, that is, it can no longer be considered that such thinking, 'yes, then', would apply because it has been so long since these countries became independent that we should have gradually moved forward. A good example of a country that has made progress is Vietnam, but there were market economy reforms, there was a global market economy, there was a rise in the country. In fact, all the examples that are positive in terms of development cooperation, the development of the country, are linked to the fact that it has finally been understood to introduce a market economy system. Of course, it must be done in a fair way, but nevertheless. In this previous speech, Minister, I raised this 0.7% target. You noticed that I even gave it a lot of criticism and suspicions, mainly because it seems to be a historically quite windy target that has no specific basis, even though it is a UN recommendation. Why does it have to be 0.7%? Consider the United States: 0.2% of GDP is spent on development aid and the United States is still praised for it. In other words, I would hope that not only Finland in the forefront but the whole international community will be able to find the right objective that we could pursue, and not an objective that does not have a real basis for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u91	The Minister will answer, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u92	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you very much for this debate. This has been very necessary, and here are some interesting points of view. I would also like to thank you for the support given to the Development Policy Report, and in particular its priorities. I admit, of course, that when funding is tighter, we have made truly regrettable cuts, for which I personally am sorry. We have had to think about how to target each euro more effectively, so that aid can reach where the need for assistance is greatest. But in this context I would also like to thank those who have done this work, namely Finnish NGOs and above all development cooperation actors, international organisations and partner countries, because there has been a great deal of work done there, that Finland's reputation is still good and that we are able to continue this good development cooperation, which has already been done in the past, despite these painful cuts. But here the priorities were commended, and women and girls in particular were strongly raised, and I am glad that this is the job and the message that we want to continue to take from Finland to the world, and we are expected to give our views and support in promoting this important objective. Another issue that will be much support and request from the world is the strengthening of the economic environment in developing countries, the strengthening of the economy and the creation of an economy to strengthen its own business. This is strongly in the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, and this has been in the hopes of our Development Policy Commission over the last period, and it is therefore very important that we support Finnfund’s activities as well as other funds that promote private sector opportunities in developing countries and, above all, create the kind of investment that these countries themselves want, develop infrastructure, renewable energy, bioeconomy, cleantech, that is to say, export the much-needed know-how and investment that will help people in developing countries. For example, cheaper and more sustainable electricity is very important in many countries, and such projects we have in Africa as well as elsewhere in the developing world. This work has already been done together with NGOs and businesses at this stage. The question was very much asked about how NGOs and businesses have found each other, and I am glad that we have organised more round tables, where it is precisely wanted that the knowledge of NGOs and the interest of the Finnish private sector in developing countries should find each other and that they could cooperate more, and this has been very well received. I hope that this work will continue. I believe that everyone will benefit from it, especially those people in developing countries who need our help. Finally, I would like to raise this humanitarian aid, which has, in fact, been raised in many speeches, which is important. We all know that the need for humanitarian aid is particularly great at the moment: there are prolonged crises, there are problems caused by climate change, there are human conflicts. The good news is that we have been able to help a record number, a large number of people at the moment, but the need for help is still enormous. By the end of this year, Finland already allocated EUR 61 million in humanitarian aid to crises and people most in need of humanitarian aid. These include food aid, health aid, training and protection needs, such as the Syrian crisis just inside Syria, neighbouring countries, Yemen, which is experiencing a huge humanitarian crisis at the moment, South Sudan, Ethiopia, which is suffering from drought. The worst thing about this is that many of these crises have been going on for years — they are not acute, they are the crises that have arisen right now. In other words, it is not just food aid and shelter that is needed, but we should be able to provide, as Mr Haavisto said very well here at the beginning of the debate, the kind of help that provides training for young people who have lived in refugee camps for years, for example, in the midst of a prolonged crisis, or the opportunity to work. This also requires a private sector to be involved. I myself went to the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan, where, among other things, there was a strong hope that there would be a real need for training in these crisis situations. After all, there is now a humanitarian summit in Istanbul for the first time, and it is intended to discuss precisely how humanitarian aid and such capacity-building assistance can be better linked together and able to provide the kind of help that is needed in prolonged crises. I myself am going to this meeting and I look forward to it. I also expect from this meeting and from development cooperation in general what many people have raised here, namely that we will be able to prevent and prejudge the fact that the need for humanitarian aid will not arise and that there will be no crises. That is why all forms of development cooperation in the form that we have stressed in the priorities will continue to be important. Thank you for this and I hope that Finland will continue to work for an international, open and tolerant Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u93	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u94	Mr President! On behalf of Sitra’s Board of Directors, a few words for the presentation of this referral debate. I am trying to extract from the report something essential that perhaps it is good to take into account in the parliamentary reading. After all, Sitra is a fund established by Parliament during the 50th anniversary of Finland, whose task is to anticipate the future and to take action that will help Finland to survive in the future. Its modes of operation and perhaps focus have changed and developed over the decades. In the beginning, it did some investment in individual companies and sought to develop business in well thought-out sectors. Today, it can be said, of those original tasks, this foresight work has survived. It sniffs the air from the world’s megatrends and seeks to find ways of working in Finland to help Finland cope with the future. Sitra’s current assessment is that the pace of change in the world is increasing and the ability of nations to renew themselves, to take a long look at the future and to take decisions in this time, to make decisions that will make it easier to adapt to this future, and also to give us a little advantage in making models that would also be lost in exports. Various foresight reports in the world have long described the profound transformation that shakes Western societies in particular. This transformation is reflected in people’s everyday lives: the recent influx of asylum seekers, the disappearance of jobs and why not in the queues of health centres. In Finland, these characteristics typical of Western societies are further enhanced by our narrow economic structure, the resulting economic distress and the growing sustainability gap in public finances. Sitra’s role as a public independent future organisation and driver of change is very important, perhaps even more important than ever before. At the moment, Sitra’s vision and strategy aim to turn the challenges of megatrends into Finland’s competitive edge. At the moment, you can say that there are three valid estimates in megatrends. These are rapidly developing technologies, a mutually dependent world and a global sustainability crisis related to natural resources and climate change. From these megatrends, three themes have been derived from Sitra’s activities. They are broadly renewable, resource-wise and carbon-neutral society and, thirdly, new working life and a sustainable economy. The aim is to turn these megatrends into Finland's competitive edge. What, then, is this in practice? If the main results from the 2015 Board's report are drawn from the activities, first of all, it can be said that Sitra's long-term work on developing social and health care services has now reached the stage where such packages of services supporting social welfare reform were launched in 30 localities and provide valuable information for the practical implementation of the reform. In addition, Sitra’s virtual clinic in Hämeenlinna is now being developed into a national online self-care service. The genome strategy, which was completed last summer, creates capabilities and rules for the utilisation of genetic data. On this basis, the government took a final decision on this genome strategy and its financing in the spending limits debate. Ecological sustainability Sitra was very active in climate policy last year, participated in the Paris climate conference and is bringing up the circular economy as a new economic model. In connection with this, Sitra is running a series of international Smart & Clean reference sites, which are built in Finland as a collaboration between the state, the cities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and Sitra. Sitra’s operations are, in fact, entirely based on the return on core capital. There is also some business financing, but its importance is rather marginal. Sitra’s initial contribution to its core capital is found at a donation from the State and the Bank of Finland from 49 years ago. Since then, other decisions have been taken. At the end of 15, the market value of core capital amounted to EUR 771 million and this investment property produced a return of 5.7 per cent. In fact, the whole of Sitra’s activities are financed by these revenues. Last year's economic surplus was significant. The surplus was EUR 26 million. It was an exceptionally high surplus. For the most part, it is explained by one successful sale of shares. Sitra sold Fibrogen's shares in May-June last year. This is a company that Sitra made 22 years ago as the first owner, a founding shareholder, an investment, and it won more than EUR 18 million. Even Sitra rarely sees such returns, and that return moves to strengthen the fund. This public and political debate has discussed whether this Sitra balance sheet is unnecessarily strong. It is not a matter for the Board of Directors to decide on, but it is a matter for the other bodies, ultimately Parliament, which has been set up by the Fund in due course. This report will certainly provide an opportunity to assess this in this respect, if Parliament and the committee want to do so. From Sitra’s point of view, I would stress that Sitra’s balance sheet, which is a fund, has a different meaning than in normal business operations. In normal business operations, the balance sheet is, of course, a measure of solvency. Against that, the company can borrow into the development and investment of the actual business, and then, in fact, they will live on the profits of its business. At Sitra, revenues are generated by the value of this balance sheet. If Sitra’s balance sheet is reduced, transferred for other purposes, Sitra’s annual income is reduced and its volume of operations is reduced, its future work, research work, projects are reduced and reduced. Mr President! With these words, Sitra’s Annual Activity Report has been presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u95	Madam President! Sitra’s task is to improve Finland’s well-being and competitiveness. In the Annual Report, we can read that Sitra’s operations are financed by the proceeds of core capital and corporate finance. At the end of 2015, the market capital value of Sitra’s core capital was EUR 771 million and investment assets produced 5.7 per cent. So it is not a matter of small activity. Sitra’s role as a public, independent future organisation and driver of change is now more important than ever before. Sitra’s vision and strategy turn the challenges of megatrends into Finland’s competitive edge. The focus must be on people's overall well-being and economic sustainability. In the field of ecological sustainability, Finland and Sitra were profiled at the Paris climate conference as a strong expert on international climate policy, and in Finland the circular economy as a new economic model became known to Finns. In Sitra’s operations, the challenges of megatrends and the direction of vision have been broken down into three themes, each containing several fixed-term projects. All of these are urgently needed today in our national economy in every province of Finland. The future is not just Sitra's role as a future organisation, but the role of the whole parliament and Finnish society. With regard to the three themes of this year's Annual Activity Report and Sitra, I will focus mainly on one: resource-wise and carbon-neutral society. A resource-wise and carbon-neutral society focuses on the sustainable combination of well-being, economy and resource use by building a forerunner in resource-wise and carbon-neutral activities. Since I come from the easternmost bioregion in Finland, I would like to emphasise in particular that the home of the bioeconomy is in the provinces. A carbon-neutral society is resource-wise and requires the much-speaked bioeconomy, which is also one of the top projects in the Government Programme. This has been overlooked in previous years and the report focuses on the changing needs of society caused by climate change, but also on the opportunities it offers. Although the causes of climate change are controversial, the effects are not necessarily positive either. I suppose it can still be said out loud that this is an opportunity, as the report says about the possibilities for promoting business. The report has highlighted the circular economy as a growth sector. The circular economy as a new economic model has become known to Finns. Biomass based bioeconomy is also a circular economy. The forest is a natural solar panel and carbon sink, and it is also a carbon storer. Forests and biomasses are a natural resource that does not shrink because of Finnish traditional sustainable forestry, but grows again. Even at the moment, we have an estimated 50 million cubic metres of forest cutbacks. We need management fellings to safeguard forest yields and at the same time secure wood raw material for both chemical and mechanical wood processing throughout the country. Madam President! Here we must once again highlight the provinces with their potential. In my own country, North Karelia, we are already doing more than a step ahead of the forest-based bioeconomy, and I believe that its operating conditions will be secured in the future. We need jobs and jobs that do not run off to countries with lower production costs and which are growing export sectors. Marketing and training play an essential role in this. We need training places in regions where the bioeconomy is growing and developing. Sitra also highlights local food as part of a successful circular economy. That is an excellent thing. We need more purchasing skills to take advantage of local food in the public sector. As the report states, the circular economy is a matter of will, so the use of local food and, in my opinion, organic food in particular is a matter of will. Local food strategies and fair competition should be made more courageous in municipalities, emphasising the production and consumption of food close to food and emphasising the importance of organic food. Food losses should be eliminated because transporting food also causes emissions. Thus, when the food is transported into the garbage, emissions are virtually useless. Madam President! It is easy to ignore the national economic significance of the process. Every year, those hunting and fishing in state lands bring millions of euros of benefits and hundreds of man-years of work to the affected regions. Most money is spent on fuels, retailers, accommodations and restaurants. In my opinion, this is part of the wilderness economy and thus part of the circular economy. As part of nature tourism, hunting and fishing are a growth sector in many European countries, and we also have excellent conditions for this in Finland. Our regions offer ecosystem services, the opportunity to refresh themselves in clean nature, but also the opportunity to hunt and fish. This was not even reduced by the Metsähallitus Act, which was discussed earlier in the winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u96	Mr President! As has been said here, it is Sitra's job to look to the future and train and develop us in the face of these challenges. As such, these themes, which are at stake here — the challenges of technology, opportunities, climate change and nature, thus overall sustainable development and also a sustainable economy — are important themes in general. In this respect, this theme selection is certainly very timely and good, which Sitra has been working on. President! I wanted to take this floor mainly because Mr Vanhanen also referred to Sitra's future and balance sheet and the debate that has taken place. As Social Democrats, we have also seen Sitra's future organisation in such a way that Sitra currently has an enormously strong balance sheet, as we all know. It has its own history. This base capital was increased in 1992 with Nokia shares, and then favourable conditions led to Sitra’s strong balance sheet today, which is EUR 771 million here. We have had a lot of talk in society about the balance sheets working. In this situation, we have thought that Sitra’s balance sheet could well now be put to work, i.e. to contribute to future investments. So, as Social Democrats, we have suggested that half of this balance sheet should be taken into future work by funding the repair and construction of children, schools, kindergartens, libraries so conveniently suited to this moment, and that it is precisely in this construction and development work that Sitra's important priorities, such as resource-efficient society, ecology, digitality, all of this, could also be included, and in that way we would see a lot of opportunities for the future. That is why, President, I very much hope for what the rapporteur has said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u97	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen gave a very good presentation of the valuable work he had done. Sitra itself does, and there is no room for reproach in itself, and above all, if we still think that we do not have too many such bodies or institutions in Finland who will look at these megatrends of the world in the longer term and see how we set ourselves in that framework. I would therefore like Sitra to focus even more in the future on the perception of these silent signals, the perception of future developments and how we in this global world will be able to find our own place in the world economy, as we all know. Sitra emphasises the technology, ict-side and this importance of interdependence in this strategic thinking. After all, Sitra has set the ambitious goal that our growth should be disconnected from the waste of natural resources. Of course, this is a challenging species, but it is also a great opportunity for us, because in Finland, however, the potential for energy efficiency and environmental technology is also important for exports. And I would hope that perhaps less, then, Sitra would focus on issues such as day politics or the labour market. So I would put those resources in that longer-term development work, ideas and vision, and to contribute to its work, I would like to do so. One such is the circular economy. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has considered this issue in consultation with many experts and attaches great importance to it. After all, Sitra has done quite good basic work on this subject, but this would perhaps require that Finland be drawn up by the Government and with extensive cooperation such as a wider circular economy road map. Sitra could act as a kind of base and builder of this extensive road map that would be prepared between civil society, companies and municipalities, households and administration and would help to do its work. I think it would be a great thing if we could find one of these and the government actually adopted such a goal: a vision of a circular economy, a road map for Finland. Finally, I would just like to refer to what Mr Viitanen said about this balance sheet. I also welcome the fact that the President also started to discuss this with a great deal of enthusiasm, including from the perspective of whether it is possible to disengage some of these balance sheets to other needs of society without jeopardising Sitra's actual work and future. I think that we would then be able to move forward on this too, and I think that there is room for scrutiny. But as the report says, in principle Sitra is doing a very good and valuable job in this society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u98	Madam President! Sitra’s report has been produced in a very interesting way, and it is nice to read this. I think that Sitra’s most important service to Finnish society is to be able to create models that will enable society to be reformed and implemented and particularly to support the necessary structural reforms. I myself drew attention here to the projects and models that support the reform of social and health services. Of particular interest is the experiment and the project that brings together digital self-care as a virtual clinic concept. After all, this has been tested in Hämeenlinna for a year, and this concept has already expanded to several locations. I see that there is a great deal of scope for further development here. Another one that I personally have also personally familiarised with is the model that has been imported from abroad, and in this, Sitra has been well informed that in recent years, we have also been looking for viable solutions in the world that have then been brought to services for both young and elderly people. Here, the Mut project, which has been launched in my own home town, Riihimäki, is very interesting in order to prevent the exclusion of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u99	Mr President! I believe that Sitra’s activities, together with all of them, are very strong in the development of this society. Of course, every project and every project must be looked at on the basis of achievements, as is the case in all other parts of society, but I do see that many of the things that have been referred to here — and we have just talked about social and health care, Mr Ihalainen talked about circular economy — are precisely the key sectors for which new ideas are needed in Finnish society and which can then be used, for example, on the circular economy side, also in international exports and others. I see that these are the things that it is wise to invest in this society, and in that sense it is impossible for me to understand this idea of social democrats robbing Sampo that this Sitra balance sheet should go away. At least it would be good to know what the more rational use is, what it is then used for if we want to take money from Sitra elsewhere. I would see that at the moment. Sitra works very well and efficiently and brings exactly the kind of innovations to this society that we need in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u100	Madam President! To this point, perhaps, Mr Satose's speech, that we have specifically looked to the future with these presentations in such a way as to promote what these projects could do with this work balance sheet thinking, such as libraries for children and young people, schools, day-care centres — on an ecological basis, promoting digitality, and so that Sitra itself could be involved in this planning and development work. I think it is such a vision for the future, and I hope, on the basis of this debate, that, in this forthcoming committee, we will be able to break this whole thing down, perhaps go over the history of how this basic capital has been formed, and what we can do to promote this kind of thing. However, when Sitra’s valuable work, quite rightly, is always associated with this future thinking, I think that it could be its place at this stage as a whole. In this way, I also agree with Mr Ihalainen's view that certain types of identification of megatrends and, for example, this road map of the circular economy, such as this one, are also the future tasks and then it may be that some issues such as perhaps more day-to-day political issues could be a little more remote in this task.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u101	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u102	Madam President! The Act on the Pensions of MPs was amended as of 1 March 2011 so that, instead of an adaptation pension paid before the actual age of old age, an adaptation allowance is paid to MPs. The provisions on the adjustment allowance will apply to the new first-period MPs whose mandate has started since 1 March 2011. The adjustment allowance shall be paid for a period of at least one and not more than three years, depending on the duration of the mandate. The payment of the adjustment allowance is affected by the recipient’s earned and capital income. A Member of Parliament before 2011 may continue to receive an adaptation pension if he/she is not employed or wants to be employed in the labour market. An adjustment pension can be granted up to tens of years before the actual age of old age. However, the condition is that the person has been a Member of Parliament for at least seven years, practically two parliamentary term. The adjustment pension is also paid in addition to the salary to the extent that the pension, together with earned income, does not exceed the maximum amount of the adaptation pension. The former MP can therefore work at the store’s cashier for 5 hours for a monthly salary of EUR 4000, while the next cashier earns less than EUR 1500 for the same amount of work. Among the former MPs who are raising the adjustment pension are those who have set up a limited liability company and are working in the name of their company, because capital income does not affect the adjustment pension at all. This loophole was blocked by a legislative amendment from the new MPs, but former MPs, who are not affected by this amendment of the law, may receive, for example, up to EUR 4000 a monthly adjustment pension and, at the same time, raise capital income for up to hundreds of thousands of euros. Firstly, this is really wrong for ordinary citizens, but it is also wrong that this distorts competition when the business of ex-parliamentarys is supported in the form of an adjustment pension. The adjustment pension acts as a start-up grant and, at the same time, as an additional income for the entrepreneur, even if he runs the business below the cost price, distorting competition. This can't be considered reasonable. The adjustment pension is intended as a temporary source of income for former MPs who are not employed on the labour market after their term of office, not as a permanent additional income at the expense of taxpayers for decades. The pension reform that will enter into force from the beginning of 2017 will prolong the careers of our citizens. From 2018 onwards, the minimum pension age will gradually increase from 63 to 65 years of age for those born before 1955. However, a heavy and long career can enable you to retire at the age of 63. The retirement age limit for those born in 1965 and thereafter will be linked to the development of life expectancy, which will lead to an older retirement age. Longer careers are required for the people, while the youngest ex-Member of Parliament who is currently in receipt of an adaptation pension is just over 40 years old. This is not consistent with the rest of society's pension policy, nor does it encourage the continuation of work after the appointment of a representative. The debttroika, Finland's involvement in it, still demanded and requires Greece to put its economy in order, for example, by cutting pensions for Greeks. However, at the same time as we are putting our own economy in order, we do not want to touch this strange and unfair retirement benefit for old parliamentarians. The 14-month annual pension for the Greeks was severely cut, but some feel that the extra adjustment pension for the decades of MPs is justified. I'm asking, is that fair? Our Finance Minister, when he was Prime Minister over a year ago, wrote in his blog as follows: "It is good to think that the balancing applies to all Finns. We have to do it fair and square. Everyone has to give up something." It is fair that the example of giving up is shown by those to whom unfair benefits have been distributed over the years. Mr President! During 2015, adaptation pensions for MPs have been paid by EUR 2.2 million. Last year, the adjustment pension was paid to 83 people. The total pension expenditure of MPs for 2015 is EUR 13.4 million. This figure includes the total pension expenditure of MPs, i.e. old-age, survivors' and invalidity pensions and rehabilitation pensions. Mr President! The Act proposes that as from 1 January 2017, the adaptation pension for MPs will be abolished and the Act will be amended so that all MPs will be subject to the same conditions as the MPs who started after 1 March 2011.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u103	Madam President! As Mr Lehto said, the adjustment pension is not affected by capital income. For example, in the news of MTV3, on 23 November 2015, former Minister Suvi Lindén states that he will receive EUR 70000 per year in earned income and EUR 12,000 in capital income with data for 2014. Lindén said at the time that he did not have any wage income, so the adjustment pension was quite substantial and, in other words, capital income did not cut it. "If I were in paid employment, such an adjustmentretirement pension automatically calculates", Mr Lindén said to MTV. The question arises, Mr President, is what motivation is there for anyone to take up a job if they get EUR 70000 a year without it and EUR 12,000 in capital income. Even the blind Reetta sees that neither right nor fairness is achieved in the case of an adaptation pension. In practice, people are adapted to the furnace bank, not given the motivation to accept work. I would like to thank Mr Lehto for this bill and for the debate that it will hopefully raise. It is not right for someone to receive benefits that are certainly not right and fair, and for the rest of the people it is said that you must be cut off. Everyone — and I repeat: everyone — must take part in the economic efforts that this government itself has rightly put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u104	Mr President! I venture to assume that the adaptation pension for MPs is a system contrary to the people's morals. It does not take into account, among other things, capital income and is conditional on a career of only two parliamentary representatives. In addition, many persons receiving an adaptation pension are able to work and of working age. The adjustment pension has also become a well-established source of additional income for many ex-parliamentarys. As stated in the bill, the adaptation pension is intended as a temporary source of income for former MPs who are not employed on the labour market after their term of office, not as a permanent supplement. It is not right to reduce the income of low-income workers and pensioners and, at the same time, to pay a relatively large adjustment pension to former MPs tens of years before the actual retirement age. Mr President! The adjustment money for current MPs is a much better and fairer system. Ex-representatives who benefit from an adjustment pension should therefore move to the adjustment allowance. This would increase public confidence in the entire parliament. I warmly support Mr Lehdo's bill to change the MP's pension and adjustment allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u105	Madam President! As a small comment on this Lehdo bill: When it is stated here that the provisions on the adjustment allowance apply to the new MPs of the first period, whose mandate has started since 1 March 2011, this is indeed true for us second-period MPs who have started after the 2011 elections. We are, of course, covered by this adaptation money legislation, which will then, for example, provide a gross income of around EUR 1700 per year for a Member of Parliament who has worked for one or three years and then is absent or falling. In other words, quite moderate unemployment benefit is available to us new parliamentarians. But what is really the situation is that the Parliament that worked before the last parliamentary term and the parliamentarians who did so arranged for it to be cut off from these new representatives, but then left the benefit to themselves. It was rather ugly in the sense that, in my opinion, it would have been worth making that law so that it would then have been cut off from itself as well. It would have been robust and fair for all and fair, of course, in relation to all Finnish citizens, because this adjustment pension is quite unreasonable, as has now been seen and heard, that people who enjoy the capital income of several ten thousand euros will then receive several thousand euros a month for the rest of their lives from this Parliament and the Treasury. I don't think it's quite right. Indeed, it has been argued that this amendment was not made at the time of the 2010 Parliament because, as it were, it was not intended retrospectively to intervene in the benefits, but it could have been done. It was not even used in the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u106	Mr President! Indeed, the bill drawn up by Mr Lehdo and others concerns an adaptation pension for MPs. As has been said here, those who have been elected before 2011 and who have been in office for at least 7 years will be able to receive this adaptation pension after the end of their parliamentary career for up to decades, even until their retirement. This adjustment pension also does not reduce the capital income received by a person. This kind of adaptation pension is undeniably a very special one at a time when the retirement age of citizens is being increased and benefits are being cut even if they are forced to. And as Mr Lehdo's bill states, the original purpose of the adaptation pension has been to act as a temporary source of income for a person falling out of parliament before finding a new job, but now it seems to be more of a barrier to employment, since the level of the adaptation pension is close to the average wage of Finns and well above the median income. This is also what Mr Elo has just pointed out in colorful terms that he is mainly encouraging us to rest at the oven. Indeed, the law has already been corrected in such a way that, for the first time since the end of its parliamentary work in 2011, the elected MP is no longer entitled to this adaptation pension, but only to a relatively limited and low-level adjustment allowance. This low adjustment allowance corresponds essentially to the purpose of earnings-related unemployment allowance and is also affected by earned and capital income. Mr President! I support Mr Lehdo's bill. I myself have signed it and I hope that the whole Parliament will take it very seriously in these difficult economic times and set an example for the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u107	Madam President! I would also like to remind you of the debate that has taken place a great deal during this parliamentary term, that is, so-called charity. Various petitions have been made that Members of Parliament should set an example, and it is now necessary to put the cat on the table, that these petitions should be much more credible after this Chamber has been able to take a decision to abolish the Parliament's adaptation pension scheme and to transfer all ex-members and all present MPs to this adaptation money legislation. It is indeed the case that this is the main flaw that we have in the pension system as a whole and in the way this Chamber works, for example. In this respect, I hope that the following petitions, which are being made by and so away from the Members of Parliament, will concern this system, i.e. the introduction of a legislative change in this regard. Then you see who has the courage and the ability to put himself in the position of others. Indeed, I myself made such a bill of the same content as Mrs Lehto during the last parliamentary term. There was no progress at that time, but now that the same bill is being reformed, I hope that this time will be taken up, because times are becoming increasingly scarce.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u108	Madam Speaker! I welcome Mr Lehdo's draft law and especially from the point of view that there has been a great deal of public debate over the last few days on this issue and that there has been a great deal of criticism about the fact that good-paid MPs will then be retiring for years actually as good as they are. I fully understand the indignation of the people from this point of view, and I hope that the debate on how to continue this pension system will now take place again in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u109	Mr President! I would like to thank all those who have signed the bill and all those who have contributed here to the debate on referrals for their good contributions. And when we look at who has been here to speak and sit, it can be said again that the Finns of Peru defend justice. We must remind everyone that we are representatives of the people, not representatives of the people. I therefore hope that this bill will proceed and that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u110	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u111	Madam President! By the way, my bill of law on the professional qualifications of health inspectors in detached houses and small houses has been here in Parliament as early as 2013, but it then fell into constitutional problems, and I have tried in this bill to remove these very flaws. The fitness checks of a detached house, a small house and a residential property aim to draw the attention of owners of small houses, especially in the case of a real estate transaction, to the condition of the building in question as sellers and buyers. The fitness check improves the possibilities for the proper maintenance of the building in accordance with life-cycle thinking and the sale of real estate, so that both parties have the correct and adequate information on the condition of the store. The aim is to provide for a new law regulating the conduct of fitness checks in small houses by establishing qualifications for inspectors, compulsory registration of liability for damages both to the person requesting the inspection and to the party to the inspection. At the moment, there may not be a need for any kind of training for fitness inspectors and anyone can actually go there. The aim is to improve the quality of fitness checks and to make fitness checks a more useful way to determine the condition of the property for the seller and buyer of the property, i.e. mutual benefit. The aim is to improve the readability and informativeness of the fitness check reports. As real estate agents become more aware of the condition of the property, real estate disputes will decrease. Careful investigation of the condition of the building and possible damage prior to trade will reduce exposure to potential microbial damage and the resulting health damage. This will save health care expenditure and reduce sick leave. The 2013 report of the Audit Committee, which I have already mentioned, states that the health effects of significant moisture and mould damage were already EUR 450 million per year, according to a mold survey in 2013. These mold houses have only increased as time moves forward. If the objective of reducing disputes related to the sale of housing and real estate is achieved, this will save resources for the judiciary and consumer authorities. In order to be able to carry out fitness checks in the future, existing fitness inspectors should acquire new qualifications. At least initially, there may be a shortage of new types of fitness inspectors with competence and authority before the necessary training and after that there are sufficient authorised inspectors. The system may have a transitional period to facilitate the training of inspectors. There should be sufficient training to conduct a new fitness check across the country. This requires that training providers take part in the project and that sufficient qualified trainers and affordable training are available. The training of fitness inspectors is paid for by the participating fitness inspectors themselves. A more thorough fitness check is likely to increase the price of the fitness check at least to some extent. However, the costs should be compared with the price of the property or the price of arguing about the property. In relation to them, the price of the fitness check is under no circumstances excessive. The fitness check promotes the property owner, seller and buyer’s knowledge of the condition of the building. It provides an instrument for the planned maintenance and repair of the property and thereby reduces the renovation debt of buildings. Time-correcting reduces the cost of repairing. Examining the condition of the property thoroughly, reporting clearly and internalising the condition of the property before trading reduces post-trade disputes and reduces property disputes. If disputes are prevented, the parties to the housing trade will save up to tens of thousands of euros per dispute. Careful investigation of the condition of the building and possible damage prior to trade will reduce exposure to potential microbial damage and the resulting health damage. Preventing moisture and microbes damage and the various problems associated with them requires a change of attitude and information on the maintenance of properties. The awareness of the condition of buildings and the planned maintenance of buildings can create buildings with good indoor climates. When indoor climates do not pose risks to human health, morbidity is reduced. It is estimated that around 10,000 fitness checks will be carried out annually. The performance of fitness checks results in the employment impact of around 120 person-years. In August 2012, there have been about 200 qualified fitness inspectors in the housing store. Madam President! I hope that the committee will take a positive view of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u112	Mr President! Representative Oinonen's legislative initiative on the competence of fitness inspectors in detached houses and small houses is certainly to be welcomed. The aim of the initiative is to improve the reliability of fitness report reports for people of mattime age, which will benefit both the seller of the dwelling and the buyer. The benefits of this initiative are clear. The health damage caused by moisture and mold damage is reduced, and the number of lawsuits against real estate transactions is reduced. This also saves millions of money for society. In addition, the sale of real estate could be stimulated as the trust between the seller and the buyer would be strengthened with clear-language fitness reports. The impact of the bill has been well weighed and the real estate trade will not suffer in the long term. A transitional period in the training of fitness inspectors would also facilitate the organisation of a new type of training. Unfortunately, there are also home problems in many day-care centres, schools, workplaces today. However, Mr Oinonen's bill is one step in reducing mold problems. I'm in favour of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u113	Madam President! According to Article 109 of the Land Use and Buildings Act, those engaged in construction projects must ensure that the building is designed and constructed in accordance with the construction regulations and regulations and the permission granted. In view of the complexity of the project, those undertaking the construction project must have the necessary conditions for carrying it out. A substantial change took place when the Construction Act changed into the Land Use and Construction Act at the turn of the 1990s and many articles changed almost completely. Based on the old law, supervisors, designers and similar foreman were much more responsible than they are now and sanctions were imposed for negligence. Under the current law, the responsibility rests primarily with those who take up the construction project, had or did not have experience of building, as the legal text I read at the beginning stated. I believe that many of the problems of mould and moisture are specifically related to poor building supervision. There are many examples of the consequences of poor building supervision. The worst part is that no one is responsible for the mistakes, and the result is that there is an order for a qualified fitness inspector who has been presented. The aim is to improve the possibilities for the proper maintenance of the building in accordance with life-cycle thinking and to make real estate transactions in such a way that both parties have the right, adequate information on the condition of the store, as stated in the initiative, that is to say, this bill is well supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u114	Mr President! The objective of Mr Oinonen's legislative initiative is important and timely, and it is precisely to this very problem that the Audit Committee has also drawn attention to in this in-depth study, which deals in particular with the damage caused by moisture and mould damage and the possible prevention of such damage. Indeed, the Audit Committee stated that the health effects of these moisture and mould damage alone are EUR 450 million per year, not to mention, of course, the other problems and costs that this problem will entail. However, I believe that this initiative on the competence of fitness inspectors is something that should be taken seriously in committee, and indeed the comments made in the report by the Committee on Audit are in line. Of course, it must be noted that this bill in practice would mean more regulation in the construction sector, and now that we are living in this age of deregulation, it may be that even within the government there may not be any unreserved support for this. But I believe that regulation should be where it is needed and not all standards should be dismantled. I therefore hope that this problem will also be seriously addressed by this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u115	Madam Speaker! When a fitness inspector carries out an inspection, he is expected to indicate the place of danger clearly and not to act on any straw, i.e. not according to the seller of the building. That's the big problem with the health check reports that haven't been written yet. For example, if the health inspector’s report says that the house is in good condition for its age, this information does not open up to anyone. Building errors should be explained in the condition check report. They are often written vaguely, and this is what I mean by this training. The layman does not necessarily understand what is meant, for example, by the risk structure and the responsibilities associated with it. The fitness inspector must be able to tell the buyer and the seller clearly what the inspection showed. This way they can work out who's gonna fix it. There are far too many legal battles at the moment when the health inspector has very vaguely identified the subject of the defect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u116	Mr President! This bill, drawn up by Mr Oinonen, focuses on the qualifications of persons carrying out fitness checks on dwellings. Today, unfortunately, the training and skills of fitness inspectors vary a great deal, and unfortunately this is also reflected in the quality of fitness checks. In particular, in a commercial situation, a poor fitness check may result in the buyer not finding out or never knowing of any defects in the target he or she is buying. Of course, sellers are often unaware of the problems associated with the building, not always, of course, but often this happens. This bill, taken by Mr Oinonen, would increase confidence in real estate and housing transactions and thus, in time, probably also the number of housing transactions. At the same time, health damage caused by microbes and mould problems and disputes related to housing shops would be reduced. Real estate maintenance plans would also be easier to draw up and implement, and all these factors would clearly reduce the costs of different entities. Therefore, this bill by Mr Oinonen is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u117	Madam President! First of all, thank you to Mr Oinos for a very long and well-founded legislative initiative, which does indeed address the very fundamental problem that we have in this country. Many people suffer from indoor air problems, mold damage, and it is quite clear that when there are many variations in the quality of these reports, it can then cause different problems. On the other hand, I share this same concern, which Mr Räsänen also shares, that it is a little problematic that this is now bringing a new standard into the construction sector, but because it is important, I do see the need for this to be carefully reviewed in committee and to consider what could be done about this and, for example, whether it would be possible to have an existing training rather than creating new qualifications, which would be accepted by such a report's author, i.e. it would be defined in the legislation as to what type of training a person who prepares fitness reports should have. I personally welcome the fact that the content of these reports is regulated more precisely, that they are then exactly the same and comparable documents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u118	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u119	Mr President! This bill proposes that an election-specific campaign ceiling of EUR 10000 for paid advertising, EUR 50000 for parliamentary elections and EUR 80000 for European Parliament elections be added to the Act on candidate funding. This initiative is very much based on the proposal of the separate parliamentary election and party financing committee set up by the government in 2009. In that Committee report of 2009, it was suggested that a campaign ceiling on paid advertising per election would be added to the law on the electoral funding of the candidate, which would be precisely those amounts that I have listed, i.e. EUR 10000 in the municipal elections, EUR 50000 in the parliamentary elections and EUR 80000 in the European Parliament elections. The law on the candidate's electoral funding states this: "The purpose of the law is to increase transparency in election funding and to raise awareness of the potential links between candidates and limit the increase in the costs of the candidates' election campaigns". Well, the purpose of this law to limit the increase in campaign costs has not been achieved, as the actual campaign costs of the candidates have continued to increase in the last election. The National Audit Office’s 2015 report on the supervision of election funding — i.e. in the 2015 Parliamentary elections — states that the average cost of campaigns increased by EUR 5283 compared to the 2011 Parliamentary elections and that growth amounted to around EUR 1200000. The Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs has commented on the increase in campaign costs very recently in its report on the report from the National Audit Office to Parliament on the control of election funding in the 2015 Parliamentary elections. This report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states that attention should be paid to the increase in campaign costs in the parliamentary elections, and the committee notes in its report that the legislation in force has not been able to curb the increase in campaign costs. That is why, Mr President, I have taken this initiative. Setting a campaign ceiling would curb the increase in campaign costs and thus improve the opportunities for candidates to participate in the various elections when it is known that the campaign costs would in any case remain reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u120	Madam President! The bill is a good one, even if I would set these campaign ceilings even lower. If it is thought that EUR 10000 in municipal elections and EUR 50000 in parliamentary elections, then not everyone will be able to stand as a candidate on an equal footing. Many low-paid family members can't tear many hundred in municipal elections, and if you want to be a candidate for the parliamentary elections, you have to get through the municipal elections, and you have to make money there, and then, when the next election comes, there's 50 grand in there, so there's a lot of one election to be equal. I'm sure it's kind of hard to monitor this. You don’t necessarily spend money, but you get a barn wall, where you can put brochures, others don’t get these for free. In other words, how you are networked, you will also be able to receive additional support, which is not visible at all in this election funding. I think that this campaign ceiling should cover everything, not just advertising.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u121	Mr President! I would like to see more progress in the run-up to the elections and between the elections in order for candidates to do footwork and to meet even more citizens in the eye. The election costs have already gone too far. When we start talking in parliamentary elections about spending more than EUR 100,000 per head, we can really think that this is too much. Personally, I think that there is no such free money when you take money from trade unions or companies for election campaigns. The aim should be to ensure that everyone manages their own election funding personally and from their own resources. This representative The proposal for a law tabled by Mr Räsänen must be supported because it goes in the right direction to set an electoral ceiling and then the people, the candidates, would come more unitedly to the same line and would not have these excesses of these impossible costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u122	Madam President! Mr Räsänen's initiative and its aim is certainly good and noble. However, I myself wonder how this campaign ceiling would then in practice be controlled if we had such a law. The second duubio relates to whether this law would possibly give some type of benefit to people who have close relations with the media, for example, or who, as Mrs Lehto mentioned, receive support, these free barn walls and brochures, i.e. whether this would then give such persons an advantage in relation to those who have to campaign with cash. I was thinking about this aspect of equality. But it is quite clear that if we had a type of campaign roof and had the means to ensure that this was also respected, it would definitely improve the opportunities for candidates to take part in different elections and keep the costs reasonable. I agree with Mrs Elomaa that, now that we start moving around with more than EUR 100,000, it is quite the amount to put electoral money in one parliamentary election. In other words, it is certainly an initiative which should be seriously considered and considered in committee in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u123	Madam President! I personally would consider this ceiling of EUR 50000 in the parliamentary elections to be quite a significant limit, as, for example, in the last parliamentary elections, the biggest campaign was almost EUR 130000 and other very large campaigns were taking place, so it would already increase this fairness. It is clear, of course, that, for example, those of us who sit here — those of us who are going to the next parliamentary elections — or those who have other media visibility — always have their own advantage over all the new entrepreneurs, but I think that this campaign ceiling would bring justice to the situation. Then there was the question and the question of how to monitor this. I personally do not regard this aspect of control as a problem because, in any case, we have an obligation to report election funding, and even these preliminary declarations can be made. In other words, the candidates will have to plan and think very carefully about how much and what kind of funding, what kind of advertising, the costs of the election campaign will be, and also what will be reported on later, so I believe that this ceiling control will be successful within the same system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u124	My esteemed Madam Speaker! Mrs Räsänen's bill is probably symbolically a fine thing in itself, but I am now justifying this, which is why there is not necessarily a need to move in this direction in Parliament. First of all, it is not one thing now, how much money to spend, that you will be elected to Parliament. For example, in the last parliamentary elections, a number of candidates who spent more than EUR 50,000 or as much as EUR 100,000 and more and could not get anywhere near the parliament were excluded. Parliamentary elections also drop MPs who spend more than 50000 euros and still cannot get through. In other words, I would like to say that if, in the eyes of the electorate, the candidate has no message and no mission that he is driving or credibility, then it will not be bought with money alone. Secondly, the weakness in such legislation would be that if a person wants his own money to run for a parliament, why not give it to him? If he wants to put money in it — I am talking about my own money, not about the donation or some trade union money — then I would give it to him. It must also be remembered that in parliamentary elections and other elections, very strong candidates are those who have done some kind of stunt in public earlier or some kind of sports performance. They will then have a huge excess over the other candidates if they get out in a way without money. Mr President! It would be more important for Parliament to discuss this issue in greater depth from the point of view of how this transparency would increase. Now, in a very short period of time, during this year, we have spoken twice in various referral debates about electoral funding, and yet there has been no signal from our government as to whether or not to change the law, for example, that all candidates who are candidates in municipal or parliamentary elections should publish their sources of funding even if they are not elected. We know that, for example, municipal elections have a very large number of places of trust for people who cannot reach the council, and yet they do not have to tell us at all where they are getting their money — even if they are able to chair the Town Planning Board and have a key role to play in the interests of entrepreneurs. Mr President! I hope that, during this term of government, this transparency in the funding of the elected representatives will be increased. And one thing if we wanted to improve in some way the possibility for these other persons to be elected, who do not have the basic financial resources to do so, would be to give tax deductions to the funds used for this campaign up to a fixed amount. That's when you get your own money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-27-ps-44.u125	Mr President! In this debate, we have come up with some very good points of view that are worthy of reflection. I would like to add that the campaign ceiling in the municipal elections would be somewhat unequal to candidates in different municipalities. It is certainly one thing to campaign in Helsinki than, for example, Lope's municipal elections, in a different way that money is needed. But what led me to these amounts was quite simply a parliamentary election and party financing committee which ended up with these sums. I would also like to remind you that we may also have regional elections in the future, which will then also eat up campaign costs and demand funding. If such a campaign ceiling system were to be established, I think it would be logical to extend it to these regional elections as well. As far as the presidential elections are concerned, I would like to say that there are considerably fewer candidates and they are very different in nature from the other elections, so I do not think that a campaign ban on presidential elections is necessary.
