ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u2	Congressman Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u3	Mr President! Today's senior week. Especially this week, the role of the elderly and valuable old age will be raised in Finland. Many elderly people have had to spend this week in quite cramped moods, when the government has announced cuts to care for the elderly and nursing. Minister Ruhula, two weeks ago, during Question Time, we appealed to you: cancel the surgery on the nurse's appointment. You may not have missed what kind of people’s movement of elderly people, relatives and carers has stood up against the surgery you have proposed in favour of human care for the elderly. That is why I ask you, Minister: could you not consider this surgery yet and cancel these cuts in carers and ensure that our elderly citizens have a safe old age?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u4	Mr President! We're having an old age's week. Women and men who work in their everyday lives — those professionals who work in their everyday lives — with the elderly, and their relatives are dealing with the elderly every single day. We are in the process of making legislation: the Act on Elderly Services, the Social Welfare Act, which governs the everyday life and the work that is being carried out there in everyday life, so that the best possible care, a decent life is possible for everyone who needs the help and support. Mr President! The Government has stated that a smaller amount of euro should be applied for in the case of elderly services. We are working on the development of content, a programme for the development of services for the elderly, and then on the other hand, with regard to these savings, we are now working on the whole package that seeks to achieve that desired savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u6	Mr President! The government has withdrawn a number of its bad decisions. For example, the SDP called for the withdrawal of the cuts to the housing allowance for pensioners, and you withdrew that bad decision. Now both the nurses and the government’s experts have admitted that this cutting of the nurse’s size is too heavy a cut. Is this the only decision you will not reconsider? Minister, now that it has been admitted from the ranks of the government parties that the operation must be cancelled, you will be the ones to look at. Mr Rehula, I would like to ask you in the run-up to the demonstration of the Finnish nurses: could you give up cutting out the nurseship which neither the public nor the nurses understand?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u7	Mr President! The preparation of housing allowance for a pensioner as part of the general housing allowance scheme ended up in a situation where no change was made to the housing allowance for a pensioner. You said, Mr Haatainen, can you withdraw the decision? We are in the process of preparing the way in which elderly services will be provided in the future. In order to undo something, first you have to be the one that could be cancelled. Now we're in a pre-op situation. The budget book, which is distributed on each table about a month ago, clearly states that, for example, the quality of elderly services is being reviewed — both with rakes and with more frequent combs — and that preparatory work is now under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u10	Mr President! We have had experience in the care of the elderly a few years ago when Valvira and the Ombudsman conducted investigations into the abuse of the elderly. The reports were hard to read. 90% of our treatment units received comments on inadequate treatment. One of the common features of these was insufficient personnel, lack of skills and lack of staff and poor management. Mr President! That is why it is incomprehensible that you are now seeking savings by reducing the size of the staff and the competence of the staff, when we have clear information and research that this is not feasible in practice without inhumane treatment of the elderly. Mr Rehula, please state the real reasons why you do not change the size of the staff and do not want to maintain the quality of service for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u11	Mr President! Fortunately, we have other types of information based on research on the way we live in 24-hour care and care. It's a personal experience for the last two weeks. I have visited two of these 24-hour units, and I assume that of course it has been told in advance who is coming to the village. You can't get an 82-year-old man to say the things he's learned if he doesn't really think I have a good life right now. It's good to be here. Fortunately, we have these experiences. Then there is this other side to which Mr Kiljunen referred and, in fact, in your question you have already opened up some of the problem we have in the field. We have the Social Welfare Act, we have the Elderly Services Act, we have recommendations that guide that care and care. Without incriminating anyone, leadership, for example, really matters. Secondly, as regards the dimension: it is a recommendation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u12	Mr President! It's old-age week. It was a pleasure for me to visit Heinävesi to speak at the celebration of the elderly's day, and there was concern not only about the surgery planned for the nurseship, but also about the new calculations made in relation to the objectives of the social welfare reform. Nordic Healthcare Group has prepared detailed calculations for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Prime Minister's Prime Minister's Prime Minister's Office on how to implement and achieve savings in social welfare reform. These calculations assume that the savings potential of elderly services can be estimated at almost EUR 1 billion per year. So we can save up to EUR 1 billion on services for the elderly. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you see this possible, and could you also tell these haystacks that this is not true?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u13	Mr President! For people with haywaters and for everyone else: the calculation to which you refer has been made from a productive economic point of view in a situation in which our legislative proposal, which is now the subject of a consultation on the change in social welfare and health care, has not yet been known to that group. It is completely publicised in what way and by what methods, the means by which we try to reduce the cost pressure that exists. All the calculations that the government has in connection with the social welfare change are based on an increase in our social welfare and health care expenditure. That's where all the calculations come from. There will also be additional euros on top of inflation, but we need to make the cost trend so that the euro that we have at our disposal is sufficient. Secondly, the euro matters, but what happens in each workplace, in each municipality, really matters how these laws, regulations and recommendations are implemented locally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u14	Mr President! As a nurse — in December, 30 years after I graduated — I have worked a long career there in nursing and sometimes I wonder if I will stay and talk about what is going on in the field. Yes, it is that valuable and good old age, warm, lingering hands, belong to all elderly people in Finland. I have also seen treatment suffering, abuse, what was discussed here today and what I have very often spoken about in the Chamber. During the last parliamentary term, the patient safety strategy was being reformed, but the reform work was not completed because the social security reform was not completed. I have suggested that the patient safety strategy should also include ways of preventing abuse in Finland. This medical condition is the first step in patient injury. I would like to ask: how is this work on updating the patient safety strategy going, and have the ethical principles of treatment been included there?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u15	Mr President! The document to which Mr Juvonen refers has progressed so that, during this month, we still have the date on which that document, which will communicate, on the one hand, to the families and to the people who need services, and, on the other hand, to support it in its management, and to provide little information and information for patient safety and dealing with people, is to be dealt with in the ministerial working group and this information also within the government as a whole. The drafting of this document is on the lime lines, and hopefully it will become what is hoped for in the field, specifically support for leadership, support for the possibility of joint action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u16	Mr President! The restructuring of older services is ongoing at all times. National targets for institutional care for people aged over 75, 24-hour service housing and home care have been set. In the past, elderly people who were physically ill filled our home. At the moment, the memory - stricken are in their place and the physically ill are taken care of at home. At the moment, the media are full of pictures showing — as you did, Mr Minister — the well-fitted, alert old people who stick to the matter, and I would like to ask whether there is a risk that this investment will be wrong? For the current dimension: I was following the competition where the City of Helsinki requires that there be a certain amount of dimensioning there and, on the other hand, the city next door requires that the size of the entire staff corresponds to the target.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u17	Mr President! There's a situation here, on the other hand. We have care and care units with that dimensioning, that number "zero comma something", is 0,6 or 0,72 or 0,83. It is related to the kind of care, the need for care and care that people have in those places. This will continue to be the case, and this must continue to be the case. It is absolutely essential what the need for care is for those people who 7/24/365 are in the same condition. How do you do that job? The euro matters, but it also matters how management is managed or that in this kind of contract the perfect equality... I even wish that perfect equality would not come true, because there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u18	Mr President! I myself am a nearby nurse and worked for years in the ward of the health centre. In my own work, I found it particularly difficult that there was often too little time to deal with the elderly, not at all the way they deserve it. In a hurry, only the most necessary care measures were taken. In a hurry, the morning porridge will cool before anyone gets to the edge of the old man’s bed and assists in feeding. In a hurry, the change of the night diaper stretches until noon. In a hurry, the bed patients stay in bed for a day. Humanity and a rehabilitative working grip are only a wish in the mind of the nurses. Mr President! This week, SuPer challenged MPs to work a shift in the care of the elderly. The Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance accepts this challenge. Will you take it, good government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u19	The Prime Minister will answer on behalf of the Government. But, Mr President, I understand the pain of the staff in the fact that there is not enough time in many places where intensive day-to-day care, round-the-clock care, is provided for the work for which there is training and knowledge and which you would like to do. I have also said several times during this Question Time that it is quite important, for example in your case, Mr Pekonen, that you have been able to influence your own work whether your supervisor listens to the feedback that we can now do otherwise. The law is binding. The quality recommendations, the recommendations provide guidance on how to act, but the big thing is that, and the big thing is that the supervisors will also learn this feedback, which you are now giving here in Parliamentary Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u20	Mr President! The Social Democrats demand that every person must have the right to live a good and valuable life to the end. During the last season, we were led by the Act on Elderly Services, and this Act has been used to raise the size to more than 0.6 in Finland. But now the government is weakening this good law. You are reducing the size of the staff, cutting the level of competence of the staff and often taking away from people with memory problems a responsible worker who would take care of their rights. I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the quality of life of these elderly people and their right to safety, assistance and access. How do you justify this surgery to these people and by what concrete means do you improve the quality of life of these people in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u21	Mr President! Representative Nurminen opened what happened last season. Yes, the Old Age Services Act was enacted, but hundreds of millions of municipalities were cut off at the same time: if I remember correctly
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u22	Mr President! During the week of care for the elderly, it comes to mind that in what way we create the good path toward old age, in what way we avoid being institutionalized when we are old. In that respect, the question arises as to how we can develop our care chains: The hip slide from Espoo is an example of how to get home instead of the facility. To what extent do we create senior cards that allow our old people to move for free? In that respect, I would also like to put the question here: what can we do before it is too late?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u23	Mr President! With reference to the previous question, decent old age must be the aim of all those decision-makers and people working in everyday life who see the future and want to change this future even better — how to invest in prevention and in doing not to get into a situation where things happen at the extremes, which then have to be resolved afterwards, that what has gone wrong. This development of the content of our services for the elderly, Mrs Lauslahti, is precisely the work currently being prepared in the ministry by a large number, and not just the preparation, but the introduction phase will begin in the coming weeks, months.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u24	Mr President! Minister Ruhula, I know and trust that you will care and hope that the reforms you are making will actually improve care for the elderly. But hand to heart, Minister Ruhula, is it not, however, quite risky that, at this very moment, when we are making such major changes to social security, the standard will be lifted by the abolition of personnel measurements? We all know that in the care of old people, people are the ones who do the care, no one can replace it. And the minimum level is usually rather low, and in that sense it is great to have quality recommendations and to develop leadership, but it seems quite risky to trust it. Can we now tell those old people who are afraid of being institutionalized or in different care establishments that they can actually live with valuable and good old age?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u25	Mr President! During one reply, I heard an interlude in the Chamber: "That answer understood nothing!" I tried to open the door to the fact that the government has agreed on a budget debate and has written it in a budget book, that we are now going through the quality recommendations, and now we are going to see how the savings that we are trying to achieve can be achieved. This job is going on. Can you confirm if you can promise? The role of the legislator, the government, is to ensure that the conditions are as good as possible, that the legal basis is as good as possible, and fortunately, we have the majority of care and care for the elderly at the level at which we meet the people who experience its valuable old age. When there are problems, even the most flagrant ones, they will be solved, and usually they will be found
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u26	Mr President! Fortunately, there are not many elderly housing units in this country that are undersized. And why is that? This is precisely because of the law adopted last season: in Europe, the first law was adopted to protect the elderly in Finland. And now, if we go back to the question of what is at stake here, this is about savings in accordance with the Government Programme: you want to save EUR 25 million next year by reducing the number of carers. What does that mean? This means that in a unit with 14 elderly people, there is only one nurse on the evening or morning shift. Only one nurse for 14 elderly people, and that is what this is all about. It has been admitted from your own ranks that this is an unreasonable saving. Now we're looking at you. Can you tell me clearly whether you are going to give up that government programme savings or not? This is up to you now, Minister Ruhula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u27	Mr President! Fortunately, during the last parliamentary term, the municipalities were able to cope with the fact that the Act on Elderly Services was enacted — good that it was laid down — and hundreds of millions of municipalities were cut. Fortunately, it became clear that a reduction of EUR 270 million, as I remember it, was made in the government's decision to save money on the basis of:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u30	Mr President! In the opposition, we are now appealing to the government for a more humane approach. There are currently more and more patients in 24-hour care and, of course, the trend that we are trying to ensure that people can stay at home for as long as possible has brought this situation. This reduction in the level of care in this situation may actually jeopardise the quality of care, just as Mr Valvira has warned, and in that sense, I do not think that this appeal is in vain at all. It must be remembered that if we compare this situation in the Nordic countries, the average number of nurses on the day shift in Norway and Denmark is about one per 8 elderly people. There is also one for 10 people in Sweden and as many as 12 in Finland, and as we have heard here, there may be situations where 14 are responsible customers, so we really hope that the government will now be here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u31	Mr President! It's a common concern. I am well aware of the fact that this preparation is being invoked. I am well aware that during the course of this day, the committee leaders of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have called for this preparation, just as the appeal draws attention to, to look at what is the whole of this care and care. It refers to the entry that the government has made in the budget debate in the budget book, which is readable by everyone, that we are now going to go through with a dense comb what options could be found. Nursing is an issue that must continue to determine the need for care. The condition of the people, the ability of the people to function, who are in 24 - hour care, must be determined by the need for personnel. It has been, and it should continue to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u32	Mr President! The government has a harsh choice of values to cut down on the care of the elderly. Cutting the amount of care and the savings planned for care for the elderly could be cancelled, for example, by cancelling inheritance tax reductions. It is a value choice to cut off care for the elderly at the same time and, at the same time, to make tax reductions for those on good income. Mr President! It is hypocrisy to appeal to good laws if you do not have the money to implement them. Careful hands and encounters are needed, not hypocritical speeches. Mr President! 75% of Finnish elderly people feel that they are being treated as second-class citizens. A new survey tells us this. What kind of message of appreciation do these plans to cut out the care of the elderly give?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u33	There are many major changes on the board’s table, which are intended to ensure, on the one hand, that we have the euro sufficient to meet the service needs — the service needs that do not need to be predicted when it can be calculated — due, on the other hand, to the ageing of our people. Ageing of human dignity, which takes account of individual needs, must be an objective and must be pursued accordingly. On this whole, I do not underestimate, under any circumstances, individual issues — such as the fact that this quality recommendation for elderly services is now being fully reviewed. One corner if you fail, the whole thing can fail. But it is true in this clay where we are, on the one hand, that we try to get the foundations so that the administration works, the money is sufficient, and, on the other hand, the content so that decent old age is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u34	Mr President! I welcome the fact that this government has included in the Government Programme a number of projects to improve care for the elderly, home care, family care and rehabilitation, and they really invest tens of millions of dollars annually. We are committed to maintaining the ability to function and ensuring that everyone is taken care of. Minister Ruhula, in many of your replies you pointed out that the quality recommendation for care for the elderly is really being widely discussed. One part of that quality recommendation is that it is now stated that each elderly person must have his own room for long-term care. I have been treating demented people for many years and I know that living alone is not of quality to those people. Seeing another person in the room may appease one person to be there and feel more at home. So I ask you, Minister: when you look at that quality recommendation, do you really consider this room issue to be an alternative to savings?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u35	Mr President! We're working on the whole quality recommendation. Housing is one part of it. This is one of the parts, sections, themes under the headlines that are now being discussed, because this whole set of quality recommendations is on the table, and it is going through with a very dense comb. And the things that will then come to a solution, we will see when this whole package is waded, the whole preparation is done. We are also on the schedule of the Budget Act on this issue, which means that we need to know, from now on, within a month or so, what all these changes in the quality recommendation consist of.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u36	Finally, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, and then the final question to Mr Haatainen, who opened this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u37	Mr President! It is very embarrassing to see the Minister responsible squirm on this matter. You have been asked directly whether you are going to give up relaxing care for the elderly, but after a half-hour of discussion we have not received a direct answer to this question. Instead, we know in this Chamber that the government will cut as much as EUR 75 million from care for the elderly. I do not understand how you can assure me that quality will remain the same, even if at the same time you cut so much. And it is also very problematic for the Minister to appeal to his own individual visit to a particular care facility and to say that things are in good shape. We know that there are other kinds of studies. Besides, you're talking about the status quo. What's the situation when you cut that $75 million or when you cut the billion that's promised there?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u38	Mr President! I did not quite find a question about this speech by Alanko Kahiluodo. It may have been a bad example, ladies and gentlemen, what I used to do, but on the other hand I also went on to say that, fortunately, there are situations where, firstly, the majority of our senior population lives in a situation where it is good to be, fortunately, this is the case. Studies on mistreatment, studies on problems with care and care for the elderly, or the individual cases that are sometimes dealt with here in Question Time — studies are to give an overall picture in order to make changes. From individual cases, from these glaring examples on the tabloid pages, which is the only one that goes through what has gone wrong, why this has happened when decent old age has not been possible. We're in the middle of something. It is time to prepare and it is time to decide, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u39	And a final supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u40	Mr President! We have been discussing this subject for over half an hour now and we have not yet received a direct answer as to whether you are going to cut down on the nurse's size, recommendation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u43	Mr President! Yes, we have a preparatory work going on at the Ministry, and at the end of its preparation it is time to draw conclusions, summarise, and during the preparation we will see this whole quality recommendation. When that work is done, the time has come to decide: it will be in about a month's time when an unambiguously clear answer is given to this issue. It's my responsibility to prepare. On the other hand, within the framework of the entire government, you compared this to tax reductions and so on. You yourself, Mr Haatainen, have been a minister and you know that the ministers of responsibility will do their own preparatory work in accordance with their role and then the whole government will decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u44	Next question, Mr. Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u45	Mr President! The pictures of children digging from the ruins of Aleppo in recent days are already beyond human tolerance. Russia and the Syrian Government are constantly bombing civilians. There's been a breach of the cease-fire, and there's no way the relief transports are going to make it. Now 300,000 people are surrounded in East Aleppo, 85,000 children are trapped in a city where it is raining bombs. So I ask you, Prime Minister Sipilä: what measures does Finland intend to take in the EU, the UN or directly bilaterally with Russia, so that the Russian and Syrian governments can commit to a cease-fire without delay and that food, water and medicines are delivered to people in need and that we can get these people safe?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u46	Mr President! What's going on out there in Syria: Those images are horrifying, and the information that comes from there is terrifying. We have all strongly condemned them. Today, among other things, our President has discussed this situation with the President of Russia. We will have Russia as the main topic for the next European Council, and Russia will also have the keys to a solution in this regard. I have also had a lot of discussions with colleagues. What has been done and can be done in the European Union is to get humanitarian aid as far as possible. There are very serious problems at the moment with access to humanitarian aid. It is up to both the international community, the UN, the European Union and all the UN Member States to move forward on this issue. What we can do in particular is to appeal to those who have the power of decision, especially Russia and the USA in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u47	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u48	Mr President! The Middle East has been the scene of many crimes against humanity. In Syria, too, in 82 C.E., the resistance of the then Hama city was defeated so that as many as 40,000 civilians could be killed, and the doctrine of father al-Assad’s son is that this can be done without being held accountable. Now, with Russian support, Syrian troops are doing similar damage in Aleppo. What can be done to ensure that the methods and agreements of international law work so effectively that no one can ever imagine getting away from responsibility in such terrible war crimes? Among the signatory countries of the International Criminal Court, the United States and Russia, among others, and many other countries, are still missing. Finland has invested heavily in this. What can we do more, together with the European Union, about this international law?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u49	Mr President! Of course, what Finland can do is appeal to those who are not yet involved, and in particular we can work together through the European Union. Together as a European Union, we have greater influence and an opportunity to influence these issues as well. In the context of the European Union, in particular, we have now had a debate on how to obtain humanitarian aid in relation to Syria. By the way, the European Union's influence has been very weak in dealing with this crisis. But what we have done in Finland is that we are having bilateral discussions, and that is the example of today's President's debate with the President of Russia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u50	Mr President! It would be important for Syrian airspace to be closed down, because these most terrible acts are happening precisely through the airspace. Could the Finnish Government think that it would appeal to other EU colleagues and suggest that this airspace could be closed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u51	Mr President! Yes, we can do that too. The first thing that should be achieved in Syria is that there will be a cease-fire and the killing of innocent civilians will stop. We have called in every context where we operate, for a cease-fire to be held and for the killing of civilians to be stopped. Part of the ceasefire is, of course, that if the airspace were closed, then the air operations would cease as well. But the most important thing is to get a cease-fire now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u52	Mr President! It is quite clear that we are talking about war crimes: bombing civilians, bombing hospitals, trapped children in a city like this. We know the weaknesses of the UN Security Council here. When there are permanent members, such as Russia, who are involved in the bombings, they can exercise their veto. But it would be very important for the investigation of war crimes to take place through something, and then I appeal to Finland, either in the EU or directly with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, to launch and support a process in which the investigation of war crimes would be initiated. It would also put pressure on the parties: they would know that they would not get away with this hook, even if the official criminal court could not then be set up by a separate decision. Could Finland make a proposal to start monitoring the implementation and reporting of war crimes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u53	Mr President! It is true what Mr Haavisto is proposing. The fact that there is a threat of a war crime process and that it is being actively raised can have a preventive effect on this issue. I can very well bring it up at the European Council when it will be discussed in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u54	Mr President! The war that has been going on in Syria for more than four years has been extremely heavy, and this has been particularly so for the civilian population. There are numerous fighting fractions, and in addition to the internal forces of Syria, Russia, the United States and Turkey are pursuing their own interests in the region. The diversity of the arrangement is illustrated by the fact that there is reason to suspect that the Pentagon and the CIA, for example, can support the fighting forces, one side or the other. In the past, Isis sold the oil he stole to someone else. Now it's time to ask who's arming Al-Nusra. Minister, how can the financial and armed support that is leaking to the terrorist organisation be supported?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u55	Mr President! This is already a challenging question: how do we put an end to that? In Syria, so many parties are already fighting that no one is going to find out who is there and who is going to fight. This financing of warring parties involves criminal activity, of course, and everything must be done to prevent it. What we are able to do in Finland is to influence that issue through the European Union in bilateral discussions and this interference with the issue of war crimes in the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u56	Mr President! This war is extremely shocking. Until now, it has been thought that there is no military solution to this war, but now everything about Aleppo suggests that the Syrian Government, supported by Russia, has clearly set itself the goal of achieving military victory, which means that all the core areas, including Aleppo, will come under government control. Under those circumstances, that will mean a huge number of victims, including innocent victims. I think the government's line on this has been entirely correct. Cooperation within the European Union is the way in which we influence and also bilateral contacts with Russia. It is necessary to address the issue of war crime as a preventive measure, but it also requires extensive preparation for humanitarian operations, and it is a question of what kind of background debate will take place within the framework of the Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u57	Mr President! Of course, the most important thing is to put an end to the conflict, that is to say, to root causes. But what we have provided for in the European Union is humanitarian aid, and surely the next European Council will also have questions of getting this aid through, but also a joint increase in that aid. That situation in Aleppo is absolutely shocking. There is a shocking contradiction between what help is needed there and what help can be obtained there. In the European Union, Finland will have an impact on increasing the amount of aid in that region.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u58	I give further questions to Mrs Packalén and the parliamentary group that opened this question, its representative Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u59	Mr President! However, I would like to recall the beginning of this Arab spring, what happened in Syria and what happened in Aleppo. At Aleppo this rebellion did not start, but the fighters came from outside, and they reported that when the Aleppoans did not go into rebellion they had to come there and raise up that rebellion against the government. At the moment the situation is that the Al-Nusra front, which is therefore al-Qaeda in Iraq, is the most important fighting force with its allies in Aleppo. This makes this issue very complicated, the whole situation. And now I would like to ask that in order to somehow put an end to this human catastrophe that is there, can the Finnish Government put forward any way, or in Europe, that these guerrilla movements or terrorist organisations should withdraw from Aleppo, that is to say, exert pressure on the USA, Saudi Arabia, other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u60	Mr President! As I said there, the wheel is very complicated, there are many parties there and there is a great political consensus and a great political will to put an end to it. Russia's actions in the region in recent days are also reprehensible. For this assistance: We must remember that help is needed not only on the ground in Aleppo, but also in neighbouring countries. Jordan and Lebanon, for example, are in an unsustainable situation with regard to their size and population. There are about 1.5 million refugees in both countries, and we must also be able to help Jordan and Lebanon in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u61	One last question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u62	Mr President! What is happening in Aleppo right now is a crisis of humanity. The international community has jointly sworn that what happened in Srebrenica, for example, will not be allowed to happen again, and it is now happening. There are 300,000 people in Aleppo, surrounded by siege, and we also know the figures: according to international estimates, as many as 300,000 people have died in the Syrian civil war, most of whom, 80 to 90 per cent, have died as victims of the Al-Assad regime. In other words, there is an administration and Russia supporting it, which has now unilaterally violated the cease-fire agreement. And we also know that the EU's foreign policy representative, Mr Mogherini, has said that there would be aid convoys with international organisations outside Aleppo ready to go to the city if only the ceasefire could be brought into force. Again, Prime Minister, I would like to appeal strongly to you: do you know what Finland has done and what the President has discussed with President Putin in order to get this aid quickly and also to respect the ceasefire?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u63	Mr President! Of course, I know what the President has been talking about, but it may not be appropriate to open a bilateral debate here. That, of course, is the job of the President. I believe that the way Finland operates in this situation is through the European Union, but also bilaterally. And I can guarantee that Finland has done and will do everything in its power to give new light to the situation with our own petitions and to give relief to people in an absolutely impossible situation there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u64	We have a few more questions to raise, and perhaps one or two of them. Next up, Congressman Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u65	Mr President! "The picking of the unemployed is an island. The Finns Party does not accept the proposal to step up unemployment security. That is an unambiguous point. If the tripartite task force is proposing a separation, then the situation may be different." So has Sampo Terho, Group Chairman of the Finns Party. Then what happened? The Government, with the support of the Finns Party, is also taking forward the proposal to reduce unemployment security through an active model, despite the opposition of employees' organisations, and despite the fact that employees' organisations consider it contrary to the Competitiveness Pact. Mr Lindström, how did this happen? Why did you turn your coat around on the unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u66	Mr President! At the beginning there was a separation that became an active model by the Hetemäki group. It did not go through, they told us that they did not accept this, after which the government brought elements to this, the idea that how from now on. There were so many of them, and they are very important, including this one-off pension support for older people, the development of outreach youth work, the development of self-study during unemployment, together with labour market organisations, and the preparation of fair rules for zero-hour contracts will be completed by mid-term. All of this plus much more means that the President of the SAK in Helsingin Sanomat yesterday said: "If we continue to work on difficult issues, we will welcome the continuation." So do the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u68	I will give Mr Andersson a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u69	The fact that employees' organisations are still involved in this overall work does not mean that employees' organisations accept this active model. The position of the employee organisations on this active model is quite clear, it is negative. On the other hand, there is considerable confusion about the views of the Finns. This government's active model from the point of view of the unemployed is clearly a cut, a weakening in relation to the current situation. It cuts unemployment benefit for those unemployed who, after three months, cannot find work or temporary work or get access to these active measures, for which the resources will not be sufficient. Minister Lindström, once again: if you are serious about stopping picking up the unemployed, if you want to respect the position of employees' organisations, why are you taking this active model forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u70	Mr President! If I answer this question: should all of this, this whole package, which I have just mentioned, plus the fact that we have promised to look at this system of sanctions for unemployment benefit, that is, the penalties, in the same context — because they feared that this would be a double punishment in a sense, this too has been promised — bring down because you say that this is an operation? The situation is that if there is savings, all the money will be spent there within the system. It won't be an operation then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u71	Congressman Hoskonen, next question. .
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u72	Mr President! There is currently more wood to be cut in Finnish forests than ever in the history of Finland. However, the forest industry is currently importing wood at an accelerating pace, mainly from Russia, more than 10 million mots this year. There are two problems: one is that the price paid for raw wood in Russia is much higher than that paid to the Finnish forest owner, which seems to be quite a terrible thing to think of as a layman, and the other is that the import application, which comes from Russia, also receives double support, support through compensation for emissions trading, and then energy support for the wood chips when electricity is produced with renewable energy. Minister Tiilikainen and Minister Rehn have done excellent work to increase forestry activities in Finland, excellent work. I would like to ask Mr Tiilikainen first: have you had discussions with industry about this problem? Mr Rehn, has there been any contact with the Commission on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u73	Now one of the ministers will answer, not both. — Minister Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u74	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Hosko for this question, which concerns a very important social issue, and I very much understand the concerns that have been expressed in Eastern and Northern Finland on this issue. The Government is fully committed to promoting bioenergy, forest and wood based bioenergy, in accordance with the Government Programme. This also applies, of course, to our efforts to promote the exploitation of forest chips, especially domestic forest chips. This problem, raised by Mr Hoskonen, needs to be resolved in depth, and that is why I have instructed the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to carry out a study in the course of October on both the support system for renewable forest energy and also on the role of the import application in this as a whole and whether there is anything to be done there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u75	Next up, Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u76	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Jag har vid flera tilfällen, också i denna sal, framfört min, den svenska riksdagsgruppens och många andras oro över att vi med social- och älsovårdsreformen kör ner vårt väffärdssamhälle och den viktiga närdemokratin. Jag fortsätter med ett citat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u77	Mr President! Why do we need a change to the foundation of social welfare and health care on which the services are built? Because, even under the Constitution, the Constitutional Committee of Parliament has on four occasions taken the view that inequality is increasing, the principle of equality under Article 19 does not apply. Another fundamental issue that must be taken seriously is that the need for services that has already been discussed here in relation to elderly services does not need to be predicted, you know what is coming. We must be able to make such a decision, both in terms of administration and funding, that we have enough professionals at the right time in the right places. In order to ensure the availability and accessibility of social and health services throughout Finland, this will require the construction of this change. Now is the stage when the legislative package is on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u78	We still have 20 seconds, and that is why I will admit one more question, Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u79	Mr President! In July, in connection with the transplant week, Finland successfully hosted the European Championships for transplant and dialysis patients. This Saturday is the European Day for Transplantation. Unlike other Nordic countries and Europe, a healthy person in Finland can only donate a kidney to treat the illness of a close relative or a person living in the same household. However, in Finland some 400 patients are constantly waiting for the kidney, and some of them already have a suitable donor in mind, and many of them are anxious to see when the law to facilitate transplants in Finland will come into force. I would like to ask Minister Rehula: how is this bill, signed by 116 MPs, which is currently in the ministry, and could it be possible for this many patients to have a change in the law that saves their lives and allows them to function normally and, at the same time, save their lives?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u80	Mr President! After all, the bill of 116 MPs is in the hands of Parliament. Secondly, this issue has not been discussed within the government, but at this point there is an opinion of my own, and that is that I welcome the fact that a change in accordance with this bill can also be made in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u81	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 9/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u82	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs, which was very thorough about this implementation of the Council of Europe directive, which significantly increases and improves the legal protection of suspects, and also the clarification of the use of assistants in the hearings is very important in this proposal. The proposal proposes to amend the Pre-trial Investigation Act, the law on the treatment of persons held by police officers, the law on the imposition of fines and fines, the law on the penal procedure, the law on the infringement procedure and the law on extradition between Finland and other Member States of the European Union and the law on legal aid. The proposal implements the Directive on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and proceedings for a European arrest warrant. The provisions of the pre-trial investigation law concerning the presence of a suspect’s assistant in the hearing would be supplemented. The presence of the suspect's assistant in the hearing could only be denied if this were necessary to prevent a significant threat to the investigation of the crime. Mr President! The Committee on Legal Affairs heard a number of experts who, as a result of careful listening, have produced this report. In particular, the item "The presence of the suspected assistant in the hearing" was the subject of a wide-ranging debate. It says: 'The motion proposes to tighten up the conditions under which the presence of a suspect's assistant in the hearing can be denied. According to the law in force, it is possible to prohibit the presence of an assistant in the hearing for heavy criminal investigation reasons. It is now proposed that the presence of an assistant be prohibited only if this is necessary to prevent a significant risk to the investigation of the offence." The police were not very enthusiastic about this change because they felt that it would, as it were, limit their discretion in this interview. However, what matters is that the suspect, until proven otherwise, receives all the support he needs in this situation, which may be a very unique experience for many. Even at the outset, it is not always necessary to know why you have been suspected, so these clarifications to this law are very important and important. In addition, the level of activity of the assistant was defined in a new way: it is no longer necessary to sit quietly as a passive person and can discuss with the suspect, which was also a very significant reform of this law. Here are just a few things I wanted to raise. I believe and hope that many other representatives here will raise these good things, which have been included in this report. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u83	Mr President! When a crime is committed, the most important step in solving a crime is pre-trial investigation. In the pre-trial investigation, what evidence can be obtained from the crime scene, what can be obtained from the suspects, the witnesses, is a work that can no longer be patched up afterwards. After all, we have had certain cases in public where the investigation of a crime has become almost impossible when mistakes have been made during the pre-trial investigation. Neither the prosecutor nor any court can correct those mistakes any longer, and it is therefore very important that the pre-trial investigation be made available to the police and the prosecutor, both in terms of human resources and adequate knowledge, and it is very important that the prosecutors are involved, particularly in serious and complex criminal cases, even in the pre-trial investigation and this is being developed. Since pre-trial investigation is the most important stage in solving a crime, it is very important that people always have access to professional assistance in that interrogation situation. As Mr Laukkanen said, it is a very challenging and difficult situation for a person, and especially in the case of a minor or a mentally disturbed person, it is very important that it is genuinely possible to have an assistant present for the first hearing. These are the fundamental principles of the Western rule of law. Personally, I see that it is in the interests of all parties involved, including the police, that there is a professional and ethically high-level assistant who is in control of these criminal matters and procedural matters. At this point, I am concerned that, especially in that region of Finland, the availability of lawyers and lawyers dealing with criminal matters is beginning to decline quite a bit, and this is something that we in this Parliament should be concerned about too. However, there is also a need for assistance in criminal matters under the rule of law,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u84	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the pre-trial investigation law. This proposal would implement a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right of suspects and accused persons to use a lawyer in criminal proceedings and proceedings for a European arrest warrant. The provisions of the pre-trial investigation law would be supplemented in respect of the presence of a suspect’s assistant in the hearing. The presence of the suspect's assistant in the hearing could only be denied if this were necessary to prevent a significant threat to the investigation of the crime. A decision on a non-presence decision could also be brought before the Court of Justice. In addition, provisions on the waiver of the right to use an assistant would be included in the Pre-trial Investigation Act. The pre-trial investigation law, which entered into force in 2011, already contains quite comprehensive provisions on the right of a suspect to use an assistant. Our national legislation meets the requirements of the directive, with the exception of a few points. The Government's proposal proposes to tighten up the conditions under which the presence of a suspect's assistant in the hearings may be denied. According to the current law, it is possible to prohibit the presence of a lawyer in an interrogation for "painting criminal investigation reasons". This proposal proposes that the presence of an assistant be prohibited 'only if this is necessary in order to prevent a significant threat to the investigation of a crime'. There is a considerable difference in these wordings. With reference to my own work experience, I believe that these tightening ups are unnecessary and merely hinder the work of the preliminary investigation authority. The assistant already has enough opportunity to be involved in the interrogation. Experts consulted by the committee have also pointed out that the condition for the so-called ‘significant risk of a criminal investigation’ is unnecessarily high and limits the discretion and scope for action of the authorities. According to the preliminary investigation authorities, it should be sufficient to prohibit the presence of an assistant as necessary for the investigation of the offence. I fully agree with them on this. However, the proposed wording is in line with the requirements of the directive, and there is no national margin for manoeuvre in this respect, so we can also thank the EU for this reform — so thank you, EU!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u85	Mr President! I'm a representative. I agree with the angular that tightening up is pointless. In this respect, the legal protection of the suspect is still being strengthened. I believe that this has worked very well, and according to recent statistics, this same legal protection for the suspect of the crime even endangers part of the criminal investigation. For example, a recent study shows that in many cases home searches have not been carried out because we have today's legislation to establish the legal security of a suspect in a crime, that the police must reserve the opportunity for the target to be present during the search. Now that a person is apprehended in Turku and his home is in Rovaniemi, this person must be transported from Turku to Rovaniemi for a search before the search can be carried out. Today it has been shown that these searches are not carried out because it is so bureaucratic, so difficult, so difficult to carry out, and then you can ask whether the legal protection of the suspect of the crime is ahead of the investigation itself. In the spring, just before the last parliamentary elections, an estimate was made at the Ministry of the Interior, according to which, in certain cases, the police should also have the right to search the house even in secret, and it is also proposed that searches can be carried out before the crime has taken place, for the purpose of obtaining information. In this case, the crime could be prevented in advance. I personally hope that the government of our country will now take this statement of estimates made by the Ministry of the Interior during the previous government to the table and see once again whether the legal protection of the suspect is now ahead of the investigation of the crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u86	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Laukkanen said that improvements are being made to the legal protection of the suspect, and he considered these tightening ups to be a good thing. Personally, I am sick and tired of improving the legal security of the suspect and of making it more difficult to solve the crime. That is why I say that I believe that the legal protection of the person suspected of a crime in Finland and also of the person accused of the crime already today, before this reform, is quite adequate. It must always be assessed that the strengthening of the rights of this suspect is counterbalanced by the interest in the investigation of the offence. If we continue to look at this legal protection of the suspect and in various ways strengthen it and hinder the work of the police, then we will also make it more difficult to solve the crime and put the interest in solving the crime aside, even though it is a very important factor for society as a whole. Of course, I am not in favour of suspects having no rights; on the contrary, I am in favour of having the rights that such a civilized rule of law should have. But I do not think that it makes sense to keep staring at that side and making it difficult to solve crimes. For example, I would like to point out that at present this declaration of deprivation of liberty to those close to them may be postponed if such notification is particularly detrimental to the investigation of the crime. Well, that's a reasonable argument that we should be able to postpone if this reporting is particularly harmful to the investigation of a crime. — I'll take it from the toilet. [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : Just like that. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u89	Mr President! This is one of the highest-quality debates that is taking place in this Chamber. It would be nice if more of these were to be used for basic issues and discussions that go to the basic values of our society instead of such traditional signing-off. I would like to comment on Mr Heinonen's statement that this search code must be reviewed. Of course, these situations are completely absurd and alien to life. Similarly, I am concerned, as is Mr Zyskowicz, about the status of the victim of the crime. Especially the status of victims of violent and sexual crimes, and especially it subsequently supported and the return to normal life in Finland is still not in order. But when I have been involved in the interrogations, assisted the suspect and sat there quietly, watching that everything goes as it should in the rule of law, I cannot understand, for example, the criticism of Mr Kulmala and Mr Zyskowicz: How could it be possible for a person to have a professionally and ethically correct assistant present for questioning there? And if there is any doubt that it jeopardises the investigation of the crime, the question arises as to whether the crime will be solved in any way that the police cannot solve it. All of us know that excesses and inventing evidence and straightening corners must never be done in the pre-trial investigation. And at least I do not think of a situation in which a professional and smart assistant could have somehow jeopardised the investigation of that crime — a rather peculiar idea. But unfortunately, Mr President, I know that there has been a minor and that he has been questioned about some serious suspicions of crime without having a legally qualified assistant present. I do not think that is appropriate: if there is a person between the ages of 15 and 16 who is even suspected of committing a crime leading to imprisonment, then I think that the assistant should be there and this should be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u90	Mr President! Thank you all very much for this good debate, and in particular the representative. Yes, every word of what he said was a well thought-out understanding. Of course, it is quite clear that the police are opposed to this motion and to restricting their own activities in the event of an interview. However, the directive is based on the fact that the police have been found to be unreasonable in their actions against suspects and this central judicial principle, 'until proven otherwise', does not always apply in that hearing. I think it is very important that everyone in this country can experience, both the suspect and the police, that if he comes to terms with a similar situation, he can have proper legal assistance and legal protection — yes, it is the responsibility of every civilised country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u92	Mr President! What is really at the heart of this debate is the issue of the functioning of the judicial system, and, as has been said from the mouth of a very large number of colleagues, the legal security of the suspect — which is, in itself, very important, that it should also be improved and adhered to — we must always remember how we support them, who is doing this investigation, and we will also give them the resources and opportunities to carry out the investigation of the crime in order to ensure that this goes smoothly. Now that the real situation is that the police are experiencing a lack of resources on the side of the investigation, and the police are sure to remind each of us of this from time to time, could we consider whether there might be other, other legislation, things that we could facilitate in order to make this investigation a better success? One thing that comes to mind might be a place of reflection: however, when we have this obligation of pre-trial investigation in the legislation, and if we are thinking of very large cases where there may have been a few less serious crimes and then these more serious crimes, then the police in this case should also investigate these less serious crimes and the pre-trial investigation should be carried out in a model manner, even if it is the same perpetrator and so on, and necessarily these less serious crimes would have little effect on the conviction of this more serious crime. Perhaps it would be a good idea to have this type of debate if other legislation were to be able to alleviate the pressure on the investigation of the crime in particular, so that we also guarantee the police the best chance so that they will then be able to do this investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u93	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the representative — now I do not remember who it was — who highlighted the point of view of the victim of this crime. In my own very spontaneous speech, I did not emphasise that when I was talking about the interest in solving a crime. In other words, I see it as a strong interest for society as a whole to solve a crime, but it is also necessary, especially for the victim of crime, for him to feel that our rule of law also takes a fair view of his legitimate expectations that the person who committed the crime against him will receive an appropriate penalty for his crime. It was said here that it is understood that the police are opposed. I do not believe that the police are against this for their own sake, but I understand that it is the police who sees it as a task to solve crimes along with many other tasks and I am sure that it is not a step in the right direction in terms of its task, that is to say in terms of solving the crime. It was stated here that the rule of law, which Finland is and must always be, must provide adequate legal protection for all. I fully agree with that. We only disagree that, in my view, the current Finnish legislation on pre-trial and coercive measures and, for example, the example I mentioned when a person who has been informed of a person's arrest can be postponed, provide sufficient legal protection, for example in this case, for a suspect of a crime, because of course it should be possible to postpone it if it is particularly harmful to the investigation of a crime, as the current law provides. Finally, it is a good thing that there has been a broad consensus here that we should review the police's current operational obligations and see if there is any
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u94	Mr President! Thank you very much for this good debate. When it comes to the amendment of the law on pre-trial investigations, a few articles, specifically the treatment of people who have been kept by the police and the amendment of this law on legal aid, I myself, as a member of the Legal Aid Committee, will raise just a few small points. It is precisely this treatment of those detained by the police that would also include provisions for informing their guardians and social services of the loss of liberty of persons under the age of 18, which I consider to be a good thing. Secondly, there has been a good debate here on the need for an assistant and other matters, but it is also proposed to amend in this context that the assistant's remuneration may be waived if there have been very serious shortcomings and shortcomings in the handling of the matter by the assistant. This is not, therefore, based on the requirements of the directive, but is based on a programme of reform of justice and with the aim of increasing the means of monitoring it. But as far as this assessment of the effectiveness of the pre-trial investigation law as a whole is concerned, which has also been raised in this debate, I agree with what Mr Heinonen and Mr Zyskowicz have said, and Mr Räsänen too, that we must be able to assess how the pre-trial investigation law as a whole works, because we cannot increase the resources of the police in line with what the need for service and pressure is currently there. We don't have enough resources. So we have to be able — although it has only been a few years since the changes, yet there is a new Parliament — to assess how it can be reduced to the need for service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u95	Mr. Speaker! I would also like to take part in this very good debate on the responsibility of the police to conduct a preliminary investigation whenever there is cause for suspecting a crime. However, I fully agree with Mr Räsänen and Mrs Talvitie that, in this house, we should tackle this issue. At the moment, the police are in pain and policemen and women are feeling a bad conscience about the fact that things are not being resolved, and they cannot really legally prioritise what is being investigated, which is not being investigated. For example, when we are all there in the Administrative Committee, Mr Räsänen, me and Talvitie, we have been shown an example that, if there is a large financial crime, there may be a lot of mild fraud and then there will be those frauds and gross frauds, and the investigation of these minor frauds will not affect the overall sentence in any way, but officially and under current law they should be investigated. Yes, we should dare to make bold choices here in the house and do the basic work of the legislator and direct the police's pre-trial resources in the right direction in order to solve major, complex, serious crimes. This is where we have to stop putting the heads of all politicians in the sand, and we really have to take responsibility for this, not that the police take responsibility in everyday life. However, I am a little concerned about the tone of this debate that we could compromise legal certainty in order to deal with the crimes. It's a pretty dangerous path, ladies and gentlemen. For myself, at least to the very last, I believe in the principle that nine guilty persons would rather walk free than one innocent person being convicted. It is extremely dangerous if we start to compromise legal security in order to get the statistics on how to deal with crime. This does not mean, of course, that the police should not be given sufficient resources, and that is what we certainly want to do across party boundaries here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u96	Mr President! After all, this is based on an EU directive, and the fact that there are a lot of Member States in the EU and one can say that there are a few different levels of action between police and prosecutors and investigators in different EU countries would it have been the case that we in Finland have to tighten up our own legislation because of problems that have occurred and perhaps occur in some other EU countries? But on the other hand, I am very pleased that here, for example, representatives Räsänen and Kurvinen made a strong point about the need for the police, in certain circumstances, to be able to leave completely insignificant minor minor cross-subsidisations unexamined by their own decision and to focus on the essential. For example, it may be some huge drug case with a number of drug offences, so how far must these be investigated if and when it is out of the essence? Now the prosecutor can make these decisions, but the police can't. And I hope, Mr President, that in the Administrative Committee and, of course, in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, this matter will now be promoted. Mr Kurvis had an excellent speech. Unfortunately, it got a little worse towards the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u97	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz here has hit the nail in considering this case law in other EU countries and how, as it were, we are going to be a little bit overtaken by the directive. I believe that if there had been some room for manoeuvre here, the committee's report would have been a little different, but when it did not, then we had to consider going as the instructions have come, and this is this new EU time. One last point I would like to raise, and that is the new active role played by the assistant. Now that he has only had the opportunity to sit down and ask some questions, he can now take part in the conversation both with this suspect and with the prosecutor. Although he cannot direct that debate, he can still be active, and this is a very important safety factor for the whole process. But, as has been said here, this overall assessment and viewing of the pre-trial investigation law is certainly ahead of us. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u98	Mr President! I am not sure whether Mr Kurvinen referred to my earlier speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u101	Mr President! There has been a very broad consensus in this debate that perhaps more broadly this pre-trial law should then be re-examined. After all, a lot of research has been carried out by the police and the Ministry of the Interior on what sort of things might be possible to change there. In fact, I am now appealing to the government parties to send a message to the ministers, so that the Ministry of Justice, whose administration this law is to be amended, should go on working on these changes so that the police can be better empowered to prioritize, for example at the pre-trial stage, what are really the qualifications that give us the results, and what may then be the ones that are perhaps not so important, or what will be done when it comes to a slightly better day. We hope, of course, that at some point we will also be able to increase these police resources, but when that day does not seem to be tomorrow, it would be good to go through this legislative aspect at least now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u102	Mr President! The draft law before us and the committee's report on this matter are well founded. This is, after all, the implementation of these European Union directives we love, but in this case these directives will guarantee the legal protection of the citizen in a situation where he is then arrested and suspected of committing a crime: how he is allowed to use an assistant, and whether there is any justification, for example, for prohibiting the use of this assistant in an interrogation. It is understandable that, for example, in the most serious drug offences, where there is the possibility that the use of an assistant might cause difficulties for this research, the overall benefit will be examined, but it must also be borne in mind that human rights agreements and the provisions of these human rights treaties are always in force in Europe. But there must always be the overall consideration as to whether this advantage and the restriction that has been achieved are proportionate to each other, as is always the case in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That is why this bill is a good and justified proposal for clarity on this issue, precisely so that even the most serious crimes can be solved without any greater difficulty when the law is clear and unambiguous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u103	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 21/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u104	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the vehicle registration law. The purpose of the proposal is to improve the efficiency of the electronic registration procedures for vehicles. The new law would contribute to the Government Programme’s objective of building public services user-oriented and digitally so as to ensure that the so-called productivity leap needed for public finances succeeds. This would also contribute to the Government Programme’s objective of a smooth transfer of information between authorities. The objectives are very much to be welcomed. The most important point is that the proposal also proposes to amend the law on the processing of personal data in the Border Guard and the processing of personal data. The law adopted in Customs so that the Finnish Transport Safety Agency obtains from the Border Guard and Customs the criminal information necessary for the purposes of the training permit, the driver's driving licence and the licence of the traffic instructor and for the assessment of the suitability of the driving licence. This proposal, if successful, will increase the cost-effectiveness of public administration activities and improve the reliability of registers, inter alia by increasing the transfer of registry data between public authorities. This should be in the interests of all of us, and at this point I thank the government for a good proposal which I hope will go all the way to the finish line. Public authorities and services in the transport sector must be made more efficient and further developed by dismantling unnecessary regulation and promoting the use of electronic procedures and services. I therefore hope that further proposals of this kind will continue to come from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u105	Mr President! I guess you could say that the digital leap is progressing. All measures to make more use of modern electronic technologies and our online world in the field of public administration must definitely be introduced. Unfortunately, Finland has fallen slightly from this development of information societies and information societies, and now, under the leadership of the Sipilä Government, we have to reach this distance away, but fortunately, this kind of leap is still taken. When we go to a world where everything is at the end of the fiber, information moves and information moves quickly on the networks, data protection is very important, but even now in Finland it is perhaps a little balanced with the fact that how we have adequate protection but that we do not go completely mad. I fully agree with Mr Kulmala that it must be possible, in a flexible way, to exchange information from the authorities, to get decisions to people and businesses quickly and then to allow security authorities, such as the Border Guard or the police, to carry out their own tasks and to keep our everyday lives safe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u106	Mr President! As previous speakers have already said, this government proposal increases the cost-effectiveness of public administration activities and also improves the reliability of registers. That's a good thing. This government proposal is precisely the digital leap forward that we need, and also takes forward, not just to stay and think about things. This government proposal will, among other things, improve the efficiency of driving licences and other licensing procedures. It will be easier to apply for a driving licence and other permits. It is also a good thing for people, for citizens, that we do not have to visit a passport photo many more times: that is where the files of the authorities are already passing out the information smoothly. This proposal will also provide cost savings for Trafi and thus for the citizens, and will make life easier for the citizens. Then there's the relationship with the government program. This government proposal is also the streamlining of people's daily lives and work and also the dismantling of standards and bureaucracy. It is here that the construction of public services becomes user-driven and primarily digital so that we can succeed in the productivity leap that is being sought. It is also a good thing that the public administration now commits itself to asking citizens and businesses the same information only once. It is a good thing that citizens often do not have to be bothered. It is also a good thing that the transfer of information between the authorities is now smoothing out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u107	Mr President! This bill on the amendment of the Vehicle Registration Act is a very good proposal and corresponds to the objective of digitalisation mentioned in the Government Programme. It is a very good thing that this bill also takes us a little bit further in digitalisation, but it is strange, on the other hand, that at the moment, for example, we can fill in a tax return on the Internet to a large extent or make some changes to our own tax information directly on the Internet without any further effort, but then the vehicle registration issue is a little different. But now we're fixing it. Of course, when digitalisation is practiced and carried forward, we always run into the issue of data protection. In Finland, data protection, especially in the health sector, has gone a long way, which in itself is a good thing. It is also a matter of intimacy protection: human data must not be available to everyone, and that is clear. But taking care of this authority in such a way that we can deal with these, even though car registration or whatever else, in digital form as smoothly as possible, serves this saving of the costs of our Finnish society. We have to go. Unfortunately, we are a long way behind the southern neighbour Estonia, for example, where these things are much longer than we are. Although we pretended to be an example of digitalisation in Finland in the past, we are now lagging behind on this point — but that’s all, after all, in skiing competitions it’s just a little bit of an incentive to ski a little bit harder. I hope that, during this term of government, the government will bring more such proposals and then, in due course, when the new government begins years later, it will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u108	Mr President! Well, it's easy to agree with the digitalization. In time, we were certainly pioneers in these matters, under the leadership of Nokia and many others we were the first to introduce them. And when, for example, our southern neighbour, to which Mr Hoskonen referred, came later, Estonia, they did, of course, get better and more recent technology and technology. We now have a place for this kind of updating. I very much welcome the fact that these systems will be converted into electronic form, and also that they will have a better dialogue with each other, and also that electronic registration extracts will come, that they will no longer need to be printed on cars, because they will already be available today in the context of all police cars if the registration data need to be checked. One of the things that is now becoming digital is the government's planned, which in itself seems to me to be a rather absurd tax on motorcycles, which, according to my knowledge, is being created in such a model that it could not be taken out of the register, as is currently the case with cars, so that there would not be a tax. I know a lot of motorcycle enthusiasts with a lot of motorcycles. They would not be able to get them out, but they would be paid if they did not, for example, transfer them there to books in Estonia. After all, it is absurd if our registers are electronic, that these devices cannot be taken out of service in the same way as cars and thus also that user fee. Now that we are talking about a vehicle register, I would like to raise this issue when the government is still preparing this model, to consider that this tax would also be reasonable and reasonable for motorcycles if it were to be introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u109	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u110	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Act on Equality between Women and Men and the Act on the Ombudsman for Equality, which will enable measures to be taken to achieve reconciliation and strengthen it in situations of suspicion of discrimination. I regard mediation in such cases as a very important and important priority, although it is not always possible. According to the law, there must be preconditions for mediation. Mediation requires the consent of all parties and the consent may be withdrawn at any stage of mediation. The aim of mediation is to help all parties to find mutually acceptable solutions — sometimes compromises — and ways to compensate for the harm caused by the crime or dispute. Volunteers trained as mediators under the guidance and supervision of professional staff. There is generally good experience of mediation and a significant reduction in the number of cases brought before district courts. In comparison to the trial, settlement is therefore an inexpensive and quick means of legal protection. The proposal not only improves access to justice but also harmonises the provisions of the Equality Act and the Equality Act. The Government's proposal would improve the legal protection of a person who has experienced discrimination on grounds of sex by strengthening the Low Threshold Remedies of the Equality Act. The proposal would also harmonise the remedies of the Equality Act and the Equality Act. These are all very important points for us. The amendments proposed in this government proposal strengthen the legal protection of the parties by introducing a low threshold in legislation to resolve the suspicions of discrimination, and I believe that this proposal is more than necessary. The Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities has also considered the proposal to be necessary and appropriate, although it draws attention to the fact that the proposal has not dealt with the functioning of the reconciliation procedure in education and training. As the committee also points out, the level of protection against discrimination against pupils in education under the Basic Education Act, both minors and adults, should be similar to that of other education and also comply with the provisions of the Equality Act. This point needs to be changed by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u111	Mr President! I believe that this draft law has taken a final form in the report which, in my opinion, is very good and worthy of support. I think that equality between men and women is at a very good level in Finland. We do have things that need to be healed. I am a little surprised that this matter of such importance has not given rise to greater interest in Parliament. At least in that public forum, when things are discussed, there will be a huge number of experts, but from the point of view of the great Chamber of Parliament, this is not very interesting. But it is very good and very important. In any case, the issue of equality in this bill goes a long way. This possibility of reconciliation in this procedure, in which equality cases are dealt with in courts — or in civil proceedings in general — is a very good thing. Whenever things can be agreed that you do not have to go to the court and that you can settle things in such a way that it satisfies both parties, it is definitely the best solution. And the best thing about this, Mr President, is that the law will also be amended with regard to the Ombudsman for Equality, so that he will be given this task of promoting reconciliation, which I think is very good, because it clearly saves the resources of society and, above all, achieves the situation that usually exists in reconciliation: when things are settled, it usually leaves both of us with a good mind and then things go smoothly. But if the court decides, then the court always makes decisions on the basis of what the evidence is, and then one of the parties in general is rather dissatisfied with the outcome. But after the reconciliation, everyone will be happy. Such bill proposals would be more and more welcome for the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u112	Mr. Speaker! As has been the case here in the debate, often in disputes, it is a matter of termination of employment or even of an economic dispute, even if neither party, as it were, wins and, in national terms, ends the dispute in the middle, but it leaves both sides feeling better that they feel that this matter has been resolved better. Every time you go to trial and you have to get a court order, it leaves more marks on the spiritual level. Certainly mediation must be promoted, and especially in such smaller disputes we would need more forums where we could compromise. For example, in matters relating to custody of children, there is very good experience of this so-called Follo mediation. We are talking about equality between the sexes and reconciliation in these situations of discrimination, and the fact is that all forms of discrimination and bullying are a scourge or folklore in Finnish schools and workplaces. At the moment, it is overwhelmingly displaced. We must do everything we can to prevent discrimination and bullying. Of course, one thing that is very important to mention here too is that more serious crimes and more serious negligence on equality and gender equality are generally incompatible with mediation and that no one should ever be forced into conciliation. If a person wishes to seek legal protection elsewhere, file a report of an offence or go to court, he must always have the right to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u113	Mr President! This bill is basically good and supported, takes things forward and brings in more tools to sort things out. However, with so many speeches here that highlight and value conciliation, I cannot fail to point out that there are also those disputes that are simply inappropriate for mediation. In the opinion of the mediation people, this is violence in their own right, often involving physical dependence, emotional dependence, economic dependence and submissiveness, and even if both parties are willing to compromise, the outcome may nevertheless be unduly poor for either party. In these situations, mediation should only be used in a very prudent and exceptional way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u114	Mr Kulmala, I think this is a normal speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u115	Mr President! I would like to comment on Mr Järvinen's speech in such a way that, as I understand it, it is not possible to use mediation in relation to crime in the case of intimate violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u116	Mr President! In the case of intimate violence, mediation can be used in part, it is possible, and that is the reason why I wanted to speak. Fortunately, for the large part of intimate partner violence, there is more to it than the crime of the plaintiff today, that is, if we see the battered spouse, the police have the right to investigate and prosecute it, regardless of whether the spouse wants it or not. But I know that even mediation is used for partner violence, and sometimes, in a few cases, it also produces good results, but, as I said, only very prudently and exceptionally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u117	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u118	Mr President! In this bill, sexual harassment is proposed as a criminal offence under official prosecution. Sexual harassment is governed by Chapter 20(5a) of the Penal Code, which provides that 'in the event of an act of sexual harassment which infringes this right of sexual self-determination,the penalty laid down in another Chapter Sexual harassment is currently a criminal offence against the plaintiff, which means that the police are obliged to investigate the case only if the plaintiff claims punishment for the crime. Mr President! A little background: When sexual harassment entered the Criminal Code in 2014, the number of these criminal trials was high after just over a year, indicating that there was a need for the law. Sexual harassment typically refers to cases where someone touches another person without permission in the genital area, buttocks or breasts so that the subject experiences it as sexual — and as an example of New Year’s Eve: it was depicted as touching, pressing, and licking the face. According to the Helsinki Police Department, the stalker is usually unknown to the victim, but Rape Crisis Center Tukinainen says that they have also been contacted by people who have reported sexual harassment, especially at the workplace. Victims of sexual harassment often experience fear of continuing their work, and they wonder whether or not they can report a crime and what the result will be. Mr President! Indeed, one of the drivers of this bill was the problems of investigating these suspected harassments committed last New Year in Helsinki. Lasse Aapio, Head of the Helsinki Police Department, explained how there were lawyers who did not demand punishment but wanted the crimes to be reported to the police. It is also justified to make sexual harassment subject to official prosecution because Finland emphasises human rights, including the right to safety and physical integrity. People should be protected against all forms of sexual and gender-based violence. Nor can we minimize the potential long-term effects of sexual harassment on the victim’s life. Mr President! Furthermore, the annulment of the waiver of special sexual harassment measures is intended to reduce the possibilities for the perpetrator of sexual harassment to avoid criminal sanctions, e.g. by exerting pressure on the plaintiff to withdraw the report of the offence he has committed or to request non-enforcement of the charge. The annulment of the provision would express society's view of sexual harassment as a punishable act, whose reprehensibility does not depend on whether the plaintiff wishes to be prosecuted or not. The prosecution of sexual harassment without making the request of the plaintiff a special reason for not bringing the charge could also reduce the pressure on victims of sexual harassment. On the other hand, the applicant’s request not to prosecute would still be possible to be taken into account as one factor in the application of the reasonable ground.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u119	Mr President! Sexual harassment is currently a criminal offence against the plaintiff, which means that the police are obliged to investigate the case only if the plaintiff claims punishment for the crime. I think there is a problem here, because the plaintiff may also be a person with a disability who does not have a guardian or anything else involved, or it is a person who should be underprivileged, but is therefore not registered. In the case of a child under the age of 18, the incompetence is clear, but not in the case of a person who, due to his or her development or other circumstances, could be incompetent but not present. A disabled person means a minor, i.e. a person under the age of 18 years, and an adult who has been declared disabled. A person who has been declared invalid can only decide for himself on the matter of his or her person if he or she is able to understand the meaning of the matter. This requires the existence of an adequate understanding. Only in the absence of sufficient understanding does his guardian have the right to make a decision on the matter. But what if this guardian is not involved, for example, in the marketplace where possible sexual harassment takes place? In this bill, sexual harassment is being proposed as a criminal offence under official prosecution. Sexual crime always causes injuries in the victim. The victim of sexual crime is like a tree that is damaged but remains alive. Sexual crime may not be understood unless you have experienced it yourself, whether it is a man or a woman. I think this amendment of the law is a good one, and hopefully it will reach the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u120	Mr President! This bill came from a request from the police. Sexually unwanted behavior is degrading, humiliating and hostile. The right to immunity is one of the highest values. It is justified to become subject to official sexual harassment charges because Finland emphasises human rights, including the right to safety and physical integrity. People should be protected against all forms of sexual and gender-based violence. This initiative is a good one. I am in favour of this and I hope that this will progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u121	Mr President! This bill at the signing stage has, for some reason, passed me by, and I would like to join with the signatories of this bill, which is a large number of them. At least there are signatories to the convention, the Finns of Peru and the city centre. I would be happy to add my name to it so that sexual harassment would be turned from the plaintiff’s crime into a criminal offence under official charge. That is quite justified. This refers to the events of New Year’s Eve, but similar situations may arise, and some of the targets of harassment may not be reached, or they will not be known. They may be ashamed of it, or for some other reason they are not all known. That is why it is justified that camera images, for example, can be used to solve such crimes. At the end of the day, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that we are gradually getting tougher on the convictions of sexual crimes. We have a number of good legislative initiatives at the moment in Parliament's deliberations, including our bill, in which we propose that gross sexual abuse of children should never become obsolete as crimes. Of course, we are already talking about a completely different level of crime than we are talking about here. But such groping, sexual harassment is not one of the good habits, and, as described above, the integrity of all must be safeguarded, and this contributes to strengthening it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u122	Mr President! In his legislative initiative, the representative, Mr Ruoho, has taken a position on a matter of great importance to the general public's sense of justice and also to social justice. This is about the status of the victim of crime and his rights. After all, the role of the victim was also emphasised today in the discussion of another draft law. Mr President! At times, the victim of crime, especially sexual crime, may feel so ashamed that he may begin to imagine giving an unconscious impulse to the crime. In such a case, he may also begin to understand the offender and may be troubled by the so-called Stockholm syndrome. In such cases, the victim does not necessarily want or be able to demand punishment for the offender, even if it is fully justified. Mr President! This bill is very welcome and allows the offender to be punished even if the plaintiff is unable to demand punishment. Sexual harassment would now be a crime under official charge. The subject is also reflected in the public perception of the general sense of justice and its realisation. A great deal has been said about the length of sentences on sexual and violent offences, which Mr Heinonen also made very clear in his previous speech. I believe that these sentences and penalties should be tightened up. Although this bill is not directly linked to the strictness of the penalty scale, it is nevertheless a clear signal that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u123	Mr President! I would like to thank colleagues here for their excellent contributions, and I was particularly touched and delighted by the fact that we understand the role of the victim as a victim of this kind. As I also pointed out earlier in my own speech, if this happens in working cultures, then many times a person is afraid of it even for his own work, what happens to it, whether it will continue to work then, if you report such undesirable behavior. Yesterday, Mr President, I last heard from my friend a case and an illustration that was obviously sexual harassment, but at the same time we both knew that this particular culture of standards, which we have in social behaviour and so on, in a way prevents it from being taken forward. Indeed, I would see that it would make it easier for the victim to take responsibility as it did in the past when it was a case of assault in a private area, too, under official charge. I would see a little similar logic in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u124	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u125	Mr President! This is the second time in this House, which is, of course, a little strange for Parliament's authority and working methods. I would therefore hope that, in future, legislative initiatives with the same content can be dealt with at the same time. But it's serious. Savonlinna is about to close down the teacher training institute from 1.8.2018. Approximately 900 students are studying at the teacher training institute and its overall impact on Savonlinna's regional economy is a turnover of approximately EUR 12 million and 300 jobs. Relative to the population, the impact of student losses is the same as if half of Helsinki University were to be abolished from Helsinki. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä has promised that Savonlinna will be compensated for this closure in such a way that Savonlinna’s regional development situation will be better than before the closure of OKL. To this end, a working group has also been set up to prepare possible compensations. In order to compensate for the losses resulting from the closure of the Teacher Education Institute, the main measures are measures related to the development of education and skills to support and strengthen Savonlinna’s vitality, business structure and business development in the most sustainable and long-term. The most important thing now is that the Prime Minister will deliver on his promises and that Savonlinna will be given at least as many training places as we will lose as a result of the closure of the teacher training institution. For this reason, the management of the city requires that the government of the country genuinely consider a further 420 starting places for Savonlinna University of Applied Sciences in South-East Finland. The fields of education have also been considered. Engineering training in wood construction and industrial digitalisation at 100 new starting points is based on Savonlinna’s position as the largest concentration of Finnish mechanical forest industry and the unique product development environment of the fibre laboratory in the City’s Technology Park. Another key educational initiative is the national competence centre of rehabilitation education at 100 starting points in Savonlinna as part of the national division of labour. Savonlinna already has a national centre for well-being, including central hospital, rehabilitation centre Kruunupuisto, spa Casino, and the rehabilitation hotel duke for the rehabilitation of working life. The University of Applied Sciences in the field of sports would also strengthen Savonlinna's strengths, as the city has the only sports college in Eastern Finland and its infrastructure expertise and good attractiveness already exists. But there are other wishes. The departure of teacher training from Savonlinna will have a very negative impact on both the rental and owner-occupied housing markets. The immediate impact is that Savonlinnan Opiskelija-asunnot Oy and Savonlinna Rental Houses Oy have drifted into a completely unsustainable economic situation. The loans from the Treasury should be fully forgiven because otherwise both companies will go bankrupt — an investment of around EUR 18 million. In addition, a total of EUR 5 to 10 million is requested from the State in order to dismantle the excess capacity of some 320 homes in the city area. Savonlinna suggests that as state functions it could be transferred as compensation, for example, to the National Board of Antiquities. A very significant number of facilities will be released from the university, which would make sense to use by regionalising state functions. Transfers of tasks falling within the remit of the National Board of Antiquities should be made because the city already has a strong and diverse cluster of museums and tourism, which could develop the museum industry from the perspective of the tourism industry. Savonlinna has the National Board of Antiquities unit, Olavinlinna, Regional Museum, Forest Museum Lusto and numerous small museums. The city also proposes the regionalisation of Metsähallitus' activities in the Savonlinna region, which is based on a strong cluster of forests, of which we have many examples in favour of forest management, development, location of museum and research activities and, of course, also as UPM, Metsä Wood and Andritz. We also have strong fibre, energy and life cycle expertise in Savonlinna Fibre Laboratory. Savonlinna's wish list and alternatives to compensation also include fairway projects. The City of Savonlinna proposes that the transfer of the deep-pass from Kyrönsalm to Laatatsalm would be carried out as a whole project and that the project would include a financial contribution of EUR 12 million required for the renewal of the rail bridge. Train connection to Pieksämäki as well as Parikkala's international border crossing point are also on the wish list. Above all, the most important thing in this situation is that the emergency services and surgery activities of Savonlinna Central Hospital can also be confirmed in connection with the social services solutions. It is absolutely essential that we be allowed to carry out emergency services in special medical care, and this policy must be ensured. Emergency services for surgery, internal diseases and anesthesia, as well as adequate diagnostic services, must be secured at Savonlinna Central Hospital in order to maintain emergency services, or we cannot even maintain existing university of applied sciences. But, finally, the most important thing is that when a government reduces government activities in one city, in one area with such a hard hand, it is the only sustainable way to replace some other state activities, preferably places of study, if we do not have our own university. If we also get some innovations or implementations from business and business, then they will be something more to this, but it is now absolutely essential to talk about what state functions the region can receive as compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u126	Mr President! This bill, i.e. Järvinen and others, under discussion, is, as it were, a sister or parallel initiative for the Act 31/2016, made by MPs Kaj Turunen and Hanna Kosonen. The purpose of this bill is to create a new university in Finland, which would be by amending the university law. This bill stems from the anxiety and pain that the first signatory, Mr Järvinen, well described in his speech, of the difficult situation in Savonlinna, which arose even if the majority of Parliament and the government wanted something else. After all, the government now has this so-called Savonlinna task force, which then seeks these means. Good suggestions came from that toilet, which could help to ease this situation in the Savonlinna region and bring a better future to the area. I cannot help but mention here that the improvement in the state shares of island municipalities was one of the things that came to light in the early autumn and which, for its part, will make the situation in Savonlinna easier. Mr President! I have the courage to think a little about universities anyway and the regional significance of universities. It is quite clear that in the last 20 and 30 years, the regional centres with a university have been doing well, such as Jyväskylä is a good example, and then those where the highest level of education is not available have been doing a little less well or even declining. On this point, I would like to raise the issue of the role of university centres. We have in many developing provincial centres, such as Seinäjoki and Kokkola, university centres, which, a little as they live every year, year after year, in the uncertainty of what the future will look like, even though they are doing a very important regional task. Their legal status is too thin at the moment. I believe that the role and tasks of university centres should be more clearly enshrined in the university law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u127	Mr President! Indeed, university centres have been mentioned many times in this Chamber. Sometimes the money has been cut and sometimes returned, and I agree with Mr Kurvise that it would be justified to include it in the law. This initiative by Mr Järvinen in a certain way shows some of the previous speeches made by the Greens in this Chamber, at least to a rather strange light. The government has been robbed here and accused of this abolition of Savonlinna's teacher training, but now Mr Järvinen and his colleagues — here are signed by Karimäki, the plant, among others, from green — admit that 'the government cannot impose the autonomy of the university in the places where each university teaches'. This does put the Greens' speeches under a rather strong populist shadow, at least, when here the Minister of Education from Grahn-Laaso during several questioning hours, many other debates have accused him of doing this or why he did not intervene. Now, however, you write quite clearly that this has been the case. Former Minister of Education, Mr Gustafsson has also accused the government of why Savonlinna's OKL was not rescued, and we know well that during the previous government, where the Greens were and as Minister of Education Gustafsson, the University of Tampere closed the Hämeenlinna Teacher Education Institute. I myself come from the region and know the pain and I share this pain that has been brought here at Savonlinna, so I fully agree that these measures should be continued, as Mr Kurvinen pointed out. But it is honest in these discussions to keep the truth on the table, which now also the Greens, in their own bill LA 38/2016, admit that the government is not in a position to order, i.e. the government has not taken this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u128	Mr President! I'll start with the island sectional supplement. It is a great thing that they have now been restored, but we must remember that it is not about any kind of university compensation for Savonlinna, but rather about the injustice that has been corrected after a few years. On the other hand, as far as this university is concerned: It is clear that no university in this country can decide for itself what subjects to teach, what degrees to give, but it is always the responsibility of the ministry. And, Mr Heinonen, it is quite clear that the government cannot say to any university that you are obliged to teach in a particular place. But the government has the power to decide on its own will if it wants, for example, teacher training in a locality. If there is no alternative, if it does not convince the University of Eastern Finland or the University of Helsinki or any other university to agree to it, then ultimately this is exactly what we now have on the table, namely the creation of a new university. This initiative has been taken precisely because, when a reasonable number of board members have tried to slip behind the decision made by the University of Eastern Finland in this situation, now that there is an initiative from their own university on the table, the government has the power to set up a university and to ensure that teachers are widely trained in this country and not in just one place in Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u129	Mr President! No one has snuck behind anything, but exactly as you have written on this bill. You write that 'the government cannot order past the university's autonomy in the locations where each university gives instruction'. However, in this Chamber you have accused the government of being responsible for the end of it. I agree that the government can set up new universities, and we will also be happy to take Hämeenlinna to the University of Hämeenlinna and certainly to every OKL city of our own, if we decide to do so, it is true. But it is dishonest to accuse the government of this decision that teacher training is ending in Savonlinna. That decision has been made by the University of Eastern Finland, as you yourself say in this bill, and it is good that it is now written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u130	Mr. Speaker! I shall start now with the fact that Mr Järvinen may have underestimated this change in the legislation on state participation in the island regions. However, I would like to point out that it is a question of the flow of money that comes to the regions and that comes to the city and, in view of the vitality of the Savonlinna region, it does have some meaning, although I understand that of course it does not replace higher education and it does not bring places of study — that is another matter, it is being worked on together. However, I wonder, as Mr Heinonen did, about the greens: there are probably not enough wheels, but there are five or six wheels, or whether there are enough. There is now a great deal of concern about the higher education of small provincial centres. When you went to the previous government, the government of Katainen—Stubb, even though the Ministry of the Interior was closed down and the VP Greens of Seolia, and then suddenly this country’s higher education is judged So maybe this is a little bit like driving a lot of wheels or being a little forgetful. But, on the whole, Mr President, I am sure that I, as a representative of the centre, am behind a great deal of expansion of university education and the creation of new universities. I mean, even if it's all right for Seinäjoki, it's all right for the university.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u131	Mr President! The positions have not lived, the line has been maintained, and we recognise in particular that the dismantling and abolition of Kajaani's teacher training centre was an absolute mistake,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u134	Mr President! Now it's time to remember the old ones, but we haven't forgotten in Häme that Tampere took the teacher's education institution. I was raised by Hämeenlinna OKL myself, and it was the best OKL in Finland, including all indicators, for a long time and until the end. They graduated faster than from any other university to become Masters. It was the hardest place to get there, which indicated its attraction and attractiveness. Of course, I understand that some of the staff wanted to transfer it to Tampere, because they live in Tampere. When the staff who actively drove it, i.e. the management of the University of Tampere and some of these teachers of OKL, lives in Tampere, it was of course nice to have that university there, but it also did not increase the level of Finnish teacher education and regional equity. I do not understand that decision either, but now I understand that the Greens have considered that solution to be all right. And Hämeenlinna has not received any compensation from the government since the end of that OKL.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u135	Mr President! This is my last speech on this matter and on this legislative initiative, but I will only say now that this quite moderate debate on higher education policy has taken place that, like Mr Järvinen, I would not underestimate the educational needs of any of the regional centres or the damage that could have been caused by the reduction in higher education. As I said in my first speech, it is quite clear that the university is very important to the surrounding region and to the cities where the universities are located. Regional universities have been a Finnish success story, so I understand perfectly well the evil that still exists in Hämee and what is in Hämeenlinna. Yes, I think it is very important that higher education be strengthened in Hämeenlinna, Seinäjoki, Kokkola and Kajaani. I think it would be very interesting to find ways how universities of applied sciences and university centres could together be born or become such provincial universities and create a little bit of this kind of phase number two for Finnish provincial universities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u136	Mr President! In this country, a wide range of university closure decisions have been taken, including, of course, the start-up decisions of different degrees. I could also make an example of it: During the previous period, when I was in Parliament, we decided to resume dental training in Kuopio. The reason for this was clear — the teeth of the Eastern Finns were in pretty bad shape — and the result now is that the condition of the teeth in Eastern Finland is clearly better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-06-ps-96.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
