ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u2	Mr President! There is therefore a government proposal to amend the Act on excise duties on liquid fuels and the Act on excise duties on electricity and certain fuels. It is good to say at the outset that there is not so much time for the last increase. In this respect, it is justified to consider whether this timing is now correct, whether the government has adequately monitored the impact of previous tax increases, in particular on the increase in housing costs and the distribution of income, and has taken the necessary action on that basis. It is very obvious, according to the information received in the course of this case, that the environmental criteria required in fact, in addition to these fiscal criteria, are also not directly being met. Where the majority of the committee considers this proposal necessary and appropriate, it should be noted that the SDP does warn that the studies have not been carried out sufficiently so that we can assess the impact of these tax increases on housing costs and income distribution. The position of many low-income people has become even stronger as a result of government cuts, and the rise in excise duty on liquid fuels will lead to an increase in human spending. That is why we object as a proposal for a statement that 'the Parliament requires the government to monitor the impact of tax increases on the increase in housing costs and income distribution and, if necessary, to take action'. Mr President! With this tax increase in liquid fuels, i.e. an increase in excise duty, the Government is also pursuing energy, environmental and industrial policy objectives. The fact is, however, that the proposed tax increases have very different effects on these objectives and even very contradictory effects. For our part, therefore, we stress the importance of increasing environmental governance in taxation, but we note that these arguments for the government's proposal are indeed lame. At the same time as these objectives are also pursued in the big formula in terms of fiscal objectives, it has to be acknowledged that the government is acting in the opposite direction. It is a great loss that energy aid, for example, is now being reformed so that in reality it is no longer taking into account the opportunities for people to genuinely change their behaviour on the basis of increased environmental governance in tax policy. Few of us believe that the heating system of an oil-heated house, for example, will be explicitly changed by an increase in excise duty. It is therefore important that these measures on environmental governance are taken widely on the whole government's side, and in this respect it is very disappointing that the government's housing and environmental policy is unfortunately doing the opposite. That is why we want to call on the government to be frank, and with the following statement, which is therefore contained in our objection to draft statement 2, we say: 'The Parliament requires that the energy subsidy be reformed and that it be given the necessary authorisation from the whole of the correction funding. Effective energy aid can contribute to the energy efficiency of small houses and thus housing and reduce greenhouse gas emissions." With these proposals, Mr President, I have objected to our proposals for statements and I hope that they will be taken into account here in Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u3	Madam President! Quite exactly four years ago, during the reign of Katainen, when the Socialist representative, Mr Urplainen, was Minister of Taxation, the price of 98 octane petrol was 30 cents higher than at present and the price of diesel 24 cents higher than at present. It was then, in the autumn of 2012, a time that never existed before the price of fuels was higher. What did the government do then? At least he didn't lower the tax. Now, in this situation, the government, by more than two cents, is increasing the prices of these liquid fuels, which is to say that the price to the consumer on the meter today is clearly cheaper than it was when the Social Democrats were responsible for this tax policy. In this respect, it can therefore be said with satisfaction that prices have fallen and consumers' purchasing power is better in this regard today than it was when the Social Democrats were in the grip of power. Of course, the increase in the price of liquid fuels is not to be welcomed, but in this situation and in view of environmental considerations, among other things, it is less bad than many other measures, and in this respect the government's line is worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u4	Madam President! When we talk about energy taxation, fuel taxation, as the majority of the committee's report says, that is balancing. It is a balancing act with the acquisition of fiscal returns, then environmental governance, and when we talk about the fuels of machinery, talk about diesel or other energy taxation, then it also involves the needs of industrial policy, and this balance is quite contradictory. On the other hand, we want environmental governance and we want fiscal impact, and yet, a little as opposed to these objectives, return systems are being introduced to reduce or compensate for both environmental governance and fiscal returns. Overall, efforts have been made to build the entire fuel tax system in such a way that all these aspects can be taken into account, but there is still room for further development. It must be remembered that these tax increases do indeed affect housing costs, and it must be taken into account, followed. Then these renovations, energy efficiency improvements and the development of heating systems are very important. That is why I support Mr Kiuru's proposals on protest, which is a joint objection between the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u5	Mr President! In fact, this theme is essentially linked to what was recently announced in the climate and energy strategy, which means that the bio-component will be mixed more with liquid fuels in the future, and that is a big deal, especially with the plans that have now been outlined in the strategy, which means that a really significant part will be a domestic bio-component in the future. That means new jobs, it means new investments, it is more environmentally sustainable and it also improves the country's self-sufficiency. We are currently far too dependent on imported energy. In the future, we will be increasingly domestic, we will have more jobs and then these investments. We've already seen the first ones and we're waiting for more. When it comes to liquid fuel for transport, this future positive change should be quoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u6	Mr President! The Finns of Peru are not going to get anywhere now because this election program has now been eaten. I quote: "The abolition of car tax is one of the key projects in our tax policy. The tax losses resulting from this should not be compensated by increases in the gas tax or user charge." This was said by the party secretary Riikka Slunga-Poutsalo one and a half weeks before the parliamentary elections. And what happens now? Fuel taxation will rise by more than 2 cents per litre and diesel will increase even further. The fact that other parties, such as the Social Democrats, are also thinking about the environmental impact and are striving towards sustainable development is not enough, Mr Kankaaniemi, to base such a historical comparison at all. I wish this were a genuine question of wanting to steer towards more environmentally sustainable behaviour, but this – as everyone in this Chamber knows – is a purely fiscal patch-up when the government had to find some returns for itself, and it is all the more tragic that this has come about. As has been said here, these increases in taxes on heating and transport fuels have a major impact on society, above all on the cost of living. However, living in Finland produces the majority of greenhouse gas emissions and is a larger proportion than the European average. In this respect, this development is dangerous. As the price of oil is already low and, at the same time, energy subsidies for dwellings are being abolished, there is a situation in which the incentive to switch to land heat, for example, will be further reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u7	Madam President! This increase in the fuel tax is understandable, of course, because more government revenue must be obtained from somewhere so that we gradually begin to balance the state economy. The situation in which we continue to live on debt is not good. This is a single budget law, the world is not going to fall, but it is important to keep that big line in mind: in the future, Finland will have to make more and more fuels produced from its own raw materials, both petrol and diesel, to increase the share of domestic fractions, as the government has already decided. It is a firm intention that Finland will increase its own economy by getting more work in Finland. It should also be borne in mind that, in these critical speeches, the critics should also take account of the fact that, of course, fossil fuels on the world market will continue to be an important factor in the next few decades, for example, in the fuel trade in cars, but we must now, at last, keep our own national policy in which we are gradually moving towards our own products. We have heard such constant criticism in this Chamber that the government is doing this or that the government is doing this — it is important that the degree of homeliness is raised in every way and that we dare to use our own raw materials. In this debate of recent days, I note the unpleasant tone that black shadows have been thrown over the sustainability criteria for renewable energy, for example: they should not be used or the sustainability of our forests would be jeopardised or something else. Or in the case of peat, for example, we have such an incomprehensible kind of hysteria created in this country that it should not be used, even though it is also a domestic raw material resource and a huge, huge energy reserve. Everyone can try this on the streets of Oslo and say to the Norwegians that you cannot use your own crude oil resources to make fuel or sell natural gas and make it a standard of living for you. That country could quickly be set off because of a ban on their activities. It is best to focus on your own work, and Finland is on this board line on a good path.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u8	Mr President! I think that this is a rather extraordinary debate in that the current government parties do not seem to take any responsibility for the decisions taken here. It is now a question of whether this proposal by the government before us is merely for fiscal purposes or whether there are some environmental elements that are highlighted here. When you read this government proposal, it is quite clear here that this one is seeking money from the state chest, but it is also admitted that this should have environmental implications. Now that we are asking why it was decided to go after these fiscal effects so quickly after the previous increases, without assessing what the situation is from the point of view of people’s purse strings, it is quite incomprehensible why we cannot take this issue as it is. For many people, these new increases in payments will lead to a very difficult economic situation, and that too must be taken into account. And as for whether or not this proposal has something to do with environmental friendliness, at the same time as it is being sought by the Ministry of Finance — about the increase in environmental guidance through this proposal — there is actually something quite different going on at the Ministry of the Environment. You know, it's not like you don't have to know what you're doing with your left hand. Although this is a matter for the various parties, it does in some way feel bad that the government specifically proposed to Parliament that energy subsidies be abolished — rather harsh for those who have, for example, an oil-heated detached house. There seems to be no measure of pity here in any way as to what kind of policy is being taken. These people can't just increase environmental control in their consumption, and there are no more incentives because they were cut off. In that respect, I must say that energy renovations in small houses should continue to be supported. I believe that this statement, which has now been made, could be supported unanimously on behalf of the entire government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u9	Madam President! Last Friday, we adopted a third amending budget here, which allowed for an increase of EUR 60 million in car tax revenue for this year. Lowering the level of car tax will produce more for the state than the lust tax that the Social Democrats and the Red-Green opposition want in this respect. This is just for the record and to refresh my memory. As far as this increase is concerned, I would remind you if it did not come to the conclusion that the price of 98 petrol is currently 30 cents lower than it was four years ago, exactly four years ago. And then the government did absolutely nothing to reduce the price, and it was also reflected in the purchasing power of people, it was reflected in the poor level of business. Now that the government has taken measures to remedy the situation, despite this small increase in fuel prices, there is a clear economic turn to growth, as the President of the Republic did in the morning, when the Finance Committee was his guest, saw and told us that it is visible that the turn has taken place. At the same time, the President of the Republic warned against indebtedness, indebtedness of municipalities, state and companies and households. The government has a responsibility to ensure that this indebtedness trend, which has been quite drastic, especially during the last parliamentary term, is broken, and there are now clear signs of this: the municipalities will no longer be in debt as they were in the last period, and the government's indebtedness will continue to slow down gradually. This is a serious issue, and that is why this increase is both fiscal and positive in terms of environmental impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u10	Madam President! As far as the government's proposal on the taxation of transport fuels is concerned, the government's line is entirely in the right direction — whether Mr Hoskonen, the opposition will be praised — because the focus on taxation must be shifted from labour and entrepreneurship to taxation of consumption, and domestic renewable energy is always domestic work, from planning to final product. As far as transport fuels are concerned, the direction is the right one. At the most, I urge the government to consider tax subsidies for diesel and light fuel oil. Could you pinch a little more to save a little more money? Those additional euros can then be used for training, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u11	Madam President! In that sense, this proposal is rather unusual when the government has promised in its programme that the overall tax rate will not rise, and this will work against it. Then this will reduce purchasing power, this will increase the plight of low incomes. There's no choice in this granny cabin with electricity or oil. He will have to pay more of these expenses in the future, and I do not think that such proposals should be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u12	Madam President! However, this increase in the taxation of liquid fuels is once again disappointing and harsh for those on low incomes. This increase in fuel taxation vaccinates most people living in rural areas who cannot switch cars for public transport in the absence of it. Congressman Kankaaniemi, I thought you would stick to this gas tax, that it would not be increased, but this did not happen. Mr Soini, when he was in the opposition, said the exact same thing: the gas pump does not ask how much is an account or a pension, it is an equal tax. But so did you betray this promise, and it is a surprise that you have attacked the less fortunate in the government. In addition to cuttings, the taxation of liquid fuels is now increased and the worker pays. So even here the government failed its final election promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u13	Madam President! It was a pleasure to hear Mr. Touko Aalto’s speech, especially the first part of it. Indeed, I am pleased that we agree with Mr Aalto on this point, which is that the focus on taxation must continue to be shifted from taxation on work and enterprise, for example, to taxation of environmental damage. This is in line with the Convention's line of work, and this line of work in this respect also seems appropriate to the Greens, and I am very pleased about that. I think that the Greens can be very pleased with the energy and climate policy strategy adopted last week by the government, because, as President Orpo said at the Saturday Council, this energy and climate strategy is so important for the environment that the presentations of the green shadow budget on solar panels are a mosquito's cry alongside the environmental friendliness of this energy and climate strategy. You know, it's okay to wonder about social democrats. You have once been a working party, but now you do not seem to be good enough for the Greens and what has been the line of the Coalition, that is to say to shift the focus from taxation on work and entrepreneurship, for example, to taxation of environmental damage. You are opposed to so-called equal taxes, which, of course, is a gas tax, but from an environmental point of view, it is precisely this type of consumption that we are trying to control through taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u14	Mr President! There it is, from the mouth of the lion himself. How interesting it is to have a group profiled here as a party of many green shades when we are talking, once and for all, about an increase in the price of liquid fuels. I must say that there have been many things heard in this Chamber, but I am trying to ask whether it has not been quite a long-term line that, when we support the changing behaviour of people in a more environmentally friendly direction, it is supported as a whole government team. Mr Zyskowicz will probably not know that during the previous minister, Vapaavuori, who was once a very successful housing minister, we had a joint project, and that was to stick to energy subsidies: let Finns be guided to ensure that the heating costs are manageable when there is a realistic opportunity to consider that this oil-fired house could also operate on some other model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u16	Madam President! It is quite right, of course, that every tax should be paid to ensure that the tax rate does not go up, but the government's line has been that tax tightening does not improve the economy of this country, that is clear. Of course, the government has to earn its income from something, or it has to take up debt, and I believe that this debt-taking route has now been completed. We have added extra expenses to the government, such as the proportion of asylum seekers who come to Finland, for example, takes about EUR 1 billion, and many other expenses. Unemployment is still a huge problem, but it has gradually begun to improve. Please note that new jobs have been created and, according to the latest studies — as a representative in this house tends to say — the atmosphere in companies has turned positive, new investments are being planned and new jobs are being created, and it will then create a new tax base for both municipalities and the state, and also for congregations. So the path is the right one, but I do not understand this, that we take a tiny drop from the revenue and expenditure of the state, and then we start to swell it up and then suddenly it feels like the whole world is going down. That's not what this is about. The direction in which Finland should export the taxation and production of fuel liquids is definitely fuel produced from its own raw materials. And you have to be brave on that road. I believe that this current line, which is, for example, planning all kinds of sanctions through the EU for renewable energies, forest products, is shameful. We must be able to use our own natural resources just as Norway uses them, or just as Germany uses coal or lignite. There's no one there who's questioning their use. If someone in Finland mentions the word peat, it will be about tomorrow morning already in the stocks in front of the church. It doesn't make any sense what we're doing. Each time we shoot ourselves in the leg and then we cry out why we're doing so badly. Mr Kiuru has come a long way in this semantics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u17	Mr President! We are, of course, accustomed in this Chamber to the fact that the government takes credit for many things, but perhaps now, at the very least, a record of the district series is being made that the government takes credit for the collapse of the world oil market price. In 2012, which was mentioned here, in March that year the price of oil was at its peak of all time, $17 per barrel, as it currently stands at $49 per barrel, or 40% of what it was four years ago. But is gas 60 percent cheaper than it was four years ago? I don't think so. The previous government had environmental objectives and should be proud of that. Just as it was stated here that the current government has them, but there seems to be a slight lack of clarity within the government as to how wholeheartedly these environmental objectives are being met. So do the Finns also have such environmental goals? Have you become tree huggers and are you fully involved in the fight against climate change? If that's the case, welcome aboard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u18	Mr President! The representatives of the SDP should be reminded that in their own alternative budget they are proposing an additional 95 million for the power plant tax, and when it comes to the environment, it is precisely the power plant tax that is a burden to increase, for example, electric cars and low-emission opportunities. That's why you shouldn't be so pious around here. I'm gonna have to read my own papers, and then I'm gonna go down there and complain about the government's performances. That is why I wanted to remind you: remember, you are proposing a power plant tax which is reflected in every consumer and when we, after the power plant tax, have to ease the burden of companies' electricity taxes, there will be a double increase for the ordinary consumer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u19	Madam President! This debate has been quite interesting, though. It now seems that environmental taxes are made into such a lever, which can then increase fuel prices anywhere. It is good to remember that Finland is a country on rubber wheels. Here, both goods and people move on rubber wheels. I might ask: what is the economic secret that does not seem to open up to me here, at least, which, with this tax evasion, would then promote the export of goods and increase trade? It would be good if this equation were brought out here. The government parties owe a pretty big explanation to our country's hauliers, who may be following this debate and wondering that 'and, again, are being taken out of our wallets, how this trade will develop here'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u20	Mr President! I would now like to remind the government, all the parties, that there is still a lot of oil in this country. Although the Ministry of the Environment stated in 2008, that this country will end oil heating by 2020, this is not happening, this has not happened. We still have more than 150,000 oil-heated houses, probably even more, namely there are no very recent statistics. In 2009, there were 190,000 oil-heated small houses, and it was 22 per cent of all small houses, you know. Yes, this policy, which the government is currently doing, applies precisely to people living in rural areas who live in urban areas that do not live in blocks of flats that have to live in detached houses. Of course, the most important thing would be that we should be able to help these people to obtain forms of heating that are not as bad as oil in terms of emissions. But the fact is this: this decision is one that takes about one fifth of single-family residents more euros every single day, every single month. On top of that, if we are considering it, we have to think a little bit about the fact that, unfortunately, when you live on land, the economies need two cars there because you work there and it is nice to carry children on land as well. It doubles its going there in the countryside. This was, among other things, one of the things that the Finns of Finland once said that this must be kept in mind and this must be pointed out because not all people live in the centre of Helsinki and not everyone has a tram next to it. On this very basis, I support the proposals for statements made earlier by Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u21	Mr President! Of course, it is always difficult if mobility is made more difficult, because now many workers have to accept work from a distance. Although it seems that many people embrace concrete, many still want to travel by car in the countryside. Hopefully there will still be a chance to return to these tax issues at some point when Finland is doing a little better. I agree that this increase in power taxes is not a very good thing — as has also been said from that opposition. Tomorrow we will hear from that EU side about how carbon sinks and, in particular, renewable energy are handled and what it will do to us if Finland pours wood. Today I met that transport Commissioner and said, in health only so private, that you should tell the Commission that we have plenty of wood. After all, we have a climate and energy strategy designed to reduce emissions and to get work for ourselves. And indeed, as long as the tree grows more than what it is cut down, it is sustainable. And I really hope that, although that proposal does not sound so good about what is coming from the EU, we can also use our wood for biofuels in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u22	Madam President! I would also like to draw my attention to the same point that Mrs Harakka drew her attention to, namely that, when the world market price for oil is so low, it would be perfectly wise to pay attention to current tax subsidies, for example, for diesel and light fuel oil. For the sake of proportionality, I would like to recall a few of these figures: the tax subsidy for diesel will be EUR 489 million net for next year, and for light fuel oil the figure will be EUR 451 million. For example, the green alternative budget does not propose any changes to home heating, as it does not involve any direct tax subsidy. However, it is precisely the fact that, in this situation, these tax subsidies are being tackled that sends the right signal to this particular tax, that it sends the right signal, precisely about the environment and the climate, that it also supports biogas and electric cars, liquefied gas, among other things, and, above all, that important thing — we talk so much about work in this country, in this Chamber: the importance of domestic renewable energy for domestic work, always from planning to final product, must be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u23	Madam President! Indeed, in the case of these unfortunate increases, we must think about the distribution of income, given that last week, among other things, we voted on this index cut for pensioners' housing, and in that sense, these vaccinations for low incomes come from many directions. However, for low incomes, housing costs are one of the biggest costs, taking away incomes, and in that sense the tax increases in heating fuels and also in transport fuels clearly contribute to the increase in people’s mobility and housing, and what remains for other consumption is being reduced all the time. It is a pity that, at this stage, as we are gradually waiting for it to emerge, hopefully, the growth in consumer confidence in the economy, the possibility of consumption is being vaccinated in this way. This seems particularly strange from the point of view of the transport industry. The government has had a strange attitude towards the Finnish transport industry and those entrepreneurs that many times could say, with a very small number of people — perhaps one car, two employees — trying to run it. I would imagine that this industry, for example, has been one in which it may have been thought that this sitting government would be the kind of government that would provide support for their livelihood, but now there have been a number of proposals which, on the contrary, act against their livelihoods. Yes, these are poison to many machine entrepreneurs in rural areas. Farmers have struggled with their own difficulties and have had difficulty getting their bills paid, and now the government is increasing the vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u24	Madam President! We're definitely not hugging trees. Our line is reflected in what will be discussed tomorrow on the energy and climate strategy. The Finns have been involved in the preparation and agree with the guidelines that are there. They are a very responsible energy and environmental policy. In this regard, it should be noted with pleasure that this is now being done by this government. The overall tax rate will not increase as a result of this increase. This has an impact of over 100 million on tax revenues, and when other measures have reduced taxation, there is no concern about it. With regard to the situation of hauliers, it was just four years ago that the transporters were in a very tight position, and then your government did absolutely nothing on behalf of these entrepreneurs. Now they have a much easier situation when prices are at the level that they currently have. The Government’s policy is to improve employment and promote business activities. That, if anyone, improves the ability of transport companies to keep their wheels rolling. This is reflected in society as a whole today. Tax revenue is increasing and employment is improving, contrary to last season: as the wheels did not rotate, unemployment grew, GDP fell and debt balances increased. Fortunately, the line has changed now, and this line is easy to defend. The government has a decision in principle that if the price of crude oil rises, as I recall, over $80, then this will be taken into consideration. Last season you did not take a look, even though the situation was much more serious than it is now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u25	Madam President! We must now remind Mr Kankaanie that, in the previous government, Mr Kyllönen and then Mr Risikko also later fought for this cabotage avoidance not to be done. But this government has had no hurry to defend the Finnish transport industry, but vice versa. When any question was asked about the Commission in that direction, the Finnish Government hastened to abolish this cabotage legislation on its own. It was not even expected that this transport package would come in at the beginning of 2018, but at the very outset it was in the vanguard to dismantle its own legislation and then to make it more difficult for transport-business entrepreneurs. In that sense, I must say that I think that this has been a strange bow in the direction of Brussels, whether or not it is because the composition of the government is that which it is. But, last season, there was indeed a fight and everyone was working on it, both in the European Parliament and in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u27	Madam President! Sounds good when there is deep concern about the Finnish transport industry and car traffic in general. It is true that it is awkward if fuel taxation is raised in such amounts as this is reported here. It affects the economy, it affects a taxi driver in Helsinki for a 100 km drive of 12 cents. I don't think a taxi from Helsinki is going to die. If you drive 100 kilometres, the value of this tax is about EUR. It's significant, of course. I'm not saying it. The euro is a big money. But if that lumberman gets another job for that day, even if he gets better employment, I think he'll be happy to pay for it. If this is due to the fact that the biofuel company is starting to use forest chips and raw materials and increases the employment situation and opportunities for transport companies, then I believe that this tax increase will not prevent his business from getting better. But it is true that when taxes are raised, it may always affect some consumption and demand. But I believe that the transport companies on the taxi side will take at least this 12-cent increase if you drive 100 kilometers on the meter. You probably believe that, at the current price level, that tax can be paid by a taxi driver.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u28	Madam President! That cabotasia. After all, it was a wonderful time, because the EU was coming up with a road law package that was expected to clarify European legislation on this cabotage issue, and yet we had to hurry on this issue. Denmark, for example, was not giving up its own national policies in the same situation. One must wonder, though, about this government line in view of these aspects. Then today's debate on the increase in taxation of electricity, real estate, heating and transport fuels and the increase in service charges: They're hitting the people who live in sparsely populated areas the most. I can say that this can be added to the list of false promises made by Finns, these increases in fuel taxes. In the run-up to the elections, Mr Soini promised a reduction of EUR 900 million in car tax, which was then reduced in this parliamentary procedure to a cosmetic discount for those who can afford to buy a new car, but at the same time this is collected as a vehicle tax for those in need of a car in rural areas, and in this case the sufferers are also low and medium incomes. In other words, you can ask this government’s line that what is the contribution of the good people to raising the Finnish economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u29	Mr President! I think it has become clear today that the True Finns have failed their promises. The promises made before the elections have been examined many times here, but in this context the Finns of Peru have said that the fuel tax will not be increased, and many have trusted you with this promise. In that regard, one can only marvel at this debate in Parliament, when it seems that the Finns of Peru are now very much in favour of this government proposal, and that is what it has shown in the Committee on Finance that you are really in favour of it. You have justified this, Mr Kankaanniemi, because we do not want to pursue the policy of transferring the bill to future generations through debt. In fact, the debt will not be repaid at all. Today, the State Audit Office notes a rather cold text on how the debt has been settled. I must say that, on these grounds, the voters are certainly not very impressed by this policy of yours.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u30	Mr President! The cabotage solution was, of course, difficult at the time, in that we did not yet know whether it was final or not, but it goes in the direction that we had to give it up. It also brought benefits to Finns, to Finnish transport companies in Europe. As far as this is concerned, we admit that we inherited so much debt from previous governments that we had to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u33	Mr President! I have just said that the State Audit Office, think now, has just warned the sitting government today that you are not taking this debt seriously, but you are debting society more and more. I regard it as a very special line that we are talking about reducing debt and doing something else at the same time. And even Finnish officials, those whose job is to follow the way things are going in Finland, warn against this. At the moment, we have a proposal in the Committee on Finance which takes this power into the hands of Parliament so that the government can no longer squirm, but always submit a report to Parliament if these conditions are to be violated. This is a very serious matter of disparaging the truth here. You received a less indebted country as an inheritance, and now the deficit that was left out of the last regime was almost halved, and this almost halve has now been destroyed because you did not even
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u34	Madam President! Indeed, the situation is that only in 2019 if everything goes as it is hoped — no one here hopes that Finland will go any worse — will we reach the level where the country was left behind by the previous government. In other words, it seems a little strange that the previous government is being accused of being in debt at a much higher rate. So 2019 we are where the country left off from the previous government. Of course, it is very much hoped that progress will be made, and certainly there is no idea here in the opposition that, when things are really bad for us, it would seem that the opposition is doing better. Not at all, this is a question of patriotism. But, yes, we must remember the level of indebtedness that is at issue at the moment in the government's direction. The Christian Democrats made a surplus alternative budget here, with at least 100 million of us trying to catch up to this reckless indebtedness of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u35	Mr President! The representative Kankaanniemi specialises in this history writing and in the fact that whatever the Finns do not do in the government, whatever the promise they made before the elections, they fail to redeem, it is always because of the previous government. Always the last government. I note, however, that when the Finns of Finland put this tax line in place, the income of less than EUR 1000 as tax-free — and quite a few voted otherwise on this basis — or that the gas tax will not be increased but the tax on the purchase of a car will be abolished, the same facts were known before the elections as after the elections. There was no new information before the election and when you entered the government negotiations. You had exactly the right information at your disposal. You made promises you didn't make — I don't know if you even tried to do it. I wish you'd at least tried.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u36	One more response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u37	Madam President! For example, when the Yle-tax was abolished from the 300,000 lowest incomes, it brought us closer to that EUR 1000 in tax-free form. We are on this road and we are going in that direction, but of course it will not happen in the moment when the situation is so difficult. We still have two and a half years. Mr President! I would remind you that we need to look at the whole issue of debt. During the last parliamentary term, the central government treasury ate EUR 7 billion, central government debt grew by EUR 20 billion and local government debt grew by EUR 7 billion. These will total 34 billion, and this was your government's balance. Now the municipalities are not deleveraging, the cashier is not eating, and the central government debt is growing less in proportion to the cost of this huge influx of immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u39	And now let us return to the list of speakers and to this very point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u40	Madam President! After all, the economy is a means of delivering prosperity to people within the limits of the earth's carrying capacity, and I therefore very much welcome all the proposals that shift the focus of taxation from work and entrepreneurship to consumption and harm.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u45	Madam President! We need to focus on positive things, otherwise we will not be able to move forward. It is positive that the government will increase the obligation to distribute biofuels. At present, biofuels account for 13.5% of fuels and by 2030 for 30%. In my opinion, the speeches by the Finns and the Democrats on the ground show the pain that is currently present in all Western countries, and it is precisely in relation to the situation of employment, the economy, the work force and the effects of the changing world, globalisation and environmental damage, and in some way we should adapt our society to the change that is taking place in the world. Positive actions will also be the target of 250,000 electric cars by 2030. I would like to see more positive progress from the debate at all, because I believe that there are issues in government action that the opposition supports, and perhaps we too could focus more on highlighting our own positive actions. Surely it is clear to everyone that not all goals can be achieved in government cooperation; it is probably pointless even to say this out loud. And this hugging of the trees while Mrs Harakka brought it up: I'm hugging trees. I recommend it to all of you. I recommend hugging everyone more at all,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u46	Madam President! Let us now leave the hugs at home, but let me say that the government programme has been made on the basis that, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, adequate austerity measures will be taken to bring public finances to a career where debt is slowing down. That is what has happened in view of the public debt, as I have just said. Then there is another important part of the Government Programme, this promotion of working life and business. Many measures have been taken and the activation of employment appropriations, for example, passive employment appropriations, is ongoing. The third large group is structural reforms, which are constantly being carried forward, and then the key projects to build the future. This is where we are talking about fuel tax. It is a small detail, important in itself, but the most important thing is that the government is now acting decisively in favour of these objectives under the Government Programme, and that is what is happening. This will give society strength, investment. Now we know: Kemijärvi, Kemi, Pietarsaari, Uusikaupunki, Turku, Äänekoski, Kuopio and so on, a huge number of big projects are leaving. It tells us that confidence has improved, which had disappeared almost completely during the last period. Now we're moving on. It will make the wheels spin and then tax revenue will come, and it will also be possible to improve the position of those who are in the most vulnerable position again. It is the most important thing for the Finns of Finland to improve the position of those who are in a difficult position to make the economy grow, and now it is about to grow, the signs are clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u47	Madam President! I quickly calculated the increase in this EUR 0.02 fuel tax, which it would mean for a normal Finnish who may be driving an average passenger car that owns about 10,000 kilometres. It knows, with an average consumption of around EUR 14, that of course it is also an extra cost, I do not deny it, but somewhere in the economy we must be, otherwise we are on thin ice and there will be comments from the Commission and from many other places on economics, as has been the case. Let us guard against the situation in which the European Union — well, the Commission has already reacted, but then there are these ratings that route our creditworthiness, and after negative messages, the interest rate starts to rise and then we stop talking in this Chamber about 2 cents of fuel increases. I refer to the recent speech by Mr Touko Aalto, Vice-President of the Greens, in which he strongly criticised this impact on the lives of people in rural areas. In his own speech, Mr Kalli raised one point: the power plant tax, which would have been disastrous for this rising economic development. It shows that it is worth talking about today. That is why I am talking about the second problem of today, which the Greens specifically raised in their alternative budget. Travel allowances would have been reduced, mileage allowances and other travel allowances, nearly EUR 200 million. Compared to that, EUR 14 per nose per year for the person who uses the car, the $200 million cut is a huge cut. We're talking piously about two cents. At the same time, 200 million people are being taken from rural areas. Yes, Madam President, in a sense of proportion, I would like to see a little bit of a scale of what a person is saying if 14 euros a year is a huge problem and at the same time 200 million is cut with bright eyes doing good. I wish for a little realism, it wouldn't be bad for the glory of this house either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u48	Madam President! I just thought that Mr Elovaara left the Chamber, but his proposal to hug all the demos made me a little jealous. For a moment I could even be a demo, just that moment, The fact that I have taken the floor is that the use of wood-based diesel in domestic transport is being increased, and I have just read VTT's press release where UPM has processed and tested the substance. It has been identified as a well-functioning form of fuel, and I would like to see more discussions of this kind in Finland. Wood-based biodiesel is being developed. It will provide employment in Finland and the much-needed jobs, in addition to which the timber drivers and other heavy traffic will get good business from it. Then they will have the ability to pay an increase in fuel tax here too, which you, as Mrs Hoskonen said, may have a slightly different euro for the average Finnish family on an annual basis, but it is not disputed, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u49	Mr President! Still a little interest in the Finnish alternative, when the alternatives here were wondered why the alternative was to raise more income for the Finns on this increase in excise duties on liquid fuels. In this regard, we are in a situation where these explanations, which we have now received, are limping, and I thought I would see what I can say about this situation Soini, because soini usually knows. After all, while in the opposition, Mr Soini made it clear that 'it does not ask how much is an account or a pension, it is an equal tax'. After this immortal statement by Soin, he has been told why, in the last spending limits debate, the situation was reached, that is to say, the increase in this gas tax. In that case, Mr Timo, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Soini admitted that this was what was said, in other words, at the time, and he blamed the increase in the gas tax on the EU: "The government wanted to collect the money with a sweet tax, but the EU said it was not possible. Klappi came here and it had to be filled." Well, now I ask, why did you not introduce these new revenues? For example, we have proposed in our own alternative proposal that you introduce, for example, taxation on investment insurance. We also have a lot of other proposals that I think should be considered. In this respect, it is also possible in today's world to look at the revenue from the tax evasion perspective at whether there are new accounts, so that we do not always have to use these things on the worst scale. That is why I think that those statements we make are genuinely constructive in that we should monitor this price development and assess how the lowest-income people manage when these payments are constantly rising, both in terms of heating and transport: whether it is sustainable, how it affects the distribution of income. On the other hand, it is equally important to consider whether environmental governance can be supported elsewhere, as in the Ministry of the Environment. It cannot be controlled by fiscal policy alone,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u50	Madam Speaker! Mr Kiuru spoke well about these alternative solutions. We all understand the need for more tax revenue in the state treasury. In that sense, too, this government has tried to think creatively, but I think they have failed. When Mr Kiuru also referred to this sweet tax, it is very timely at the moment. I wonder why the government does not go quickly to prepare for the introduction of a health-based sugar tax, because it would bring EUR 300 million to the Treasury in the next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u52	Mr President! Now that the Finns of Peru have pointed out that money has been brought to the poor, 300,000 people were removed from Yle-tax, it is true, friends. These people, from whom this tax was abolished, earn EUR 10300 a year, or EUR 858 a month. They save $70 a year, which means 5 euros a month. 83 cents. This has already been removed by cuts in national pensions and basic daily allowance and labour market support, which took EUR 9 per month and EUR 8 per month from the other group — such an approach to the consideration of poor people and such activities that people who earn less than EUR 1000 could live duty-free in this country. Yes, this is such a cold policy now. This is so cold that I wonder how you will be able to sleep when the people most affected are once again targeted. Indeed, there is no question of how much money is in your wallet when you have to get heating oil and when you have to get the gas in your car so that you can move in the countryside. No matter what kind of traffic curve and any kind of traffic curve, for example, there is no tram in our countryside. You don't jump on a bus every seven minutes. In some places, you jump every 7 days, and that's not quite reasonable. Yes, I would like a little bit of that humanity to come into the activities of this government as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u53	Madam President! In this government proposal and in this debate we are talking about excise duty on fuels and, in fact, about its increases, I would also like to raise the importance of Finnish work and Finnish entrepreneurship to this debate, as has already been raised here by some speakers, such as Mrs Hoskonen and Mrs Pakkanen. Only by improving employment will we be able to put our economy in order. When talking about transport fuels, it is important that domestic fuels based on wood are developed in Finland, for example, and that oil imported from abroad is reduced. The development of wood-based domestic fuels is also environmentally friendly and also very much employment-enhancing in Finland, the employment and entrepreneurship that is really needed today. Advanced biofuels are also an important opportunity for Finland both at home and for exports. They can also be used in passenger cars as well as in public transport. I believe that it is also the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u54	Madam President! Of course, this government proposal to increase fuel tax is a cost item that will be seen in the Finnish forest industry, among other things. It is highly transport-efficient work, and our exports also generate a lot of money. Much more is being invested there anyway. This is an additional cost, which is undermining its competitiveness in our forestry industry. Now that the government has sought to improve our labour market, our competitiveness by means of all-looking kiky agreements, it is now in the process of weakening this competitiveness to the full, which will certainly be reflected in the competitiveness and success of these motorists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u55	Madam President! I must say that there have always been enough branchers in politics, but the thickest moment I have heard was how Mr Kankaanniemi listed large projects as if they were the result of this government. I can tell you that the blame for these projects had already been given before. For example, Kemijärvi pulp mill or Kaidia in Kemi has not been set up during this parliamentary term. That is what I can say. Of course, when it comes to Kaidi, as a Nordic Finn, I hope that these new biofuels will get off to a good start. This factory is already producing a lot of jobs in the construction period and otherwise in the north, and it can be supported. But you might wonder about this increase in gas tax. I would have liked those options to have been found for this, for example, investment guarantees being raised to tax instead of raising the gas tax. And I will return to the EUR 9 million car tax bill promised by Soin, which was then reduced to EUR 200 million, which was then also collected as a vehicle tax from other rural car users. Here's this list, the list of disappointments and promises, only gets longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u56	Värderade Talman! No matter how hard I try to resist this increase in fuel taxes, I feel that I cannot do it, even if I refer to our shadow budget. But I would continue the debate that Mr Pakkanen started on these wood-based fuels. It's probably part of the solution, but it can't possibly solve the whole picture. It will not become a volume product in any way; it may be the solution of heavy traffic, as the Government's energy and climate strategy defines it. Rather than using poor efficiency to make wood fuel for low efficiency engines, it is worth investing in developing clean electricity production methods and electric motoring.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u57	Mr President! Cabotage: we were in a difficult place and how it was and how it is going, or how Mr Kankaanniemi described the situation there. I have to say that, together, the fact that we actually have cabotage means that those foreign companies, which have hardly been curbed by any tyre regulations here, will continue to benefit from this as a better competitive environment. They don't buy their fuel here at this much more expensive price. They'll come here and drive. Kankaanniemi claims that this has been particularly beneficial for Finns when travelling abroad. Finnish transport operators have paid their fees to Europe, and I do not think that a Finnish company or a transport worker can get a lot of the market in Poland, Estonia, Lithuania. Yes, the price level there is somewhat different. It is, in a way, irresponsible to talk about a competitive environment and an opportunity that does not actually exist. Wood-based fuels are a good addition, as long as we remember not to rape pine oil on top of the piston of the car, but to make it into higher-grade products, as is already the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u58	Mr President! When many of us have come here to ask what statements we have made, it is perhaps good to say at this end that, both in the committee's work and now in this Chamber, with the support of the Left Alliance and with the support of the Greens, we have put forward the following proposals, which I would like to state in just a few words. In other words, our objections, which we would like Parliament to accept: 'The Parliament requires the government to monitor the impact of tax increases on the increase in housing costs and income distribution and to take action if necessary'. In addition, a second statement is made: "The Commission requires that the energy grant be renewed and that the necessary authorisation be given for the whole of the correction funding. A well-functioning energy grant can contribute to the energy efficiency of small houses and thus housing and reduce greenhouse gas emissions." With these statements we are now seeking to guarantee that, first of all, when we have had to increase these taxes on liquid fuels, we should also focus on seeing the steering effect of these, the outcome of the distribution of income and the effects on people as a result of the increase in housing costs. It must be admitted that living in Finland is expensive, and in that respect these concerns are justified. And since our housing-related consumption expenditure and climate impacts go hand in hand in many ways, we suspect that this issue of heating a dwelling will not be resolved by tax policy alone, because people will not just abandon these oil-heated self-catering systems on the grounds that the government is taxing this heating solution more, but must also be encouraged, that is to say, these energy subsidies and continue to support this important goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u59	Mr President! Here in these speeches there has been a great deal of talk about what the list of promises has been and how everyone here has said over the years, and then we will race for who quotes where to find them. With a hand in my heart, I ask everyone: I myself have been on that electorate side for a long time and have followed this policy and I can say that almost every party has remembered something that they have had to be flexible about. The SDP now likes most to keep the Finns on the table in this matter. I myself remember when in the previous parliamentary elections, Urplainen assured me that under no circumstances will the Greek insurance policy go — well, we left, then we got those controversial guarantees from there. I mean, there are these. 100,000 new unemployed came last season, 100,000 new jobs were promised by the previous government. Things are changing all the time. We're not living in any vacuum. The Finns of Peru are with the National Coalition Party and the Centre Party in the three trio government — who can come and tell us that we can get through our program alone? If we had more than 100 representatives here, of course this would look more like the Finns. We still have the party programme in place, and I would be very happy if in 1.5 years we had got the centre and the convention completely behind our programme, we would not have to negotiate anything. I think it's really, really... Well, all I'm saying is that I add to this that when we talk about immigration, we are disdained that we are heartless. For example, under the leadership of Tuppurainen, the SDP has very much suggested that, for example, 10,000 would be our new quota per year, and Erkki Judgments has also been involved in increasing immigration. Think about what it's gonna do to our service relationship. It's gonna cost you. Then where are we gonna get the money? Do not make politics elsewhere on the one hand and on the other. This is the whole economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u60	And on this subject of excise duties next, Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u61	Madam President! There is every now and then every once in a while reason to bring the subject under discussion to the minds of the representatives. — In this respect, it can be said that the proposals made by the demarches raised by Mrs Kiuru are such that they highlight these very effects on income, both in terms of the increase in housing costs and also in terms of heating and transport fuels, and are certainly of the kind that Christian Democrats support them as well. All in all, it must be said that it is a great pity that, at this turning point in the economy, hopefully, the citizens' ability to consume and increase consumer demand is then being vaccinated. On the other hand, of course, it must be wondered that when, for example, as defenders of the transport industry very strongly, the Finns have wanted to be profiled here, then they have agreed to this type of policy in the government, and these cabotage issues in particular have been those that have been very disappointing. As Mr Ojala-Niemelä, for example, pointed out earlier in this Chamber, it would have been appropriate to wait until the Commission was set up before it was rushed to make those changes. Last season the Finnish line was well defended: there the then Minister Kyllönen as well as later Risikko in that composition sought to take care of this matter. But then tomorrow we will be able to vote on these statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u62	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u63	Madam President! This proposal amends the Health Insurance Act in such a way that "in order to promote equal treatment and employment for women, it is proposed that the costs of parental leave for employers be offset by a lump sum of EUR 2500" and that the aid be paid to employers. In the thinking of the Christian Democrats, this is exactly the direction we need to go to see these clear things that could increase this right equality. That is what we welcome — and we are in favour of increasing the independence of families when it comes to child care. However, it has to be said that this overall reform of family leave, which is proposed here in the statements, is very much to be welcomed. We will certainly continue to give it our support so that there is more room and more opportunities for growth, care and, above all, planning it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u64	Madam President! The Government proposes to compensate employers for the costs of family leave for women and men by paying a lump sum of EUR 2500 to employers of female workers who pay wages for at least one month during the maternity allowance period and working time must be at least 80% of the total working time of the employee in the sector. The aim is to promote the employment and equal treatment of women of childbearing age in the labour market while at the same time improving the employment and growth of women-dominated enterprises. The Government’s objectives are acceptable in many ways, but the proposed means are not the best. This was made clear, among other things, in the expert consultation. The experts noted, among other things, that family leave does not accumulate particularly in small women-dominated companies, that costs are not the main cause of the problems for organisations, rather, the problem is the absence of key persons, the finding of replacements, the reorganisation of work and the training of substitutes — costs are not, in their opinion, the top priority for these small companies. The fact that organisations and these small companies do not apply for these compensations is also very descriptive. In addition, it was noted that this legislative proposal does not apply to part-time workers and, inter alia, freelancers. That is why this legislative proposal does not in all ways achieve the objective that has been sought here. The labour market position of women can be improved and care responsibilities between parents can be shared more evenly, primarily through the development of a family leave system. In their current form, family leave does not meet the needs of working life and families and does not sufficiently support the participation of fathers in parenting. Family leave should therefore be made more flexible in order to improve family welfare and employment. Among other things, it has been suggested that the responsibility of fathers to care for children should be supported, inter alia, by extending the payment period for earnings-related parental allowance. This would support Daddy's stay at home. The quota period for fathers should be longer. This is where we could take the example of Sweden, i.e. extending the payment period and extending it until school years. Home care support could also be developed in this context. In addition to this, the flexible care allowance introduced during the last government term needs to be further developed. Madam President! The unfortunate fact is that the government has also undermined the right of children to equal access to early childhood education. Early childhood education has undeniable positive effects on the future development of children. Early childhood education should therefore be seen more strongly as a right of the child rather than as part of the working life of the parents. Mr President! We have objected to the proposal for a statement specifically relating to the overall reform of family leave. I will read this proposal for a statement: "The Commission requires the government to start preparing a comprehensive reform of family leave, which will give families greater flexibility in the organisation of care, improve the welfare of families and strengthen the labour market position of women." Mr President! I will make this statement together with the Left Alliance and the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u65	Mr President! The experts themselves, at least some of them, thanked this proposal for taking the first cautious step in the right direction, but I must say that most of the experts believe that the most effective way to improve the equality of working life would be to extend the parental leave earmarked for fathers, and that is definitely the direction that the Greens are in favour of. I absolutely support the fact that the government should start preparing for the reform of the family leave as soon as possible, because today, as is well known here, family leave accumulates for more than 90% of mothers and this has hardly progressed in the direction of equality in recent years. In addition, I think that this one-off payment model proposed by the government is a problematic idea that it strengthens, as it were, the old-fashioned concept of the family, the idea that care is the responsibility of mothers when this one-off payment is directed at mothers' employers. In addition, it would have been desirable that this lump sum be linked to the condition that the mother should be able to return to the job from which she is on parental leave when the mother’s employer receives this money. This model does not in any way, as it were, reduce temporary work, shredding work for mothers, nor does it improve the quality of working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u66	Madam President! This proposal, just as Mr Laukkanen said earlier, is indeed a step in the right direction, and the Christian Democrats want to support it. Certainly it is not perfect, and I know that it has had its own difficulties in preparing it, but it is based on the fact that today women-dominated sectors are paying far more for these costs of motherhood. The real reason behind it, however, is that the pay gap between women and men is a fact. In that sense, when you think about who is going to be on parental leave at home, quite a lot of it will then limit the freedom of choice when you know that there will then many times the man will have that higher salary, and in that sense when it comes to the family’s livelihood it will be easier for her to stay at home. But there are also studies that, despite the fact that, for example, these pay differences are quite small, it is often the mother who wants to stay at home. Yes, there is also the background to the fact that it is considered that during that baby phase, especially because of breast-feeding, for example, it is intended to strengthen the relationship between mother and child, and it also starts with this type of policy. Of course, you might also think that why do you end up with such a different pay gap? Then perhaps we will be coming to the very heart of education and the fact that we have a highly differentiated labour market in Finland, in other words, we still have the so-called 'girls' and 'boys' sectors. But the Christian Democrats attach great importance to ensuring that this freedom of choice within the family is not interfered with by different quota models. In that sense, we see that this government proposal is good in such a way that it really does intervene in this important matter, that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u67	Mr President! These government objectives are quite welcome, but after an expert consultation, it must be said that this is not the best way to go. This current family leave model has been developed by drop in different decades and no longer corresponds to the current, changed working life. The current model is old-fashioned and does not meet its objectives of promoting children's well-being and gender equality. The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group has submitted a legislative initiative on the 6+6+6 model by Mr Li Andersson, which would clearly extend the current parental leave period and also distribute parental leave more evenly among parents. This is not a question of compulsory quota; this model would actually extend the current period of parental leave from 9 to 10 months over the year, and then the parents could still share or miss the last 6 months if they decided to do so. In any case, the current parental leave models do indeed need an overall reform, and I believe that the preparatory work could be started parliamentaryly already during this period, because it goes without saying that this is a very major reform which will certainly require long preparation. The best thing would be for such a major reform to be carried out in parliamentary terms, so that it can also be exported over the parliamentary term. Mr President! I support Mr Kiljunen's motion for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u68	Madam President! I would be in favour of the idea that this issue should be prepared parliamentaryly, but still has not opened up to me how the quota model 6+6+6 works, for example, in a small business, where the company employs 20 people, for example, and where the man is the CEO. How does this 6+6+6 model work in that family? Could you please go to the kitchen table of that family and open this up and decide that the man will also stay at home with this model?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u69	Mr President! It has to be said to Mr Östman that this 6+6+6 model does not force anyone to stay at home, but specifically gives the family the freedom of choice and option. This would only divide the current nine-month parental leave period into three six-month parental leave periods, from which families can choose how to use these periods themselves, for example, whether a mother spends one year in a family, and that one six-month period can be left unused if this is decided. However, even in this model, the parental leave period would be extended from the current 9 months to 12 months, which would, for example, be a highly recommended option for full-time work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u70	Madam Chairman! Here's the answer. Yeah, you don't have to use it, but that means different families are put in a different position, which means that it won't serve these families equally, for example, the entrepreneurship families that I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u72	Mr President! I have to say that the current model is not equal either: it has a wide range of shortcomings from the perspective of diverse families. Yes, the central question for the legislator is what model, what structure we support with the tax resources of society. Of course, families can do whatever they want, but the question is what is paid with the taxpayer's money. Yes, taxpayers' money must be used to finance a model that best helps families make choices, which in turn will strengthen equality. In other words, we cannot assume that we are primarily supporting a model that guides us in a way that is not equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u73	There were a number of respondents just now. Was there any more? If there's a need now, I'll ask you to report to me so I can get up here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u74	Värderade talman, Madam President! In this regard, Mr Östman mentioned that families are unequal if, for example, the father is a self-employed person. However, I would like to point out that the same way a mother can be the self-employed person, so the situation is the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u75	Mr President! Congressman Rehn-Kivi just said what I was about to say. So if you think it's the father who's the CEO and it gets you into trouble, then our current model becomes a problem if that CEO is the mother. And surely there is no model that perfectly meets the needs of all families. But the more flexibility we have, the more equal the labour market we have, the better those models will respond to people's needs, and the better the money will be. That is why the reform of family leave is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u76	Madam President! I, too, regret the idea that the introduction of the so-called 6+6+6 model would somehow be contrary to equality, because with the same logic, all activities in which families do not function according to one galloon and one fashion would be somehow unequal. That's not how it works. The question is that we need to create a system that is as agile and flexible as possible in different situations, while at the same time ensuring that the responsibility for childcare in society is more evenly distributed because it is in the interests of everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u77	Mr President! It is important for Finns to have a choice of family. I think it is extremely important, regardless of the length of the matter, that the family itself decides whether one parent, if he is a single parent, or whether it is another parent. People have to have a choice. At least I can't go to anybody's family and screw around. I met a very large number of people in the electoral fields who hoped that if you leave these situations, do not earmark anything to a particular sex. People want to decide. We always imagine here that we know for families what is best for them, but we certainly do not always know that. That is how much I say about this bill that it also compensates for the absences of the employer from the mother's pregnancy. We will never be able to do that, at least with this modern science very easily, that the father can then assume that responsibility. She might have to go away because she's pregnant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u78	Mr President! Mr Östman’s concern about the CEO’s father is certainly genuine, but yes it is a bit conservative in the view that the CEO would always be the father. For example, 70% of care entrepreneurs are women, women entrepreneurs, and I believe that this government has specifically wanted to increase entrepreneurship in the care sector, so there will be more of these mother and executive directors and somehow this issue will have to be resolved. And the model cannot be to continue as before, because what this produces is an inequality. It is an inequality that is reflected, above all, in the pay gap between women and men, which remains unacceptable at 17% in 2016. Women only earn a fraction of what men do, so something needs to be done, and comprehensive family reform is what we Social Democrats are after. The model proposed by the SAK is a good basis for the preparation we encourage the government to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u79	Madam President! Mr Tuppurainen well said that this is basically what I said earlier in my speech about the pay gap. After all, at the labour market tables, they should be set up and left at the kitchen table with these decisions to consider who will stay at home to care for the children. The problem with these quota models is that once the quota period has been exhausted and then the quota period for free choice has been exhausted, then it is no longer possible to use it as if it were a quota period for one spouse, because it is actually quotad for another, and in that sense this is a restrictive model. And if you look at this model of ours at the moment, then parental leave will be followed by this support for home care, which I consider to be extremely important. I cannot understand why the parties on the left of the opposition and the Greens want it to go down. But it is really important for many families and then for those in their home
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u80	And one more response, Mr Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u81	Mr President! I am surprised at this debate here that if we had a 6+6+6, it would be somehow restrictive or binding. In this particular model, the family leave will in any case be extended from 9 months to 12 months, even if one piece is left unused. And as far as these quotas are concerned, unfortunately, voluntary action does not encourage fathers to stay home to care for children at the moment, which is very regrettable. That would already be reflected in the statistics if fathers stayed and used these parental leave allowances. According to research, only a family leave structure with its own clear blocks for fathers encourages fathers to stay home, and then fathers also use them, and that is the model I want to support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u82	Madam President! I am a little surprised by the desire of certain parties and, in particular, the left-wing parties, to take the decisions within the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u87	Madam President! We must now marvel at Mr Hoskosen's logic, when you want to do exactly what society wants to do to guide families into this current system, you say that this current system must not be changed, you want mothers to stay at home as long as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u90	Madam President! Now we have to remember that even in this modern model, it is not against the law that the father can be at home. In other words, it is precisely the choice that this current model makes possible, which means that the mother has a certain quota and then it is possible to choose which parent will be on parental leave. Then home care allowance is available, so that another person can take care of the child as long as the child’s care is at home, away from the municipal day care system. In that sense, this current system, which is to be financed not only by the public authorities themselves but also by the employer, has made it possible for us to have the child at home even until the age of three. In that sense, this model, which starts with 6+6+6, means that if the home care allowance is then scrapped with it, as I understand it, it will limit the possibility of having a child at home — I understand that home care support is no longer part of this model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u91	Madam President! I thought I would not be taking part in this debate, but I have to say a few more words. Firstly, we are proposing a comprehensive reform of the family leave system, which also includes the parental leave system. It is clear that parents themselves and the family themselves decide on this parental leave period, in view of what is most important for them financially and for the child and for other things, they make decisions about it. But I think it is absolutely essential that we also look ahead. For example, this Swedish model is a very good model in which this period of care for fathers has been extended and the payment period for earnings-related parental allowance has been extended and it has also been possible to pay it periodically, even until the child goes to school. That is how we support the family's overall well-being. This is not just a question of parental leave; it is about a broader group that tackles the well-being and equality of the family and children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u92	Värderade Talman! At the moment we have maternity allowance, we have parental allowance, we have paternity allowance. Doesn't that sound like a little compartmentalized system to you? With this we would have 6+6 +6, and they could be distributed quite freely, but if you want to — as in many social support or in many things — the whole cake, you have to share it. If you don't want the whole cake, you settle for the 12. I think it makes perfect sense. I believe Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto raised the issue of Sweden. If you compare our labour market, the Swedish and Finnish labour markets, there is a great difference in the employment rate of women aged between 30 and 40. With our financial support, we will drive them out of work, we will weaken their professional career, and it will also mean that the female euro is still 83 cents. This is also a question of competitiveness. If we support a system in which we do not have all the resources available, then we will never be a competitive country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u94	Mr President! In this government's proposal to change the health insurance law, there is good will behind it, but good will does not always go far if you do not go to the root of the problems, and that is what this proposal is all about and what I am talking about. But I want a moment to cheer for this goodwill, namely that the government genuinely wants to improve the position of women in the labour market by balancing the costs of parenting. At the moment, the responsibility for care remains largely on the shoulders of mothers and leads to women in the labour market being, as it were, priced at the risk of pregnancy, the possibility of women becoming pregnant and being left on family leave. This means that young women, in particular, work significantly more than their male counterparts in temporary jobs, in different atypical jobs, and it also affects the 17% pay gap between women and men, i.e. the average wage for men is currently EUR 3600, where the average wage for women is only EUR 3000. It is clear that something must be done about this. The cost of family leave requires compensation. This problem is burning. Well, the government's idea of paying the mother's employer 2500 euros as a lump sum is a good start, but it is completely inadequate. It is inadequate in the sense that, firstly, it does not take part-time workers into account, nor does it take into account self-employed workers, for example. In addition to that, the problem is that when it is paid to the mother’s employer, I think that it is precisely here that this gender - oriented division of family leave costs that the mother’s employer will receive for ever and ever. Instead, Mr President, we should do as Mrs Kiljunen said earlier: we should do an ambitious, comprehensive reform of the family leave system, which would compensate for these costs, which would compensate for the responsibility for care in the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u95	Mr President! This debate has shown little of the attitude of mother care and father making money, and I think that is the whole point of this problem. As long as we think that the responsibility for care is mainly on the mother's side, so long we have a problem with women's employment, women's pay, women's pensions and the entire working life of women. That's why we have to try to get to those reasons. It is a question of us being able to have a more evenly divided labour market, and it already starts from education and, in fact, from day care and early childhood education and from role models. If we think that women are focusing on certain services and on the public side and men are, as it were, more on technology, industry and the open market, it will lead to this division, and then we will have an uneven distribution of costs. I respect the fact that the government has tried to find a solution to this problem and to seek a compensation model specifically for women-dominated jobs, because there the cost per person is higher. But, as a whole, often male-dominated systems pay more for this because it collects the fund contribution which then compensates for these women-dominated sectors. I don't think we should forget this. But when simple solutions are sought for complex problems, they are lost. Either the problem won't be helped or we're wasting money. In fact, it is thought that some 30,000 companies would benefit from this compensation, and it would cost more than EUR 70 million, which means we spend quite a lot of money on this model. But the problem is that the EUR 2500 does not compensate all employers because it depends on the mother’s salary, it depends on the illness of the child, it depends on the absences related to pregnancy that come before the mother is on maternity leave. Mr President! But when it comes to eartags, remember that in our present system there is an eartag. It is aimed at the mother at the beginning of the maternity period, and there are grounds for it. There are biological grounds for this and it is justified. Similarly, we can think that we have a basis for earmarking something to the father, because this current system of ours leads to mothers caring more, and then we need to think about the tools to involve fathers in child care responsibility and help this whole thing. Mothers have, as it were, a preoccupation in the care of children because of this biology, and it is also justified to make father quotas because they better involve fathers in that care. We see that in this discussion it is said that when the mother’s salary is lower, that is why mothers stay home to care for the children. But mothers’ wages are lower because they stay home to care for the children. And if we are unable to solve this problem, then we will have no use, in a way, to tinker with certain compensations. If you still wonder what the problem of this lump sum is, it overcompensates those employers whose employees have low wages and, for example, the mother does not return to work but leaves the job after her maternity leave and parental leave or maternity leave. It sub-compensates those employers who pay more to their mother. In that sense, too, it would be more sensible to develop other types of compensation models. In the current system, for example, about 70% of direct costs for employers will be reimbursed and 10% of the salary paid to employers during maternity leave, which is not covered by the employer’s daily allowance from Kela. But during the treatment of a sick child, there will be no compensation. We would have a fairer model if we were to expand this current system in such a way that it would replace it more fully and compensate for these costs more widely. I dare say it would be more cost-effective. In addition, I believe that this lump sum poses a major employment policy problem: the fact that the mother does not have to go back to work. So this in no way supports the employment of mothers. We know that there are major problems in our current system, for example with regard to home care support. When a small piece of home care support is used, the problem does not yet arise, but if more children are born into a family in a row and the mother takes care of all these children with full home care support, the majority of the studies, in fact all, show that it weakens the labour market position of mothers. In that sense, we must have the political will to steer the social support system in such a way that it contributes to women's careers rather than weakens them, and that is why we must think about this whole thing. In fact, in consultation with experts from the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, the majority of experts are critical of this mechanism. It is not about trying to respond to this problem, but about how to do so. And perhaps a little in relation to this economy is the fact that this same money could add 21 more fathers' days. However, I am not suggesting that this is the solution, because it too simple. We must look for these more evenly distributed family models.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u96	Värderade Talman! First of all, I should like to thank Mr Filatov for his excellent speech. After all, this is a good thing in principle, since no one can object to a lump sum of EUR 2500 being paid to the mother's employer. But is this structurally reasonable? I don't think anyone thinks so, like, really grown-up. This is a Band-Aid to fix a particular problem, but this does not take us forward in any way. This is a rigid system that is betonating the existing structures, just as Mr Tuppurainen said there. In other words, if we want to do something about this in the long term, then it is precisely family leave that needs to be reformed, the role of parenting must be evened out. And that means some kind of quota system, because if the roles of parents are more evenly distributed, then the position of women in the labour market will improve, their pay development will improve, their career development will improve. If the roles of parents are more even, then home care support is probably distributed more evenly, the father is more often at home when the child is ill, thus improving the position of women - dominated entrepreneurs. It has also been studied that men’s position in divorces will improve if they have taken parental leave more evenly. It is considered to be an advantage for some reason, this has been investigated by an indisputable fact. So I hope this is just an intermission, this Band-Aid. Hopefully, the government is now moving in the direction of parental reform, and there are many models. It is this 6+6+6, which is also found in our shadow budget, where you will find all the necessary numbers to support the government, but it is also a SAK model, which I think is quite good and cost-neutral. That the government is free to choose.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u97	Madam President! Mr Adlercreutz's speech should be continued. It's a Band-Aid now. As such, perhaps in many respects a harmless patch, but still a patch. We would need an overall reform, and in this overall reform we should look at the situation of families and working life much more broadly than has been done with this lump sum. Above all, this will probably not change the reality in Finnish families and working life very much. There has been a lot of talk here about the 6+6+6 model, and I think a strange convection is how this model is translated into a kind of anti-equality model in the mouth of its opponents. As a father and as a politician, I cannot understand how a model in which fathers would have a better chance of actually being at home with children would in some way be contrary to equality. It just doesn't sink into me. Above all, I would like to say that we are now talking about equality in care, but also in working life, and we need gender impact assessments on these issues. A good example of the need for gender impact assessment is, for example, a competitiveness pact which affects women's working life far more than is likely to be the case here with regard to this compensation. And I would also say that, for example, equality policy pays great attention to the fact that men can have a weak position on a number of issues, such as divorce or custody issues. We can answer such questions by designing family leave models, designing models for working life and family reconciliation, and planning models for meeting such challenging situations together on an equal footing. The world isn't one fashion. I hope that our support system will not encourage people to do so either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u98	Madam President! I believe that the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the amendment of the Health Insurance Act has given rise to the debate that I came here to say just a few thoughts. I am no expert in the work of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but I have been a family member and this society for many years as a family member and, of course, as the head of the municipality and also as a representative of the parliament. I wonder the tone of this debate. In the labour market tables, this sharing of parenting costs has been under discussion for decades. We have moved forward on many issues, parental money and other interests exist, but then, when we start sharing these costs, why have these not been agreed at the labour market tables? Please tell me — there are left-wing representatives here today who are sovereignly controlling the trade union movement — why this issue has not been agreed. Decades of this have been twisted, and what I remember is that even in this Chamber or in that great House of Parliament, there has always been talk of the actual house as being directly concerned about the need to make equal pay, to reduce the pay gap, to make a fair family policy. You've had this ball in your desks, haven't you? Now you here are horrifying to the government, which receives an appropriation of EUR 2500 for every employer for the mother's maternity leave and care for her small child at home. And if anyone still claims that there is research in this country, who is the best nurse of that little born child during the first year of life, it is certainly — nature has taught us it for hundreds of thousands of years — mother, surely. Then add to this the cold fact that when a parent takes care of that little child, they will surely have their whole heart truly want the best of that little child and will also be able to decide who will take the vacation, parental leave, whether its mother will keep it or its father will keep it. For example, if a mother is breast - feeding even until 9 months, the mother is likely to be there at home. Dad doesn't really have a decent chance. So this is not a question of equality, it is a law of nature, there is nothing we can do about it. It has created us this way by the Creator, and that is what we are. But then there is an attempt here to force this system into something other than what the parents want. Yes, I am greatly surprised at your left-wing thinking. You've had the game under control on this one, the ball under control for decades. For decades, this has been taken away, and I have been waiting for this problem of parental leave to be resolved in a labour market solution, but has it been resolved? No, it's not. And now that a lump sum of EUR 2500 is paid to the employer, this is going to be a huge problem for you, which seems to me that the world is going to crack and fall into the corner and go to waste anyway. For God's sake, I was about to fall off the bench when I listened to these speeches. It is only so, ladies and gentlemen — be it the most recent studies in the world, to which Mr Ville Niinistö always says according to his custom, 'according to the latest studies' — I dare say that whatever these studies may be, the father and mother are the best carers for that little child and the mother during the first year of life are absolutely certain, and let the family decide what is best for their child. Then the best result will be achieved for the start of that small person’s life. Then, if someone pleads that later, in a divorce situation, perhaps a better model will be achieved, then it is as far-fetched as the South Pole from the North Pole that it is the basis for a possible family divorce when it is used as a basis for a decision on this matter. I'm very surprised that there are labour market politicians here. Let us see what explanation I can get for this problem, but do you not have the same conscience in this matter that you acknowledge that this business has gone to the stones of you? And now that the government will fix it, this will not happen to you. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u99	Mr President! I don't think there's a single labour market politician in this room, not even the old ones, so it's kind of pointless to blame them for the results. But so much of that mechanism I feel that we do not have such a family leave system, that we do not have parental leave, that we do not have flexible care allowance without those labour market tables. They were born there. It also covers the costs of these costs in cooperation with employers and employees. The problem is that this more than EUR 70 million has never gone down employers' throats. If this had been negotiated at the labour market table, I think that the model would be different if there had been a similar amount of money in use. But here the government is once again making a compulsory decision, which, as it were, puts this 70 million at the expense of employers, and at the same time, in some other cases, it is fiercely opposed to an increase in employers' costs. Last season, flexible care allowance was made and paternity leave was extended, and both helped with this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u100	Madam President! There is really nothing going down the employers' throat, but employers think responsibly about Finnish employees, absolutely. For every Finnish employer, a good employee is a treasure. It's his most valuable and most important asset in that company. If Mr Filatov says otherwise, let him speak of his own — I will not take a position on it. For each employer, every employee is a valuable resource. This should be remembered today as well as tomorrow. Madam President! To conclude, for my part: This has now been improved. Think of a small employer who has three or four employees, who, for example, are all women. It is only natural that one day, when a family is born, young women stay on maternity leave with a baby. For such an employer it is good that such a system has been put in place. Why, then, is this being opposed? It just doesn't fit into my senses. I hope someone tells me that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u101	As has been said, this proposal seeks mainly to offset the burden of payment between employers in male and female-dominated sectors. That in itself is a good goal, too, and we have not opposed it. We have only pointed out, as has been said on many occasions, that the labour market position of women can be improved and care responsibilities between parents can be shared more evenly, primarily through the development of a family leave system. Fortunately, this idea seems to be shared by the majority. After all, in their present form, family leave does not meet the needs of changed working lives or diverse families, nor does it sufficiently support the participation of fathers in parenting. Family leave should therefore be made more flexible in order to improve family welfare and employment. An extension of the payment period for parental allowance could be one option. Longer parental leave would attract more fathers to stay at home, and the share of earnings-related leave for fathers should be longer than at present, as well as the share of free distribution between parents. After all, earnings-related benefits can only be obtained until the child is two years old, but this payment period could be extended and amortised, for example, until school years, as has been done in Sweden. It has also been considered necessary to have parents at home at the same time as the baby. Today this is only possible for 18 days, but this time could be extended. However, since the family leave system forms a whole, it would also be necessary to look at the role of home care support in the context of the reform, as it should also be seen as part of the overall reform. The flexible care allowance introduced during the last government term would also need to be developed in order to make it more flexible to return to work and to avoid too long day-care days for young children. It is also worth reminding here that the proportion of Finnish children participating in early childhood education is low compared to other Nordic countries: only one in two under 2 years of age participates in early childhood education. And yet it has undeniable positive effects on the child’s future development. But above all, we hope that the government will seize these ideas and undertake a reform of the family leave system. I'm sure we'll all be there for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u102	Madam President! Once the current system has been imposed here, it is good to remember that, in fact, the parental allowance period is such that it has not been quotad today. It may as well be kept either by the father or by the mother, when, as I remember, Mrs Parviainen said something else. Then you must remember that the home care allowance, which is part of it, makes it possible for a child to stay at home until he or she is three years old. For example, in many municipalities there is a municipal home care allowance that still supports the family, and this is extremely important. In this situation, the person caring for the child at home may be, for example, a grandmother or another close relative if the parents are unable to do so. If you think that we should leave here for the benefit of children, for the child to have access to home care, in the sense of these 6+6+6 and many other models, I have understood that these will always scrap this home care support, which is what they want out of it. That is also why these, apart from their intervention in this family’s own freedom of choice, still mean that this important home care support will have to be taken away. Representative Eloranta well raised this point so that there could also be support for being at home at the same time as the mother. Consider, for example, the end of pregnancy. If there were other children at home, this would certainly make sense. This flexibility for these current systems could be considered. Then, of course, Parliament's women's network has raised the issue of statistics on absences during pregnancy. Today we do not really know which of these are, after all, pregnancy-related and what are other absences. This would certainly contribute to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u103	Mr President! Now that Mr Essayah mentioned the support for home care in this regard, I personally welcome the recent opening of the SAK to reform the entire family leave system as a whole, so that home care support would also be included in it in such a way as to look at the whole package of parental leave and home care support in the way that they jointly support equality in families in the best possible way. And what I also find terribly good in the SAK model is that it would also take into account the different families, their existence. Which means there could be more in the family than just Mom and Dad. It may also be that a grandparent or other loved one may be involved in the care and upbringing of a child when the child is young. Similarly, it is important to consider parents caring for a child alone, as well as diverse families.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u104	Madam President! This government proposal is only a small piece, a small compensation for the cost of parenting for the employer, but it seems that this Chamber has gone into this debate on the parental leave system, as in fact, to a large extent in committee, even though it was only a small attempt at compensation for employers. Personally, I believe that why should the costs of parenting and paternity and maternity leave be borne by the employer of anyone, that is, the mother or father. I think that we should really look further forward that it is a state that will compensate both the mother's employer and the father's employer for these costs. On the whole, maternity and paternity are so valuable and unique that it must be supported in every way. I personally think it is important, after childbirth, that the mother is with the child, if possible, at least three, preferably at least six months, perhaps for that year, but with these flexibilitys that, for example, the father could be with the mother at the same time as before and after the birth, taking into account the family situation and possibly these possibilities of leave at a later stage, there is certainly room for improvement. I agree with that. The importance of fathers must be raised and strengthened in this society, but it seems that the recent debate has been in a different direction. But if you think about it, it is the financial situation of the family and the situation of the job, which largely determine who stays at home with the child. I thought that jobs should be given more recognition of paternity and maternity and parental leave, with a great deal of added value to the cv in terms of periods of paternity, maternity and parental leave, and I hope that in the future they will also be paid more than many other experiences. Young fathers today stay much more home with children, and I would say that an advertising campaign in which successful male athletes or businessmen and statesmen tell about the time spent at home with children would be very good and would encourage
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u105	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen spoke with emotion, and he wondered why nothing had happened before and why there is now a greater amazement about this proposal. As Mrs Filatov said, quite a lot has happened over the years, but of course such issues are progressing gradually. The fact that Mr Hoskonen will then say that the government will fix the toilet seems to me to be a little over-compensated, but we are talking about this compensation of a couple of thousand euros for women's employers. Parenthood is a sensitive subject and, of course, in this Chamber we must avoid dictating a single right way to be a parent, and certainly no one on the various sides of the political map has wanted and intended to do this. However, we have disagreements about what kind of family leave model in general would be the most practical. Personally, I still believe that the so-called 6+6+6 model would not be a lack of family autonomy, but, on the contrary, would encourage and steer a wide-ranging social change that we have called for in many other contexts. That change is equality in working life and equality in care responsibilities. At present it is not sufficiently implemented despite the fact that there are different situations in families individually, and such a model would not mean that, for example, a mother could not enjoy her parental leave and being at home with the child as necessary. Of course not. No one's practically taking anything away. The intention would be to make more better. The representative, Mr Tanus, was very grateful for the fact that the responsibility for care in general should be appreciated in society. As the father of a 1-year-old child and a 3-year-old child who cares for his children too little, thanks to parliamentary work, I can very well identify. I hope that, for our part, this culture of discussion will also help to create a society in which care is also valued.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u106	Madam President! I would also like to say to Mrs Hoskonen: neither we, the Social Democrats, nor the Greens nor the Left Alliance, although we have protested, oppose the sum of EUR 2500 for the cost of family leave for women's employers. We are not opposed to this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u109	Mr President! I would like to say to Mrs Hoskonen that in my own speech I raised the point that this EUR 2500 lump sum for mothers' employers is a small step in the right direction. But if you look at the big picture, those structures that cause inequality in working life should be done in such a way that the entire family leave system is reformed and that this allowance for home care, as well as parental leave, is included and a structure is created that treats different families as equally as possible and enables mothers to participate in working life in the same way as fathers do. This will certainly not happen without changing these structures. We have encouraging examples from Sweden, for example, where changes in structures have been able to compensate for parental leave between fathers and mothers, while at the same time increasing the employment rate of mothers and increasing GDP. Yes, this would also be a sensible direction for the economy of society, when, however, we need to consider all possible ways of raising the employment rate in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u110	Madam President! As the committee's report quite rightly states, the proposal has resulted in a compensation of EUR 2500 to compensate the worker for his or her sick leave during his or her pregnancy, for his maternity leave and for the cost of his or her child's child's leave of pay to the employer. So this is one sum, this 2,500. It is not, of course, based on any very precise, in-depth social research, but it is a step in the right direction, it is said here. Another thing when we have even appealed to the Swedish models or to what models: This is not about models, it is about the age-old problem of the cost of parental leave to the employer. That's what this is all about, isn't it? The employer will receive the compensation of EUR 2500, well done. What Mr Tanus has just mentioned is, of course, an ideal model for creating a situation in Finland, for society to pay the full cost of parenthood when a child is born into this world, during the period of maternity leave and during the period of parental leave in which employers would have an equal position with each other. That is the ideal situation that should be pursued, but it seems that it has not been possible to do it now, even though the social partners have done a great deal of good work in this area. But now that we finally and finally acknowledge that we have an unfair distribution of the costs of parental leave, precisely between the various employers, and now we have started to even this out, it is already being buried in some model debate. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. We're on the right track. I don't know if it's a dangerous way for someone, but once the right decisions have been made, I don't feel like this is going to happen either. It reminds me of Mikko Kivinen's song, "It's not okay, it's not okay, it's not okay." I don't know what I'm supposed to do right now, but you could listen to that song on YouTube tonight if that's all you can think of.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u111	Madam President! Of course, it is a good idea to discuss this model in the sense that we certainly need to consider how best to compensate for the various costs of parental leave. Here this idea has been thrown into the air that the government pays. Isn't that the famous election clause, "taxes to be paid by the state"? So, of course, it is the case that the money is always taken by the state from somewhere, and it will then, through taxation, be collected from us each of these costs as well. In that sense, it is all right to look at, for example, this Swedish insurance-based model, which therefore assumes that all employers are involved there. If we look at this model of Finland, which includes employers, and it is the employers whose employees use these parental leave, and then the employees who take part in it themselves in their own contributions, and then society for its part also reimburses these expenses. Indeed, this model of ours is based on this type of tripartiteism in this sense, could it be said? Last week, when this issue was discussed at first reading, I think I would say that in many Eastern European countries, for example, this Nordic model — the fact that it allows it to be longer at home — is seen as the ideal that is being pursued. When this directive on the protection of pregnancy was introduced in the European Union, it then fell into the pit, could you say, that many people there thought that we wanted this model but then all the expenses paid by the employer, and left this 20-week minimum parental leave with full pay, which is fully paid by the employers. It was quite clear that a worse employment trap for a young woman could hardly have been developed, and it then fell to the Council. In that sense, the Nordic model is good. It is good to think about how to develop the funding and other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u112	Madam President! I would like to return to the previous speech by Mrs Essayah, in which you raised the issue of municipal allowances for home care and home care allowance and their importance in the municipalities and in people's everyday lives. After all, many municipalities have now had to give up these municipalities as part of the municipal savings, and getting or not getting municipalities is also a kind of competitive advantage when it comes to migration between municipalities, such as the central city and the spending limits. The problem in these municipalities, coupled with home care support, is that they have been found to form incentive traps, and these incentives traps are once again helping to weaken the position of mothers, especially in the labour market. I think that the fact that this issue has been raised here is a good thing. We should now consider together how we could find a way to genuinely think about solutions to these questions, but in such a way that we would carry out a larger whole than what the government is now proposing. At the same time as talking about home care support and possible municipalities, it is also good to remember the debate on early childhood education and its support. There is also much evidence that early childhood education is in the best interests of the child. Municipalities, on the other hand, often look at this issue purely from the point of view of which is more advantageous to the municipality, of providing home care support and more than possible, or of bringing children into early childhood education. Of course, it should not be a matter of economic priority, but it has become so in many municipalities. This, too, is due to the fact that our system of central government transfers has developed in such a way that the capacity of municipalities to organise services is very weak. The idea of parliamentary work on the reform of this entire family leave system has been raised here in the past. In my opinion, such a work would be worthy of support. The parties have different priorities and the individual representatives have different priorities, but there would certainly be an entity that would be better than the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u113	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate, but when part of it has come to light that, as if nothing had been compensated so far, I would like to remind you that, in our current system, around 70% of the direct costs of maternity and parental leave for the employer are now being reimbursed to the employer. In fact, the 10% of the salary that Kela does not pay will be paid by the employer during maternity leave. Now this system, which is being created, gives a lump sum, which partly overcompensates, partly undercompensated these costs, and that is why I personally believe that the cost would be better met by developing this current system, raising the level of compensation and extending the base, because then it would actually compensate for the very costs that the employer will incur. In my view, this one-off payment model is the biggest downside in the fact that the mother does not have to go back to work. The idea is, in fact, also to compensate for these costs of caring for a sick child, but they do not come to employers if the mother does not return to work, and statistically even when we look at it, these costs of a sick child are more evenly distributed between fathers and mothers than our normal care responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u114	Madam President! Mr Parviainen and Mr Filatov also raised important points of view in their last speeches. I fully agree that such a more comprehensive reform and this flexibility in this system should be seen in the future. Even if employers were left with only that 10% — although many of them have presented quite different figures — I would still urge that we consider this change in the system to the extent that all the costs of motherhood, fatherhood, parenthood are to be borne by society. Children are our future, and the well-being of families with children also in terms of parents’ access to work and career advancement is very important, and I think that would be one step forward for a modern, democratic welfare state to think forward on a larger scale. However, if you are a young woman and you are in sight that you can have those maternity leave, yes, especially for small entrepreneurs, on your own, for two entrepreneurs, it may well be a risk, and even though they appreciate children and having children, for many it is such an alarm bell that you dare to take such an employee. This is just a message from the entrepreneurs. In a certain way, I would now also like to point out that the provision of children for young families should be encouraged, so that children should be acquired considerably earlier than at present. Here, for example, we come to student youth to have this guardianship allowance, so that students too dare to start a family and also to have those children much earlier, so that when they have finished their studies, they will be able to work flexibly and without any major breaks there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u115	Madam President! There has been a good debate here, and I do not want to drag it out, but now that this SAK model has come up many times as an alternative, it must of course bear in mind that when it comes to the idea that in this three-month period this child should be treated by someone other than the mother, the idea that the mother is also being pushed back to that part of the world of work is very sensitive. In that sense, first of all, this directive on pregnancy protection is based on the fact that it should be possible for the mother to quota this for at least 14 weeks, of which two weeks are absolutely mandatory. In other words, the idea that the mother who gave birth to her is already starting from EU legislation to ensure that she recovers from pregnancy and childbirth. In that sense, I think that this SAK model has the weakness that it contains such a hidden idea, could it be said, that it is going to be snooze and sash, even in the three months since birth, and that is something that I cannot support in that model? What is good about that model is the possibility of more flexible use of earnings-related days than is currently the case. There is something about it that is worth considering, because sometimes, for example, family members who work part-time may have situations that it might be quite possible to arrange for the care of a child between spouses if these earnings-related ones could be more flexibly held together and, could you say, for shorter periods of time, indicate which one is at home? Of course, this may lead to more red tape on the employer's side, but from that point of view, this kind of flexibility in the modern labour market could be good for the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u116	Madam President! Finally, I would like to point out that in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities we heard a lot of experts and, as a lobbying organisation, the business women said that this was a step in the right direction. Of course, these models are different now and everyone is looking for their own way, but it is good to remember now that this is the first step towards making up for employers for the first time, and we can always look for better models for the future. Indeed, business women pointed out — they are talking about baby bills — that it puts a particular strain on women-dominated sectors and small entrepreneurs, and they were delighted that this was a good first step, but they thought it would be a good first step. Criticism also highlighted how then we could prevent problems such as the absence of a key person and the training of a substitute. Well, I'm sure there's no way. If the person who decides to stay on parental leave and have children is the key person in the company, then he is entitled to be absent. Then, of course, society must make it possible for families to be at home, and either one of them can stay at home and this one goes back to work when he thinks it is best. Of course, we cannot prevent this, and it is such a matter that families themselves choose it, and then, in fact, that reimbursement of expenses is the only thing. In conclusion, however, I would like to say, as in previous speeches, that I want to create a model that allows us to take care of our child at home for as long as possible or to go to work. It has to be a family choice. Nor do I want to think that a woman should go to work as quickly as possible if she does not want to do so herself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u117	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u118	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Health Insurance Act, the Medicines Act and the Health Care Professional Act. An increase of 134 million is being made in the amount of pharmaceutical reimbursement savings. It is proposed that savings in the reimbursement of medicines be made by means of measures to promote price competition between pharmaceutical companies, to reduce pharmaceutical waste and to promote rational medical treatment. Amongst other things, there is much to support and good in these proposals. However, as with many other government proposals, there is also a big minus mark on this, namely the revision of the special compensation system. Drug reimbursements have already been cut several times during the current regime. Increasing the share of pharmaceutical expenditure is a direct cut in the already poor income of older people, and it is particularly worrying in this proposal that it is proposed to revise the special reimbursement scheme so that all non-insulin products are presented for transfer to the lower special replacement category. There are alternative measures for this measure, including health-based taxes such as sugar tax and alcohol tax, as suggested in the Christian Democrats' alternative budget. And it is precisely because of the lack of specific substitution of anti-diabetic agents that I propose that this proposal should be presented in the first place. the draft law is rejected. Why would I do that? Diabetes is a very special disease. It is actually a group of metabolic diseases, and if we think that all types of diabetes are predisposed to various types of supplementary diseases, it is precisely these diseases that are more difficult and significantly more harmful to normal life than diabetes alone. Good treatment of diabetes prevents supplementary diseases and therefore, overall, it is very important to treat diabetes. Some 300,000 Finns have been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, but it is also estimated that some 150,000 suffer from type 2 diabetes without knowing it. Approximately 15% of the middle-aged population have diabetes and about 35% have some sugar metabolism disorders. About 12% of pregnancy diabetes is diagnosed and should be a very alarming sign overall. These serious complications that diabetes is already making before a customer or patient, a citizen knows about his or her diabetes disease as a whole, include other long-term, irreversible changes in the eyes, kidneys, nervous system and cardiovascular system. It is also often found in the background of depression. These reduce the ability to work and lead to premature death in many cases. In addition to human suffering, they multiply the cost of treating diabetes. All in all, a time bomb is brewing in the savings of antidiabetic drugs. In a typical antidiabetic treatment, the patient currently pays EUR 13.5 for a 3-month treatment. Starting next year, the patient's cost would be 10 times higher, i.e. approximately EUR 187. In fact, savings will not be savings. Type 2 diabetes is a disease that, when treated inadequately, leads to serious organ damage and additional diseases. It is much more expensive for society to treat them than it is to replace medicines for those who have fallen ill. The majority of the cost of treating diabetes is due to the treatment of supplementary diseases. It is estimated that it will amount to around EUR 800 million per year. Instead of easy-to-use antidiabetics, low-income people will have to switch to insulin, and the cost of treatment management will increase, among other things. Overall, inequality is increasing. It has been suggested that some 155,000 aged type 2 diabetics are the most severely affected and that more than two thirds of those taking antidiabetics, other than insulin, are over 65 years of age. Significant cost solutions can be achieved through rational drug therapy, minimising drug loss and competition for generic products and biosimilars. In addition, research should be carried out into the delivery system for medicines and the market structure that best contributes to the well-being of the long-term sick. But here too, in the care of citizens, patients and in the reduction of costs, prevention is the most important thing. This effective promotion of health and well-being must start with the first millimetres of life and be pursued throughout life. A much more effective focus should be placed on reducing obesity, increasing physical activity and so on, and, if necessary, of course, everyone should also have access to the necessary treatment. It is not right for older people to wonder whether they can afford food or whether they are spending their euros on medicines. Unfortunately, even today many have to choose and, of course, choose the food. On the whole, there are many arguments, studies which are in favour of what I am proposing, as I mentioned earlier, that the first law of this government's proposal will be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u119	Madam President! It is a real shame that the government is always targeting various cuts and savings on the same groups of people, namely the sick, the elderly, the unemployed, families with children and those who depend in many ways on different forms of support from our society, and we are now talking about medicines, financial support or services. The Government is now proposing changes to the Health Insurance Act, the Medical Act and the Health Care Professional Act to achieve the savings target of the pharmaceutical reimbursement system included in the Government Programme. It is proposed that savings be made by means of measures to promote price competition between pharmaceutical companies, to reduce pharmaceutical waste, to promote rational medical treatment and to revise the special reimbursement system. In this respect, this proposal is to be welcomed in many ways. It is good that medical waste should be taken into account and addressed. It is also absolutely essential, perhaps the most important thing, to promote rational medical treatment that is of benefit to both the patient and our society. In this respect, the proposals are generally acceptable, but in relation to diabetes treatment, the government's proposal is not justified in any way in our view. First of all, diabetes is a highly hereditary disease. Diabetes is the most expensive disease in terms of total cost if it is not treated well, as it may result in a person suffering from adjunctive diseases, which cost many times as much as the cost of diabetes alone. Typical associated diseases include coronary artery disease, macular degeneration, kidney diseases requiring dialysis, peripheral vascular diseases that have caused amputations, among others. Diabetes is a disease for both children and the elderly. However, most of them are over 65 years old. This surgery is most important for pensioners with low income diabetes. Yesterday, for example, in Lappeenranta, an elderly lady said that she is currently retired, and her medical costs have been at a level that has been able to treat diabetes well. Now, for his part, these costs increase by about EUR 200 for three months, as a result, he said, his financial situation will cause him not to know whether he is capable of taking care of his own diabetes treatment. In that regard, this surgery is very, could be said to be discriminatory, and this will cause many people with older or low income diabetes to have many problems, and in that respect we cannot support this proposal. We know that untreated diabetes causes costs. In addition to the cost of medicines, it will generate additional costs for health services. The cost of treatment will increase both in patients and in society. We do not believe that there is any real justification for the savings that the government is now seeking with this proposal. According to experts, this saving of EUR 20 million could lead to multiple additional costs for society. That is why we are presenting a proposal for a statement, which is based precisely on the fact that the regulation will decide on the substitution of diabetes. We propose: 'The government requires that the Government does not change the Government's regulation on medicinal products to replace them in such a way that non-insulin products are transferred from a 100 % substitution category to a 60 % substitution category.'
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u120	Madam President! First of all, I support the motion for rejection, in line with Mr Tanus's objection 4. Then all we have to do is agree with these previous speakers and wonder why this particular antidiabetic medicine, other than an insulin preparation, has been chosen to transfer to this lower special category of allowance and in that way increase the cost of medicines for those who certainly already have little work to do with it. I saw a study by THL which showed that these serious complications of diabetes, such as complications leading to amputation, are precisely the result of untreated diabetes in people with these lowest income deciles. In that sense, this is particularly cruel. So the person who fights with his livelihood then has to wonder whether he buys food or buys medicine and not buys the medicine, so that these most serious complications are then targeted precisely according to the income category. In my opinion, we should really think about the fact that the poorest are to be targeted by these serious symptoms and carelessness. In that way, as Mr Tanus has already said, this is also part of the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats, which means that we absolutely want to return this compensation. If you look again at the whole of central government finances, the whole of the budget, then this is a rather incomprehensible cut, and then, on the other hand, just like last year, when we talked about these compensations for celiacists, one group of people is being treated. We really cannot accept these, and in that sense this objection must then be rejected in relation to this first bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u121	Madam President! Government policy is antisocial and inhuman. The consequences of the financial crisis and low growth will be paid for by the many sick people who use drugs, who are often also the lowest-income people. This committee's report, supported by the government parties, accepts the savings target of EUR 134 million in the state budget for reimbursement of medicines, of which EUR 60 million is the state's share. This saving measure is a continuum for the EUR 25 million pharmaceutical reimbursement savings made at the beginning of 2016, when, among other things, a completely new initial charge of EUR 50 was introduced for pharmaceutical expenses. The cuts in 2017 are being paid for by diabetics in particular. In terms of social and health policy, cuts to medical compensation cannot be regarded as fair. Those with low incomes and a lot of health problems have been hit by the most severe increase in own responsibilities. Health care compensation has been cut several times in recent years, and the total social welfare and health care customer fees have tripled since 1990, even before the most recent cuts. These cuts jeopardise access to appropriate care and the development of public health. In only a few EU countries, the share of health care expenditure paid by the customer is higher than in Finland. Even now, low incomes are compromising on essential medicines and appropriate treatment. It is appropriate to ask whether in the future, the medicine best suited for him or the medicine he can afford will be used in Finland. Mr President! In view of the above, I propose that the legislative proposals contained in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health be rejected in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u122	Mr President! I support Mr Pekonen's motion for rejection. I find these government pharmaceutical savings very annoying. According to a survey conducted by the Diabetes Association in elderly diabetics, many diabetics are already having to compromise on the amount of their medicines, food or heating because of the price of medicines. In fact, a couple of weeks ago, a report by the Consumer Union appeared, stating that those with the highest incomes from these government savings and cuts are the ones with the lowest incomes, the ones with the highest incomes, the ones with the highest incomes, the reduction in medical fees and, in fact, the increase in visiting fees in health centres and the increase in travel costs. Indeed, these are all of the same population groups. The savings made in 2016 are the most painful for sick low incomes. EUR 22.5 million were cut from medical allowances and EUR 11 million from patients' travel allowances. A EUR 50 own contribution was introduced for medicinal products and a EUR 16 EUR 25 increase for patients’ travel expenses after exceeding the cap on medicinal products. And all of these really do target quite the same population group. According to Kela, the number of people with lower incomes increased more frequently and among the lowest incomes was the highest among those with a higher contribution of up to EUR 100 to 200 per year. The cuts in travel allowances were particularly targeted at the elderly in sparsely populated areas. In its own budget, the Green Parliamentary Group has been looking for alternatives to these savings. We do not want to make savings that unfairly affect the weaker in society and that increase health inequalities. We have proposed that instead of increasing the burden on patients, savings should be sought from the overall reform of the pharmacy system. In Finland, wholesale pharmaceutical prices are among the lowest in Europe, but consumer prices are among the highest. In other words, in the current system, the consumer pays too much for his medicines and at the same time the pharmacists benefit disproportionately. Under the current system, the authority will decide how many pharmacies are allowed in the area, at what price the medicines are sold and who are the pharmacists in the area. Applicants meeting all strict criteria must not set up a pharmacy and pharmacies must not compete with each other at prices. This inevitably increases costs and reduces access to medicines. Competition restrictions prevent greater efficiency in the distribution of medicines as a whole and significant cost savings. That is why we Greens have proposed that the number of pharmacies should be clarified and the transition to ceiling prices should be clarified, which is likely to lead to lower prices for medicines in Finland. This change would mean that pharmacies would compete with each other both in terms of price, quality and location. And most importantly, this reform of the pharmacy system could bring the savings needed, and that would mean that increases in patients' contributions and other pharmaceutical savings could be reversed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u123	Mr President! The reduction in the level of substitution for antidiabetic medicinal products — fortunately not for insulin — is justified by the fact that this would be at the same level as for cardiovascular diseases, for example. However, this reduction in the level of compensation cannot be supported, as in the past there have been so many cuts in the reimbursement of medicines that they have already significantly increased the customer's ownership. In practice, this surgery will also target older people, as according to the Finnish Association of Diabetes, among others, the proportion of people aged 65 or over in non-insulin-using diabetics is over one-half and about one-third are over 75 years old, which means that the surgery would therefore be directed at people with multiple illnesses, elderly people and people with low means in particular. At the moment, there is already an accumulation of supplementary diseases in the lowest income categories, and this proposal will further increase socio-economic health inequalities. In view of the fact that these avoidable supplementary diseases should be prevented, otherwise this will be much more expensive for both the individual and society, and in view of the government's other austerity policy, which targets several cuts in basic benefits and the livelihoods of the lowest-income people, we cannot consider it reasonable to increase the contributions of customers. Expert consultations have also often highlighted the need to assess the system of reimbursement and the grouping of diseases as a whole, and it would be fairer if, instead of reducing the substitution of the existing anti-diabetic medicines, the substitution of all diseases would be assessed at the same time and on equal grounds. As we know, the Minister has set up a working group of officials to examine the need for the development of the pharmaceutical reimbursement system, and it is therefore considered that the situation of these diabetic patients should not be undermined now, but should first wait for this study to be completed and only then make the necessary proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u124	Mr President! Indeed, type two diabetes is a serious and insidious disease, since this type of type 2 diabetes affects about half a million people and 300,000 of them are covered by this treatment. So we have about 150,000 citizens on that street who do not even know that they have this, yet the disease is constantly destroying them. This is typically at the age of 40, and today it is becoming common in younger age groups, but this is primarily a disease for the elderly. There is also a very strong risk of inheritance, since if one parent suffers from type 2 diabetes, then there is a 40% risk of it, and if both parents do, the risk is already increasing to 70 percent. In the case of older people in particular, the illness also involves associated diseases, which is why the drug bill and this question of compensation is particularly important for older people. So this will add to the financial burden, and it may be that we will then pinch this medicine, which will not immediately show its effects in this and now in that life, and it is easy to think that well, then that medicine will be spared, and will not be taken. Here the Minister also spoke a little bit about changing lifestyles to change this disease. Well, we know that diet and exercise are connected to this. But if we think of old people who may have osteoarthritis and reduced mobility, his obesity may be due to his inability to move in that way. This exercise and health-promoting activity is of course important in this context, but it is also the case that not everyone can succeed in that way no matter what is done, and then this medication is the only way to prevent these adjunct diseases and to prevent serious complications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u125	Mr President! Mr Haatainen well pointed out how, in fact, type two diabetes is highly hereditary and cannot always be prevented by lifestyle. Such an idea is truly flawed that life - styles could always help prevent the disease from coming. But what I wanted to raise here is that the Diabetes Federation did ask the question, and even now the money for all the elderly is not enough for medicines. Half of these responses have already had to compromise on other expenditure, such as food, or on the other hand, the savings have been made in reducing the use of medicines. Therefore, it should be considered if the proposed surgery occurs whether income determines whether optimal treatment of diabetes is possible. This is not the way a society like Finland should be. Added diseases are already building up in the lowest income categories. If we consider that 34 diseases are now included in the special compensation category, only one patient group would be operated on, the criteria for compensation for the other 33 diseases were not updated at all. As we talked about, overall life - styles do not justify reducing the substitution of antidiabetic drugs. We have legislation which says that special compensation is determined on the basis of the difficulty of the disease and the need for a medicine to treat it, not on the basis of lifestyle. As has been said in the debate, there are a great many arguments why this bill, the first law, should be rejected, as I objected to 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u126	Mr President! Type two diabetes is a disease that, when inadequately treated, leads to serious organ damage and additional diseases, which are far more expensive for society than the substitution of medicines for the affected. There is therefore no health policy or economic justification for this cut. This proposal is also an increase in health inequalities and inequality, as it is the lowest-income elderly who suffer the most from it, because it is in this particular population that type 2 diabetes is the most common. Moreover, it is very unfair that a large part of the savings in reimbursement of medicines are to be paid by one patient group. Why this particular group of patients? The surgery endangers the good results of treatment of type 2 diabetes, and it also endangers patient safety, since after these surgery, an increasing number of patients cannot afford proper medical treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u127	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u128	Mr. Speaker! The representative, Mr Laukkanen, has proposed and hopes that: "A year after the entry into force of this Act, the Parliament will require an assessment of whether the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act and the Maritime Labour Contracts Act has actually enabled the long-term unemployed to be employed in a fixed-term employment relationship without any specific justification, has actually improved the employment opportunities of the long-term unemployed. If the amendment of the law has not improved the employment opportunities of the long-term unemployed and there is no legitimate reason to assess this change in the future, then the need for a review of the law's validity should be re-evaluated." In this way, when we have thought of this government proposal from the point of view of both employers and workers, and especially from the point of view of the long-term unemployed, we believe that such an assessment should indeed be made, so I support Mr Laukkanen's initial proposal. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u129	Mr President! First of all, I support the statement made by Mr Tanus, which has also been distributed to you on the tables there. In that debate last week, at first reading, I raised a few points about the overall attitude of the Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party towards this proposal. This is part of this package of the kiky agreement, could you say, and, in the sense that we are in favour of the kiky agreement as such, we are in favour of this too, but not of this paragraph on the employment opportunities of the long-term unemployed, which allows this unjustified use of fixed-term contracts. We understand that it is extremely important that, by any means and by any means possible, we try to find those employment opportunities for the long-term unemployed, but there were doubts in the committee as to whether this is the best way to go, plus of course there are always people in the world who are trying to take advantage of this type of situation, and we do not want this opportunity to be opened up. We want to take a look at this situation, and that is why we are really saying in this statement that we should look at this issue after a year, for example, and then see if it has actually happened that the employment of these people has improved. There is also this extension of the probationary period. It is in line with the Christian Democrats' election programme, and we have also supported it. Investing in an employee is the company's most important investment, and in that sense it is certainly very important that this trial period is such that both the employer and the employee will then be able to reflect on this issue. Then this obligation to take back was something that we in the Group did discuss, but here as a whole we believe that this is acceptable within this whole package, and in that sense this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u130	Mr President! It is understandable that we are beginning to get a little confused in this Chamber about the laws of competitiveness relating to labour law and those of non-member countries, and I would simply correct that this was not in the competitiveness package, but that it was the government’s own work — albeit tripartitely prepared, but not unanimously accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u131	And the reply, Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Filatov, for this correction, but indeed this has been prepared on a tripartite basis, and I understand that these are the specific points which have been discussed since then as part of these employment measures and this overall solution to the labour market. I understand that this was also the case with these proposals for amendment by the Social Democrats at first reading last week, which did not, by themselves, go in the direction of overturning the actual proposal, but were in line with the desire to extend these transitional periods — if I understood correctly that debate last week.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u133	Mr President! I propose that the amendments proposed by the government be rejected in accordance with protest 2. Behind this package is largely an ideological assumption that reducing employment security would automatically work for the benefit of businesses and employers. This is by no means the case, as everyone more familiar with the labour market understands. First of all, security of employment in Finland is not particularly strict in international comparisons in such a way that we should be concerned about some international competitiveness in this regard. On the other hand, it is known that the weakening of working conditions reduces the commitment of workers, which is a direct risk to the company in terms of efficiency. Thirdly, this proposal has emerged as a result of various negotiations and compromises in a form that does not explicitly support the interests of the employer and in any case does not support the interests of the employee in the labour market. Here are three key reforms and some minor amendments. The first is the extension of the probationary period from 4 to 6 months, which is currently a normal probationary period for officials, but it has indeed been enough elsewhere for 4 months. Such a change will therefore take place in a situation where the life expectancy of employment relationships will be reduced in the near future and, rather, in the labour market, efforts will be made to prepare continuously for mobile operators from one employment relationship to another. In a world where employment was supposed to be long, even for a lifetime, four months was enough. It is incomprehensible that in a world where employment relationships are expected to remain on average for perhaps a few years, as may have been the case in many of the countries that have been ahead of us in this respect, four months is too short. Another key problem related to this extension of the probationary period to 6 months is that it involves an additional option for the employer to extend the probationary period even further if, for example, family leave means that the person has been away a lot during the probationary period. Traditionally, we have thought that a trial period is a time when both employers and employees will be able to feel the employment relationship and assess the situation as to whether this is now such an agreement that is advantageous for both. Now that this extension option is clearly defined for the employer but not for the employee, a situation will arise in which the entire probationary period will be determined in different ways. The whole probationary period is interpreted differently from what it has hitherto been the practice of labour law to interpret. Although, in practice, this may be of little significance, in principle, it is a rather big paradigm shift. Well, another reform of this proposal is to allow the long-term unemployed to have a fixed-term contract of employment that is unjustified or unwarranted. I find it difficult to see the way in which this would somehow increase the degree of freedom of the worker, as it is already possible to conclude fixed-term contracts without separate grounds when it is at the initiative of the worker. On the other hand, in our expert consultation in committee, although I asked about this at all meetings, none of the experts was able to describe a specific situation in which an employer who has some duubies about the ability or suitability of a long-term unemployed worker would prefer to use a fixed-term contract rather than, for example, a probationary period and an agreement that is in force for the time being. In the course of a fixed-term contract, termination is much more difficult than under an agreement that is in force for an indefinite period. Nor was the employer able to describe any situation in which they benefited from this bill. The third key reform here is to weaken, shorten the readmission obligation. According to experts, this involves, of course, less job security for employees, but also a kind of mine for employers. In this way, economic and productive reasons for dismissal do not change their status. If the employer now decides to hire another person for the work he has previously made, as the obligation to take back has been reduced, very quickly, it can prove that there is illegal dismissal in the sense that the economic and productive causes have not been properly realised in the event of dismissal, then it is clear that there will be more work soon to be found. For these reasons, I do not consider this to be a sensible or acceptable package of laws for anyone in this society, and I do not see any reason why we should adopt bad laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u134	Mr President! There are therefore three key proposals in this bill. Firstly, it is proposed to extend the probationary period; secondly, it is proposed to allow the employment of the long-term unemployed to take up a fixed-term employment relationship for a maximum period of one year, without the employer having a legitimate reason for the period. Thirdly, it is proposed to reduce the duration of the employer's readmission obligation. The first two proposals would be acceptable even if these laws were to be adopted on a fixed-term basis, since there is no compelling evidence of the benefits of these two legislative proposals and therefore a fixed-term law would have been justified. However, this proposal to reduce the readmission obligation is, on the other hand, very difficult to understand and very difficult to accept, since it does not improve employment but in practice nullifies the importance of the readmission obligation. The proposal significantly weakens the protection against dismissal, and the protection against dismissal is already weak in Finland compared to several European countries, for example. There is a particular risk that the unemployment rate of older workers will increase by making it easier for the employer to replace an experienced worker with a young person or a new employee with a lower wage. The least that can be done in this situation is to accept a proposal for a statement under protest 1, which requires Parliament to monitor closely the impact of the bill and to make the necessary changes to the legislation accordingly. I therefore propose that this draft statement be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u135	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. As far as this legislative package is concerned, there is one thing we support, one thing we tolerate and one thing we oppose. We are in favour of facilitating the rules governing the conclusion of fixed-term employment contracts specifically for the long-term unemployed. International studies show that if deadlines are made easier for all workers, which was in fact the government's original objective, then it may be a small honeymoon with a slight increase in employment, but then, in the longer term, these fixed-term workers will only replace permanent employment and, in itself, the employment benefit will not come. This was reflected in many international reports. Of course, it is true that all countries are different from their labour legislation and can never compare the research that has been done in one country directly to another, but quite a lot of countries, those very close to the Finnish system, had negative or neutral results in terms of employment. But now that this has been reduced to the fact that it is only the long-term unemployed, the whole purpose is actually changing. It is then a question of specifically trying to employ the long-term unemployed and to facilitate their situation in the labour market that does not necessarily seek to improve the overall employment rate. This is what we ourselves have proposed, and especially because we, for example, employ a large number of long-term unemployed people in the organisation field — and often for the same job successively, the various long-term unemployed. This is, in fact, somewhat problematic under the fixed-term provisions of the Employment Contracts Act, and this provision now facilitates this situation, and certainly also the employment of organisations through wage subsidies from the legal point of view. The second thing is that the government has cut these subsidies so much that... [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : The speaker can continue with the speaker. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u138	Mr President! Without further ado, I support Mr Kontula's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u139	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u140	Mr President! Finland has many problems with the quality of construction. There are increasing numbers of people with moisture and mould problems. The energy efficiency of buildings still needs to be worked on. By increasing energy efficiency throughout the life cycle of the building, we can both achieve climate goals and save money and natural resources. Building health and energy efficiency need not and must not be opposed. Mr President! On the basis of the above, among other things, in this second reading, I will make the following statement to the Government's Land Use and Building Act, in accordance with protest 1: "The Parliament requires that the achievement of the energy efficiency requirements of the Finnish building stock be monitored and the necessary measures taken if the objectives are not met. The emission reduction targets and the energy efficiency requirements of the building stock must meet each other's requirements and they must genuinely reduce emissions throughout the life cycle of the building."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u141	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mr Taimela. I would like to add to the debate that Parliament held on this issue at first reading that this concept of 'zero energy building' gives a slightly false impression of what the government's proposal means. As far as housing is concerned, that does not, in fact, lead to a slight tightening of the current level of energy regulations, as regards office buildings. A couple of weeks ago, two Aalto University professors and one researcher criticised this government proposal specifically for lack of ambition and stated that in Denmark, for example, the standard is already much stricter and yet the outdoor temperature to which this building's energy consumption is then compared is just over 2 degrees warmer in that Danish calculation than in Finland's comparison. In other words, Denmark's stricter standards are a reality. After all, in Finland, the energy efficiency of buildings and energy efficiency in general are easily labeled by many simply to increase costs, but already in 2012 it was found that the most cost-effective, i.e. the most cost-effective, would have been in the new buildings at a higher level than the current standard of 7%. So, on this basis, too, the lack of ambition that the government's proposal means is not justified. That is why it is important that the actual effects of this proposal should then be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u142	Värderade Talman! Energy-form factors strongly guide construction. In a situation where the energy production system is undergoing a major transformation, caution should be exercised when applying coefficients that differ widely. The factors now presented do not reflect the current emissions situation and guide technical systems, which make it difficult, among other things, to adopt smart solutions in the future. When we build for 50 years, hopefully for 100 years, it should not be a 15-year-old idea of the emissions from an energy source. It should also be noted that, according to these factors, a house heated with water or wind power, for example, should be 2.5 times as energy efficient as a house heated with coal. I don't think that's appropriate. From the point of view of future developments, it would be appropriate to reduce the differences between the energy-form factors. Finnish legislation should, where appropriate, interpret EU directives as broadly as possible. This is not the case in the bill. The directive on nearly zero construction limits the requirements to buildings with a heated utility area of less than 50 square metres. This bill applies a 50-square metre limit. This difference should be corrected. The current interpretation makes certain types of eco-building solutions impossible. An alternative procedure based on structural energy efficiency has been proposed to establish compliance with energy efficiency requirements. This requires significant increases in U-values and high efficiency for heat recovery machinery. According to research at Tampere University of Technology, tightening the U-values has been found to increase the risk of moisture. Increasing the efficiency of heat recovery machinery will, in turn, lead to technical solutions that have been found to increase moisture load in indoor air. This alternative procedure should not be introduced without further investigation. The Government should take these considerations into account. In view of the above, I propose that the following statement be adopted: "The Commission calls for the Council of State to take into account Finnish legislation should, where appropriate, interpret EU directives as broadly as possible. In addition, the alternative method of verifying compliance with energy efficiency requirements allowed by the draft law requires more detailed studies."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u143	Värderade Talman! Without further ado, I support the proposal made by Mr Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u144	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 34/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u145	Mr President! This Government proposal deals with the Health Insurance Act and the Act on rehabilitation benefits and rehabilitation allowance benefits of the Social Insurance Institution, which are proposed to be amended so that the provision on the determination of daily allowances to be implemented in accordance with these laws is amended so that the annual income of EUR 56443 is abolished and the daily allowance is therefore 20 per cent of the third hundredth of the annual income in so far as the annual income exceeds EUR 30000. In other words, this is a savings law, and the savings are on this part of the health insurance contribution. Therefore, this has no budgetary impact on government expenditure. The daily allowance fee for employers and employees and entrepreneurs is estimated to decrease by 0.01 percentage points. The committee notes in its report that, as a whole, estimates are not regarded as desirable developments leading to the erosion of the insurance principle in earnings-related social insurance. The committee also notes here that the whole system is threatened with a problem of legitimacy if the trend, which repeatedly affects the higher income categories, is continued, but payments are linked to earnings and benefits are moving towards the principle of equal pay. It should also be noted that if social insurance does not provide adequate security for citizens, it may become necessary to supplement it with private insurance. The second proposal, which is contained in this package of legislation, concerns rehabilitation allowance. In other words, in addition to these proposed cuts, the government's proposal includes additional efforts to encourage rehabilitation and thus integration into the labour market. The minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance for young people and rehabilitation allowance in vocational rehabilitation is proposed to be increased to the level of the guarantee pension. Similarly, this government proposal proposes that the rehabilitation allowance based on the decision on vocational rehabilitation may also be granted for the period of basic education under the conditions laid down by law. This is already possible for under 20-year-olds, and the purpose of this proposed reform is to encourage active support measures for persons aged over 20 without a vocational qualification who are at risk of exclusion from working life due to illness or disability. The Committee welcomes measures to improve the incentive for young people to enter the labour market. Support for studies as rehabilitation is targeted at such disabled young people who could be excluded from working life without special incentives. In addition, the Government's proposal to extend the period of validity of the provision allowing the reimbursement of the medical allowance for the private healthcare service provided on public premises is in full. This is therefore related to the law, which has been fixed-term, which is being proposed for extension. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that Parliament accept the Government's proposal for the First and Second Acts of 216/2016 without amendment. There is also an objection to this motion; there is an amendment to the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u146	Mr President! The Government proposes savings in order to seek further changes to the health insurance system. The amount of sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance for persons receiving more than EUR 30000 per year’s earnings is calculated. The savings have been estimated at EUR 25 million per year and EUR 18 million in 2017. The savings do not relate to government expenditure. In addition, the position of young people who are able to participate in part-time work will be improved, inter alia, by raising the minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance to the level of the guaranteed pension and by extending it to cover the period of basic education. The cost impact is estimated at EUR 14.7 million in 2017, of which the central government contribution would be EUR 14.2 million. In addition, the government proposal proposes to extend the provision allowing the payment of sickness benefit for private health care services provided on public premises. The improvement of the position of young people is based on the working group work carried out during the last government term, which assesses the need for regulatory change to promote the employment of people with partial work capacity. We support this proposal as well as the proposal for private health care, in accordance with the committee's report. However, we cannot accept the calculation of sickness allowance and rehabilitation money, which is why we object to this motion. Mr President! Cutting earnings-related benefits undermines the principle of insurance. The government will again cut off earnings-related health insurance. There have been several surgeries, and the whole package of health insurance must already be difficult to understand. It should be noted that earnings-related daily allowances are financed by employers' and employees' contributions, so the savings do not apply to the state. Repeated cuts to earnings-related daily allowances undermine the earnings and insurance principle of social security. The main objective of the Finnish welfare state has been to provide comprehensive and cost-effective social security for all. Continuous cuts to earnings-related benefits call this principle into question. As statutory social security weakens, more people will need to improve social protection through private insurance. There's a lot of things about surgery. The current cut will be for sickness and rehabilitation allowances, which were already cut at the beginning of this year so that the ceiling on annual earnings qualifying for 70% compensation was reduced from just over EUR 36,000 to EUR 30000 and the subsequent increase was reduced to 35%. The upper income limit, about 56,000, was left unchanged. The lower cut was unduly targeted at middle-income employees. In addition, the government now removes the upper roof and lowers the previous 35% compensation to 20 per cent. The government proposal means that the amount of sickness allowance, partial sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance will be reduced by more than EUR 30000 per year for all those who earn it. Together with the cuts made at the beginning of the year, the income of the wage and salary earners affected and receiving rehabilitation will be reduced by between 10 and 20 per cent. For example, the sickness allowance for those who earn EUR 2900 per month will decrease by EUR 208 per month, the daily allowance for those who earn EUR 4100 will decrease by EUR 490 per month. The allocation of savings to the rehabilitation allowance can affect the incentive of rehabilitation. These cuts have led to an increasing increase in the disability pension compared to sickness allowance. The reduction in the level of sickness allowance also increases the pressure to review priority regulations. The government should therefore take a time-out in its cuts and look at the whole. The complexity of the health insurance system and the weakening of substitutability affect the functioning of the Finnish welfare society as a whole. Mr President! For this reason, we propose that the second draft law be adopted in accordance with the committee's report and that the first draft law be adopted otherwise in accordance with the committee's report, except in Chapter 11, Section 1 deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u147	Mr President! The allocation of these savings to the rehabilitation allowance may have an impact on the incentive for rehabilitation, and the cuts have resulted in disability pension being increasingly better than sickness allowance. Reducing the level of this sickness allowance will also increase the pressure to review the priority provisions. Together with the Left Alliance and the Demars, we have agreed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that the government should have taken time out of these cuts and looked at the whole. The complexity of the health insurance system and the weakening of substitutability affect the functioning of the Finnish welfare society as a whole. That is why I support Mr Kiljunen's recent proposal that 2. the adoption of the draft law in accordance with the committee's report and the adoption of the first draft law otherwise in accordance with the committee's report, except in Chapter 11, Section 1; deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u148	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 35/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u149	Mr President! This Government proposal concerns support for the functioning of the elderly population and the Act on social and health services for the elderly and the amendment of Article 42 of the Social Welfare Act. We're talking about an old-age service worker in the vernacular. The Old Age Services Act was adopted before the Social Welfare Act and now contains provisions equivalent to those laid down in the new Social Welfare Act of all ages. According to these draft laws, the Act on Social Welfare for the Elderly will partially remove the overlapping provision on the responsible worker and reduce the obligations of municipalities. The aim is also to reduce the administrative burden on municipalities and reduce the costs of organising services. The aim is to make the use of staff more flexible and to harmonise the regulation of the various categories of social welfare customers. This proposal is part of the programme of measures to reduce the tasks and obligations of the municipalities of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government's programme. This is intended to reduce costs by around EUR 27.4 million. According to Article 10 of the Old Age Services Act, the municipality must have access to sufficient expertise to support the well-being, health and functional capacity of the elderly population and to support independent performance, as well as to provide quality social and health services for older people. There the law, including the law currently in force, states that there must be specific expertise, at least in the areas of well-being and health promotion, gerontological care and social work, geriatrics, medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. Then again, Article 17 of the Elderly Services Act provides for a responsible worker. Under the current law, the municipality must appoint an elderly person as a responsible worker if he or she needs assistance in matters relating to the implementation and coordination of services. Now the government proposal proposes Article 10 the list of professional sectors for which the municipality must have access to specialist expertise to be removed. On a case-by-case basis, the municipality could consider what kind of expertise is needed. In the case of self-employed workers, Article 17 of the Act on Elderly Services states that it is the responsibility of the responsible worker to monitor, inter alia, the implementation of the service plan of the elderly person and changes in service needs. If necessary, he should also contact those responsible for organising the services and others in order to meet the needs of an elderly person and advise and assist an elderly person in matters relating to access to services and benefits. This proposal now proposes Article 42 of the Social Welfare Act. ) to be amended so that the self-employed person must be a professional within the meaning of Article 3 of the Act on Social Welfare Professionals, but the self-employed person may be a health care professional if it is justified by the customer's service package. The municipality can assess for the elderly as well as for other customer groups, which is the best way for the social welfare and health care professional to support the performance of the tasks of the self-employed in relation to the service package of the social care customer. According to Article 42 of the proposal, a child or other self-employed person in need of special support from a customer or working with him or her must continue to be a social worker. In its opinion, the committee stated that the implementation of the law should assess the need for additional training for staff due to the changes and whether further clarification of the Social Welfare Act is necessary in relation to the tasks of an older person's own worker. The committee also stated that it is necessary to assess whether the organisation of effective multi-professional service guidance and responding to the different needs of customers also require, for example, the registration of expertise in health care, rehabilitation or ageing in self-employed regulations. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that Parliament accept the Government's proposal for 218/2016 as an unaltered document, contained in 1st and 2nd paragraphs. a draft law. Two objections have been raised to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u150	Mr President! This government proposal therefore proposes to amend the Act on support for the functioning of the ageing population and the Act on Social and Health Services for the Elderly and the Act on Social Welfare. According to Article 10 of the current Act on Elderly Services, the municipality must have sufficient expertise to support the well-being, health, functional capacity and independent performance of the elderly population and to organise the quality of social and health services needed by older people. And we have to keep this for the rest of our lives. This specific expertise must include at least in the areas of well-being and health promotion, gerontological care and social work, geriatrics, medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. This has been considered necessary when the Act on Elderly Services was adopted and must continue to be maintained. However, the Government’s proposal in question proposes that this Article 10 on the expertise available to the municipalities of the Old Age Services Act should remove that list of professions for which the municipality should have access to specialist expertise. This proposal would therefore give municipalities greater discretion as to what expertise the municipality acquires and uses to organise services for the elderly and older people. Indeed, I believe that the list of professions for which the municipality should have special expertise should continue to be kept in the law. The change proposed by the government does not ensure an adequate, competent and high-quality level of care that takes account of the specific characteristics of the care of the ageing population. This change would make it possible for the skills specialised in the care of the elderly population to be reduced in municipalities, which would result in shortcomings both in individual forms of treatment and in a comprehensive set of care for the elderly population. The proposal also proposes that Article 17 on support for the functioning of the elderly population and the Act on social and health services for the elderly should be repealed. With the repeal of the article, a self-employed person for older people would be appointed under the Social Welfare Act in accordance with the regulation of all social care customers. After all, the responsible worker is currently provided for in Article 17 of the Elderly Services Act. In other words, the municipality must appoint an elderly person as a responsible worker if he or she needs assistance in matters relating to the implementation and coordination of services. And I think that, today and in the future, such a person is very, very necessary to make things easier for the elderly. In addition, this article provides for the duties and qualifications of the responsible worker. One of the tasks of the responsible worker is to monitor the implementation of the service plan of an elderly person and changes in service needs, to communicate with those responsible for organising the services and other bodies, if necessary. The responsible worker must be an appropriate professional within the meaning of Article 3 of the Act on Social Care Professionals or Article 2 of the Act on Health Care Professionals. As a result of the repeal of Article 17 of the Act on Social Services for the Elderly, the self-employed person of all older persons would be appointed in accordance with the social welfare regulations of the Social Welfare Act. However, this Article 42 of the Social Welfare Act does not fully provide for the duties of an employee, not in the same way as Article 17 of the Elderly Services Act. In spite of the fact that the proposal amends the eligibility requirements of a self-employed person under Article 42 of the Social Welfare Act to better meet the needs of both the elderly and other categories of customers, I believe that the appointment of a responsible worker to an elderly person should continue to be maintained in order to ensure the provision of expert care. This change would not be sufficient to meet the specific needs of older people. I am concerned about the government's approach and the resulting weakening of this particular care for the elderly. The quality of care and the specific characteristics of care for the elderly will be reduced by compromising special skills. Instead of the cost savings requested by the government, the change will increase the costs that will be incurred in the long term due to the loss of specific expertise. That is why I will propose in future that the proposal to amend Article 10 of the Act on services for the elderly and repeal Article 17 thereof be rejected, i.e. that the first draft law be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u151	Mr President! The Government intends to weaken the services of the elderly by deleting the section on the responsible worker in the care of the elderly and by removing the list of expertise that the municipality must have in the care of the elderly. In addition, the government had previously stated that it would reduce the quality recommendation for implementing the Act on Elderly Services by reducing the minimum number of nursing workers in enhanced service housing and in old age homes from 0.5 to 0.4 per elderly person being treated. The government has recently withdrawn this government programme entry but intends to continue to weaken, inter alia, by reducing the number of staff to be counted and by implementing the existing 70 million euro cuts. The Government's proposal to amend the Act on Elderly Services is part of the Government's programme of measures to reduce the tasks and obligations of municipalities. We ourselves are in favour of deregulation if we are dealing with so-called unnecessary standards, but in these respects we do not see that this is what is happening in this draft law. The Old Age Services Act has proved necessary. The background was a strong neglect of 24-hour care for the elderly a few years ago. Of the ten care units, nine had comments, which is why Parliament unanimously adopted the Act on Elderly Services, which entered into force in July 2013. The law has been in force for three years and, as a result of its entry into force, more attention has been paid to the status and improvement of older people. Based on the results of the surveys following the implementation of the THL and Valvira Act on Elderly Services, it has been possible to influence the correction of malpractices in the care of the elderly through national supervision and guidance. We consider these improvements to be important, but they are not enough. In no case has the situation improved with regard to care for the elderly so that more loose entries can be made in the law. The skills of elderly services must also be safeguarded. The proposal proposes that section 10 of the Act on the expertise available to the municipalities of the Old Age Service Act should be deleted from the list of professional sectors which are expected to be used by the municipality in the need for According to the list, there must be at least specific expertise in the fields of well-being and health promotion, gerontological care and social work, geriatrics, medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. The removal of the list would, according to the proposal, make it possible to better consider on a case-by-case basis what expertise the municipality would acquire and use to organise the services and assess the need for services. We cannot accept the weakening of expertise and we do not see the deletion of the list as a response to the challenges of older people's work. On the contrary, the need for listed skills is growing as the population ages and older people live longer and longer. Skilled and well-being personnel commit themselves to work and provide a guarantee and basis for high-quality and ethically sustainable social care. Therefore, the requirements for the competence of older people are calculated in practice, although good competence is a prerequisite not only for good management and a sufficiently diverse assessment of service needs, but also for good management and development of services, which, in turn, enable efficient, more cost-effective operations. This is also a prerequisite for the development of future services for the elderly, which we will have to do more in the future. In this saving decision, too, it seems strange because in early 2019, regional level organisers in line with the social welfare reform will in any case have access to the know-how in accordance with the list. Nor should the responsible worker of the elderly be removed. The proposal proposes that a responsible worker should be removed from the old-age service law, as the Social Welfare Act provides for a self-employed person. It has been argued that this will eliminate and reduce duplication and detailed regulation. This would reduce the administrative burden on municipalities and thus reduce the costs of organising services. However, the justification seems weak, since in any event, the service package would be examined for the elderly person in accordance with Article 15 of the Elderly Services Act, where the provisions of Article 36 of the Social Welfare Act would apply for other social care customers in the assessment of the need for services. The removal of the responsible worker is most affected by the most vulnerable lonely elderly. In particular, the authorities supervising the services of the elderly have expressed serious concerns about the right of the elderly to access services in the preparation of legislation and in the consultation of the committee's experts. For example, Valvira, the Social Welfare and Health Administration, in its own opinion, considers that there is no justification for abolishing the section on the responsible worker in the Act on Elderly Services. Mr Valvira points out that the appointment of a responsible worker to an elderly person promotes the rights of an elderly person to services and their follow-up. This will help to safeguard the rights of Article 19 of the Constitution. It is also important that the obligations of the Elderly Services Act are maintained now that the reform of social welfare and health care structures will significantly change the forms of organisation and production. This will best safeguard the rights of particularly vulnerable residents to adequate and appropriate services. In addition, it is proposed to amend the Social Welfare Act to allow a health professional to work as a self-employed person, provided that it is appropriate for the overall situation of the customer. We are also in favour of this. The government’s savings are costly in the long term. The government has dressed the cuts in services as the norm. The dismantling of standards is an attempt to create a progressive image, while cutting services seems to be a cold operation. However, the government is doing just the latter: it saves and cuts where it can. The expert consultation has reiterated the concern expressed in the Government's proposal that insufficient expertise is shown in assessing the service needs of an elderly person and in monitoring its implementation. This, in turn, may lead to the service need not being properly identified or answered. Insufficient evaluation of the service needs of an elderly person and the resulting inappropriate package of services lead to additional costs for municipalities in relation to the need for services. In Finland, the personnel size of elderly care has been lower than our Nordic neighbours, but the level of competence has been higher. The government is now cutting both of these. This is very short-sighted, because it is precisely the high level of competence that has secured the missing staff in many situations. Mr President! The government lacks the vision of elderly care. The positive thing is that the government is investing in informal care, but it may not replace these government cuts. Mr President! Finally. We require the government to withdraw its plans to reduce the quality and skills of elderly services. The old-age service law must be implemented consistently and not lower the level of care and care for the elderly, so at second reading we propose that, on the basis of the above, the 1st bill be rejected and 2. the draft law will be adopted in accordance with the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u152	Mr President! It is very good that we now have the opportunity to discuss this weakening of the old-age service law. There has been a lot of discussion now on the question of carerisation, but then these substantive and qualitative impairments, which are coming into the old-age service law, have been made less public. These removals of specialist experts and, on the other hand, the removal of managers are very insignificant savings amounts that have been thought of in the state budget. I recall the figure of 12.5 million in one and 15 million in the other. However, for example, removing such special medical skills from the workforce may lead to the failure to detect these elderly overmedicating situations and to falls and hip fractures and is noticed to be much more expensive in the end than what is imagined that these are seeking savings. It must therefore be borne in mind that in municipalities these special experts are generally not additional posts but have been considered that the team of employees has these qualifications, that is where all these are listed. As such, it is likely that even the savings that may be sought will not be possible, because these may be the people who are already in office, which means that the removal of them will not necessarily bring anything but that in the future, when we look at this situation again, these specialists will no longer be hired. Then this removal of the carer, the removal of the responsible worker: Especially the most infirm old man, the one who has the memory disorder and who is no longer able to look after his own affairs, the very person who is able to follow the development of his or her health, who is able to constantly consider whether he has all the services he is legally entitled to. It could be said that this saves the care of the most vulnerable people and the defence of their interests. In that sense, at second reading, we will be rejecting these points.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u153	Mr President! According to the current law, the municipality must have a wide range of expertise to sustain the well-being of the ageing population, at least in the areas of well-being and health promotion, gerontological care and social work, geriatrics, medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. Indeed, this list is now going to be abolished and it is estimated that some EUR 15 million will be saved. It is very difficult to understand how any savings can be made by removing these requirements for specific expertise. In my opinion, it is precisely the opposite. Is it not the case that more expertise is needed in the field of elderly work, such as that of gerontological and geriatric skills, so that the care and care of older people is effective, competent and of high quality? Similarly, in the forthcoming social welfare reform, a wide range of special skills for older people should be included in the legislation on both municipalities and regions, and not now that special expertise is being dismantled from here. At some point it has been said from the Ministry that this can then continue to work with the municipalities, but it has so far been. It has not been necessary for every small municipality to have knowledge of medical treatment or its geriatric skills, but municipalities, in cooperation with other municipalities, have been able to acquire it for use even one day a month. But now, no more days will have to be arranged. I do think that this is absolutely absurd, to be quite frank. In any case, we all know that the elderly population is growing and diversifying and, in particular, its diverse skills are needed from workers. Special expertise helps to ensure that care for older people is carried out appropriately, including through the rehabilitation of the labour force, which is also called for by the Act on the Elderly. It will also be cost-effective and effective work. I very much wished that this had been on the list of withdrawn government proposals, but unfortunately it now seems that Parliament, as a majority, will then adopt this. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u154	Mr President! It is easy to agree with what the previous speakers have said, and I would like to support Mrs Kiljunen's suggestion that the second draft law should be adopted in accordance with the committee's report, but that the first draft law should be rejected at second reading. I would like to add that it is strange, as it were, for an Orwellian neo-controversy to call the breaking of standards the conscious degradation of the quality of services for the elderly. Nor do I believe that this will be any savings in the final games. When skills are weakened in the services of the elderly, it also means losing the skills that currently provide more hands in such a way that work can be better organised, ensuring that leadership is good and that people's skills are in the right place. But when the quality of elderly services and the skills that the staff have in the services there are undermined, it is as if the vision of the whole and how to act at the same time more rationally, more cost-effectively and yet guarantee the quality of care and care is lost. I must say that I am terribly sad that it is only last season that the old-age service law is now being scrapped in this way when it is known that it has helped to improve the quality of care for the elderly, even though we know that there is still much room for improvement. But now we are really going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u155	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the Act on Elderly Services is part of the Government's programme of measures to reduce the tasks and obligations of municipalities. A reduction in regulation as such is justifiable if there are some unnecessary standards, but regulations made for the protection of vulnerable people cannot in any sense be regarded as unnecessary. The impairments now presented in the Old Age Services Act have a direct impact on the quality and availability of services for older people. Thank you to the government for cancelling the reduction in staffing, but at the same time it should also have withdrawn the reduction in professional requirements. In this proposal, it is proposed that Article 10 of the Act on the expertise available to the municipalities of the Old Age Services Act should remove the list of skills, i.e. specific expertise, which the municipality should have at its disposal. According to the list, there must be at least special expertise in the promotion of well-being and health, gerontological care and social work, geriatrics, medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. The removal of the list would, according to the proposal, make it possible to better consider on a case-by-case basis what expertise the municipality acquires and uses to organise the services and assess the need for services. I am Chairman of the Memory Federation, and the Memory Federation regularly conducts a so-called memory barometer with THL, which examines the quality of care for memory customers across Finland. The previous memory barometer was completed last spring and clearly indicated how varied the level of memory competence and care arrangements are across Finland, in different regions and municipalities. The treatment chains continue to break down all too often. The memory barometer, as well as many other studies, has highlighted the extent to which there are deficiencies in, for example, nutrition care, medical treatment, oral hygiene and rehabilitation. Mismanagement of these matters speeds up the progression of memory sickness and increases the need for help and reduces the chances of living at home. For example, an infection in the mouth caused by an untreated tooth can collapse the condition and feel almost completely, or wrong medication can take away the ability to walk and make a person with memory problems into a bed patient. These are just examples. Now that the law no longer requires special expertise from municipalities, there is a risk that in some municipalities and regions the quality of care will deteriorate and people will find themselves in unequal positions. As Chairman of the Memory Federation, I have to say that skills in all municipalities are not sufficient to assess skills needs, and it would therefore be so important to maintain the legal standard for these matters. The responsible nurse — or the self-care nurse, no matter what title is used — is an important provider of quality care. The psychophysical social needs of a person with memory disorders are so diverse that someone has to take overall responsibility for coordinating treatment. The responsible manager or self-care provider should always be chosen according to who professional is best placed to coordinate care in accordance with the needs of the customer. It is the memory nurse who is best suited to be responsible for a person with memory problems living at home. According to the memory barometer, there are already memory nurses in every municipality, but the resources of the work vary a great deal. In some municipalities the memory nurse’s title is mainly formal, so the memoryist does not have time to do the work that belongs to him well enough. Another problem is that there is currently no systematic training of memory carers, and this causes memory carers to have a very varied level of knowledge and knowledge behind their activities. In order to ensure good management of the memory customer, municipalities should have a network of memory experts arranged around the memory manager, which will be given sufficient resources to deal with customers. This would certainly save a lot of money, and this would enable many things to be done in a timely manner. There is nothing so expensive for a municipality and society as neglecting the early diagnosis of memory disorders, poor treatment and inadequate rehabilitation for people with memory disorders, and now I am afraid that these weakenings of the bill will weaken the situation across Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u156	Mr President! To a few more points, I would like to add to the confusion about this legislation. Firstly, I find it difficult to understand the logic of the government when the government insists that we should strengthen and develop the services of the elderly, but at the same time the government weakens the skills of older workers and, in particular, the geriatric skills which actually cross the entire chain of elderly services. In that regard, it could be assumed that, now that our great need is to develop services for the elderly, we should rather strengthen our skills and bring gerontological care and social work skills to all the different actors involved in the elderly. And in that respect, it will not add to the cost if we increase the level of competence of people working and do not increase the number of staff. The second thing that is really confusing is this removal of the responsible worker, in fact in three different areas. First of all, when we talk about a responsible worker, we have many people living alone, and the older the people, the more likely they are to live alone. Then they will be very much dependent on the commitment of our medical staff to their care and also on understanding and knowledge of their needs. In that sense, the role of this responsible worker in the care and lobbying of this individual elderly person, in legal protection, is an essential part of this whole. Mr President! Do you want me to come over? Just a little bit more. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : I would ask the speaker to continue with the speaker. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u159	Mr President! After Mr Kiljunen's speech, it is good to continue and it is great that there in Eksote we are strengthening the position of the workers who are really needed. I would have liked to say a few more words about the status of doctors. In other words, the doctor has many special areas that the doctor can specialize in, including geriatrics. Geriatria would never have been among the special sectors if it had not been seen to be in great need. We know that care for older people is very demanding, just because many people have very many different diseases, many medicines, and that health and well-being are often strongly affected by the environment in which the elderly live, the combined effects of medicines and so on. It is very important that, at a time when the care of the elderly is evaluated and care policies are carried out and the medication is also prescribed, it should be viewed by an expert in the field, in cooperation with the care team, with the experts in these different fields, because, as soon as we look at the situation carefully and comprehensively at the beginning, and we get the guidelines for both care and necessary support, it is certainly the best possible policy for the elderly and their care, well-being. And it is certainly also a policy that not only in the long term but very quickly will bring savings to society. And in view of the increasing number of older people, it is very important to look both at the welfare of the elderly and at the use of society’s resources, which is reasonable, and therefore the only right solution is not to do these weakenings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u160	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen did indeed make an excellent speech, reminding us just why we need to do these weakenings of the old-age service law, of course, preferably not at any point, but now that all this big social reform is ahead of us, it would make sense to see where these things are beginning to settle, before we start to cut down on these very numbers of responsible workers and the fact that this responsible worker is being shown above all. It is this fear that is now here, when these treatment chains are likely to split up even further with this social model, how will it be possible, in the case of that poor old man, to ensure that he receives its care and the very services he is intended and entitled to, if he does not have such a responsible worker? This was a very good thing that Mr Kiljunen raised this issue. If you think of the care of an elderly person, it should be precisely this whole thing that is being taken into account. There is the food, there is rest, just like all of us of different ages, there is the possibility of outdoors, exercise, and then especially this medication. This is what we constantly hear, those reports from the media that find that either the medication is over or there are completely incompatible medications for the elderly and so on. In that sense, the removal of these specialists also seems to be a very hasty measure. Somehow this old-age service law in general is a bit like this, could you say, KD's child. At the time of 2003-2007, when I was the chairman of the parliamentary group myself, I was the first to sign the first piece of old-age service law left by us by the group, you can say straight away, at that point. But it was the impulse. I remember that it was said from around the hall that something like this was probably needed in Finland, but until 2011 we had to live before we got to the government programme and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u161	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 23/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-29-ps-122.u162	Mr President! It seems that there is no one here from the Administrative Committee to present the matter, but I must say that I am behind this objection. As peculiar as the situation is, it is precisely the left side of the hall that is now defending the right of churches to receive compensation for these statutory duties, and this seems strange because the background is that purely due to the adjustment of central government finances, these index adjustments are now being cut, which were agreed at the time, however, in the agreement in which the church gave up this share of corporate tax revenue and received precisely this subsidy, which was promised to be linked to the index. The church has fulfilled these statutory obligations, but, unfortunately, the other party, the state, and then the government that sits down this time, has slipped out of this. In that sense, this report even raises this issue of freedom of religion, that is, the fact that, if you think that the opposite is religious freedom as a fundamental right and, on the one hand, the responsibility between two autonomous actors and the distribution of money, then the lack of state money is in no way a valid reason to go into the pockets of church members. That is what it means: if these statutory tasks are not replaced by that state purse, more and more will have to rely on the collections and donations of church members. In that sense, one could say that the other party has failed and has not adhered to what has been agreed together. In their own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have tabled an economic initiative in this regard, with which we would like to be able to replace this share. We think it's fair, it's fair. It is based on the agreement that has been reached in due course. At this point, we must hope that if there were to be any further transitions in the vote from the government parties, that they would feel justified in defending this issue.
