ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u1	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u2	Madam President! This Government proposal supports the objective of Sipilä's Government Programme to build public services digitally and user-orientedly. That's a good principle. This proposal will, inter alia, make vehicle registration procedures more efficient. In recent years, a number of tasks have been delegated to the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, and this proposal would also be used to concentrate transport registrations on Trafi in the future. Hopefully, Traf will also have the resources in the future to carry out all their tasks. In particular, it is important in this government proposal that the smooth transfer of information between different authorities is natural and takes place in a very smooth, characteristic manner. This exchange of information must, of course, also in the future ensure the legal protection of citizens as to what information is being transmitted there. Mr President! All in all, this government proposal must be supported and therefore specifically supports the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u3	Madam President! The Government Programme aims to build public services to be user-oriented and primarily digital in order to succeed in the productivity leap that is necessary for public finances. In this respect, the proposed amendments to the Vehicle Registration Act are very supportive of the Government Programme. Furthermore, the Government Programme aims to ensure that public administrations commit themselves to asking the same information to citizens and businesses only once, that is to say only once. This proposal promotes this principle. In addition, this bill also contributes to the Government Programme’s objective of a smooth transfer of information between authorities. Mr President! Information on the persons authorised by the notifier should therefore be stored in the vehicle transport register in the future. In such cases, registrations as authorised registrations could also be verified ex post where the registration has been carried out electronically or in the case of personal data without documents in situations where such documents are otherwise not required for personal data. This change would promote the use of electronic registration services and make registration more flexible and reliable for citizens. All of this is therefore very welcome. Furthermore, Mr President, the right to use image data recorded in the passport and identity card register on driving licences and other permits requiring a photograph would facilitate the applicant's business and reduce costs, as a separate image would not be necessary. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of variation in the price of passport images and in the number of images included in the price. On average, images are available at a price of around EUR 18 to 20. It is estimated that around 100,000 customers per year would be able to use image data on a driving licence or other licence. This would result in a total saving of approximately EUR 20 million per year for customers. Recording authorised data in the vehicle traffic register could increase the use of electronic registration services. This would facilitate the development of new electronic services and improve the efficiency of official work in the state administration. Furthermore, depositing authorised information would improve the reliability of registrations and registrations. All, therefore, welcome proposals aimed at promoting the ambitious digital reforms of this regime. Of course, there are shortcomings and there is a need to increase the level of ambition in the government's efforts to digitise – the most up-to-date of them, of course, the traffic cycle, where unfortunately there is still no consensus on the level of ambition. In addition, there are other areas for development, such as the fact that business Y-identifications are still not available online immediately. You would think it would soon be realism to listen, for example, to this government proposal before us. We could also consider extending the period of validity of the identity card and passport to ten years, with the encouragement of this proposal. Or we could consider electrifying the building permit process, for example. These reforms should not be too much either. Mr President! All in all, this proposal is a worthy proposal, but, as I described, there is still at least the same amount of work to be done in many other sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u4	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u5	Madam President! The Sipilä Government has indeed taken it upon itself to put Finland in order step by step. One important step in the right direction, perhaps the most important to date, is the social and competitiveness pact, which is known as labour profit. In fact, the Government's proposal 130, which is now in the referral debate, is based precisely on the package of the competitiveness pact negotiated by the social partners. The bill is therefore part of a wider package to make work and making work worthwhile. In this difficult economic situation, the government has had to take earlier many unpleasant surgical decisions regarding beneficiaries of various benefits. The fact is, however, that the better-off employees today often do not receive social benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution, for example. It is therefore essential, even in the interests of balance, that employees also contribute to the common objective. Madam President! Last week, Prime Minister Sipilä visited my hometown of Lahti to open a new production line for the Wipak packaging plant in the former municipality of Nastola. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Multi-Subgroup Wihur wanted to set up a new production line in Nastola, even though it would have been worth investing in the rest of Europe if it were just a business venture. Antti Aarnio-Wihuri, Chairman of the Board of Directors, reported in the local newspaper that wages in Finland are quite similar to those in the competitor countries, but the costs of the pay side increase significantly. However, the Wihuri Group wanted to support domestic employment, thanks to them. This partial transfer of earnings-related pension contributions from the employer to the employee is one concrete example of how, as a society, we can encourage companies to employ. The increase in the unemployment insurance premium will not be excessive for the individual, but the overall picture shows that the benefits for the enterprises that employ it will be significant. Madam President! With the measures taken by this government proposal, I will continue to throw the ball in the direction of employers. These measures must be reflected not only in excessive dividends and options. We must courageously venture to invest and recruit more workers. You have now been given the conditions for this. While the rest of the measures agreed in the Competitiveness Pact will be implemented, I dare to wait for Finland to finally move on to the much-speaked growth path.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u6	Madam President! In this Government proposal, the employee's earnings-related pension contribution will be increased and the employer's earnings-related pension contribution calculated, in total, by 1.2 percentage points. The employee's employment pension contribution would be increased by 0.2 percentage points in 2017 and 2018 and by 0.4 percentage points in 2019 and 2020. The Left Alliance does not share the Government's view of the Competitiveness Pact and the idea of running work for the medicine of the economic recession, and we will not support the adoption of this bill. The decline in tax revenue and the increase in unemployment-related expenditure have led to public sector debt. The State has responded to this by reducing expenditure and thus further reducing demand. The Competitiveness Pact reflects the Prime Minister The policy pursued by the Sipilä government to reduce employers' labour costs and reduce wages. In our view, these measures do not meet the expectations of the Competitiveness Pact. Lowering employers' wage costs will not solve the problems of the export industry in Finland in a situation in which the world economy is now in existence. The rise in the Finnish export industry depends on the quality of services and products and on the production of goods corresponding to demand. The lack of quality cannot be offset by low costs or low prices. Quality and innovation could be achieved by investing in high skills, education, product development and well-being at work. On the contrary, these long-term growth opportunities are cut by the government. Mr President! According to the explanatory memorandum of the Board of Directors, the employee pension contribution is estimated to increase by approximately EUR 160 million in 2017, by around EUR 320 million in 2018, by around EUR 670 million in 2019 and by more than one billion after the end of the transitional period in 2020. The average employment pension contribution for employers would be reduced by an equivalent amount. In 2017, the Board of Directors embraces and embraces employers in many ways: reductions in employers' pension contributions, unemployment insurance contributions and social security contributions, an extension of working time by 24 hours and zero increases reduce labour costs and facilitate all companies' costs. The most hard-hitting of all, the Competitiveness Pact treats public sector officials and employees. Public sector holiday payments will be cut by 30% for a three-year period. The operation is felt in the wallets of all public sector workers: carers, teachers, policemen and firefighters. The holiday allowance cut is particularly hard on low incomes. When the monetary value of the extension of working time is taken into account, a competitiveness agreement for a family day nurse amounts to a loss of earnings of approximately EUR 98, for a real estate manager EUR 112, for a chef EUR 116 and for a related nurse EUR 134 per month, and these are very large sums for low-income people. Mr President! Government policy is not a necessity; it is a choice of values, a cold and poor choice. The operating line crushes the basic pillars of our society, the spirit of the collective carbon blowing based on high knowledge, equal public education, health and care services and trust. The alternative would now be to stop and look at the long-term sustainability of the economy and really think about what kind of society we want to build in Finland. The work of public sector workers in health care, care for the elderly, care for children and so on is absolutely essential if we want our country to succeed in the future. An unfair cutting policy does not show appreciation for these people and does not increase people’s well-being or motivation at work. As a result, some workers will surely go abroad to seek appreciation. Many are pushed into uncertainty and difficulties in making a living. This is not a sensible policy and it is not right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u7	Madam President! Congressman Pekonen has now rigged the target of his verbal cannon incorrectly. In fact, Mr Pekonen accused the government of cutting the holiday money for public sector workers. Congressman Pekonen, this is not a government decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u8	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz is making some sense. He calls for everyone, including those on high incomes, to take part in these efforts if such financial means are needed. But, Mr Zyskowicz, we must remember what all this is about, where we started when the competitiveness pact was negotiated. There was no fair negotiating position, but the government had made its own proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u12	Madam President! I understand very well that the Left Alliance is not in favour of a competitiveness pact, and that is your own solution. But the decision to cut the holiday money for only public sector employees, while the holiday money for private sector employees is not touched, was not made by the government of the country, but by the labour market organisations. When Mr Pekonen referred to forced laws and the government of the country, it is true that the whole process and the whole agreement would not have been created without pressure from the government. But for its part, the government set targets for improving Finland’s cost competitiveness. The Board of Directors did not decide on the different components of the agreement. Consequently, the decision to cut the public sector holiday money was not a decision by the government but by the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u13	Let us now return to the list of speakers and to the debate again, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u14	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit unfortunate that this kind of confrontation between companies and workers is being created, especially from the left side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u17	Let us now take a few speeches from that list and then continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u18	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people! This government proposal under discussion relates to an agreement on competitiveness in the labour market. The aim of the agreement is to improve Finland's cost competitiveness and thus create more economic growth and employment in this country. How many new jobs will the Competitiveness Pact create in this country in the next few years? Of course, no one can give precise figures in advance, but the estimates that have been made move around 20,000 and 40,000 jobs. Is there any guarantee that this competitiveness pact, which improves cost-competitiveness, will actually create new jobs, thousands of new jobs in this country? Opponents of the Treaty, such as the Left Alliance, are happy to say that they do not believe that this agreement, which of course also has negative aspects for workers and employees, will lead to an increase in employment. However, I have to say that I do not know of Finland, nor of Europe, nor of the world, any economist who would disagree with the fact that an improvement in the cost competitiveness of the country will lead to an increase in employment. If, for example, Mr Pekonen or someone else in the Left Alliance knows such an economic expert who does not believe in this equation, then I would be happy to hear about this person and his studies. In other words: I understand that there is a very broad consensus among economic experts that, when cost competitiveness improves, it will also lead to an increase in employment. Of course, to what extent, in what time period and in what other circumstances it is affected, there are issues on which there is disagreement, but when it comes to this example, I do not think there is any disagreement: the agreement is working positively to improve employment. That is why this agreement has been concluded on the labour market and, for my part, I think that the social partners in Finland deserve to know that the agreement has been concluded, although, of course, it contains a lot of details that one or another does not like. I have already mentioned this reduction in holiday money only for public sector workers. Of course, if it was seen necessary to intervene in holiday money, it would have been fairer and fairer for holiday money to have been cut across the whole line, for example, as agreed today, 30 % over 30 years. But what is essential, Madam President, is that this competitiveness pact alone is not, of course, sufficient to achieve the ambitious employment objective set by the government. After all, the government is seeking an employment rate of about 72%, some 110,000 new jobs, and today's estimates are such that the decisions now taken, the solutions now in the pipeline, will perhaps achieve more than half of this objective. This brings us to the need for new measures, new decisions from the government to improve employment, and of course the improvement in employment will also contribute to the government's key objective of improving the balance of public finances. Thus, in a recent budget debate, the government took new decisions to promote employment. We have already had some discussion here about improving the efficiency of labour market policies. We have discussed tax solutions that improve the taxation of both employees and entrepreneurs, and there was, among other things, a so-called housing package, which was also the subject of decisions. In addition, the government provided solutions for tripartite preparation aimed at creating 10,000 new jobs, including through the development of earnings-related unemployment benefit and the use of earnings-related unemployment benefit as a wage subsidy or start-up grant or other forms of active employment. I think it is good to note — and I hope that Mr Terho and his parliamentary group have also noticed this — that the government has committed itself in the budget debate to the fact that, according to the best estimate by the Ministry of Finance, this further work, which has been put into tripartite preparation, should produce some 10,000 new jobs, or perhaps, to be more precise, the employment of 10,000 people. In other words, the government is jointly committed to this, and we in the government parties, in all three, assume that once we have committed ourselves to this, the government, together with the social partners, will hopefully find solutions to achieve this objective. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would also like to say about this local agreement. It is not a magic trick to improve employment, but it is one way of promoting employment, as has been seen in a great many European countries such as Finland. That is why I consider it necessary that, once the competitiveness pact has ceased to exist, i.e. after 17, a return to local agreement will be made and this will be done by the government, preferably in broad agreement with the various parties, and will also be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u19	Madam President! The Competitiveness Pact and the legislation currently under discussion: I have to agree with Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Heinonen that it is right that workers should be taxed less. Growth is happening, it is true, but what is promoting it at the moment? As regards the direction of the Coalition Party, it is suggested that when this tax is reduced, it will sustain domestic growth. Myllykoski is not the expert and does not know an expert who would argue that lowering wage costs would not create competitiveness. I'm sure it is. But when it comes to taxing this matter, the people who are forced to maintain their own standard of living and feed their families, to medicalize, to live and to clothe themselves with all the so - called consumption money are currently being cut the most, which stops the very fact that our domestic markets are pulling. Our services sector, which would be the area of new innovation in international exports, cannot develop positively, at least at home, if it is the sector that is being cut from those people who spend almost everything on consumption and then take on the support of our society, either from the municipalities or from the state. In this situation, we are now subjecting people to more subsidies as people's purchasing power decreases. So, with the other hand, we come to the pockets of society, while, on the other hand, we say how well the tax solution now brings more purchasing power. It is a sham, and I think it would be intellectual honesty to recognise that low-paid public workers are losing out with this solution. I would like to stress once again that the Left Alliance does not really want to dispute the negotiating mandate that belongs to the social partners, which is based on the principle of tripartiteity, which, fortunately, this government has taken its part as a practical instrument of play and now still wants to see employment developed so that the social partners are part of the solution and not just bring everything under duress. The trilogue must be appreciated: it is part of the preservation of social peace, it is a culture of negotiation which can also promote solutions in difficult situations in this country, and in that sense it is an important mechanism. In this respect, when Mr Zyskowicz raised the objectives of the local agreement, we certainly have the opportunity to develop it, but we must see that, when the German model is presented easily in this debate, the German model does not mean that the SME entrepreneur has the opportunity to agree with his staff or that there is a crisis clause that triggers the possibility that a company, which is in a bad economic situation, could use the economic situation to calculate the wages of its employees. There is not one or two small entrepreneurs or SMEs who have come to say that you, Jari, will not accept such a system that creates a market failure between companies. It is not possible for an entrepreneur who makes an offer that is too cheap to take off to win it and in six months' time to say that it is now, you know, boys and women, that we have to lower our salaries so that this company doesn't fall down. We cannot have the possibility in this country that a single unorganised employee takes responsibility for local settlements on his own cash bag. We must have a system that guarantees equal opportunities for employers and workers to negotiate and a solution to disputes, in which the worker's representative also has access to legal aid and legal protection from his union, so that the individual worker who may agree on behalf of other workers is not held liable for the fact that local settlement is unlawful. If we want such broad negotiating rights to be given, that no legislation has any meaning, then we are certainly far from being able to build this country together. I appreciate those entrepreneurs who show their books and order books to the employees and say: we are in this situation, what do we do? It will lead to a genuine, open culture of local reconciliation, but, in this situation, local agreement will mean that both parties must have equal opportunities for negotiation. Mr President! It was almost like I didn't get excited. I'm done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u20	All right, now's the time to ask for answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u21	Mr President! I think it is a good thing that a labour market solution has been found in the country, where the most important part is that companies have this pay line now in place, and this labour market organisation agreement also fulfils all the old characteristics of the agreement. It's being criticized by a lot of sides. However, when Mrs Zyskowicz and Mr Heinonen went to the toilet to gargle those who make critical points about this, I have to say that the criticism from the left side of this Chamber is still a little bit of a scribble compared to how the members of Parliament of the Government Party, Mr Lepomäki and Mr Vartiainen, have broken this agreement. So does the government even have its own lines in this? Restomäki has said that this is a step in the wrong direction. We just got word from Zyskowicz that this is in the right direction. Well, in this situation, the SDP would have introduced these EMU buffers for occupational pension contributions, which would have made it easier to buy and also to improve the situation of companies. As far as the tax line is concerned, the problem is that now this government tax line favours high incomes and does not favour low and middle incomes, although it has been promised otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u22	Madam President! I did not praise the details of this agreement. I'm sure they can be criticized. It is an agreement between the social partners, and I applauded the fact that it was good for them to reach an agreement and to make this decision. That is what I applauded in my own speech, that is, I fully supported the fact that, if the workers and employers so decided together, then it is good that politicians and parties are also there to support it when they have made this decision. Surely, if the coalition had made a decision or another party alone, different types of decision would certainly have been made. Certainly the local arrangement would have been more strongly involved in the co-operative model and many others. But, above all, I am concerned that we have too many difficult years of the economy behind us. We are in debt, unemployment is getting worse, and now all we need is measures to get more work, jobs, growth in this country. It is only through this that we can save this welfare society and, on the other hand, give those unemployed people a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u23	Mr President! In many speeches, it is well said that the competitiveness pact will improve the price competitiveness of companies and create jobs, as Mr Zyskowicz estimates between 20000 and 40000 new jobs. However, I am surprised if local nurses in those municipalities are informed that working hours will increase by 24 hours without raising the annual earnings level and that the holiday money will be cut by 30%. As I said, it is about EUR 134 per month for local nurses. I do not believe that Finland will rise by lowering these salaries. I have received many messages from the staff there that these activities would be quite understandable if these saved money were to be used to hire additional care staff for day care or care for the elderly. But what is this government doing? It is precisely the reduction of staff in these areas, the reduction of staff, the reduction of holiday allowances, the extension of working hours. I would like to ask the government representatives again,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u25	Madam President! Indeed, if we want this Finland to lift out of the swamp of the recession, we will have to improve our competitiveness. After all, it is basically up to us whether our export industry operates, whether we have events in the ports, whether ships export Finnish products to the market, from which money is raised to Finland. We have lived for quite a long time in recent years because domestic demand has worked well. You can't blame it, but it's fading, too. There are clear signs of this, because the cash flow from abroad from export revenue, which will come to Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u26	Madam President! I have to say to Mr Hoskonen that yes or no and always backwards. There is a different view on each issue. However, it must be noted that in Finland jobs are created specifically in the SME sector. The SME sub-contracting network, which enables our locomotive companies, the export industry to be on the market, is significant. But we have to remember which of these most difficult tax planners we have. They can be found in these very locomotive companies, which, on the basis of unscrupulous trades between subsidiaries, export tax revenue from this country. I have talked to a few entrepreneurs, and they say that they are afraid when this kiky comes into force, because since they start the negotiations that now that you get three days' cheaper jobs for your men, because it is shown in their prices that they get three days' lower prices for this product. This is what is not being discussed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u27	Madam President! The Competitiveness Pact was indeed a central objective of the government and it succeeded, was born, and it created peace of work for a long time and quite clearly brought confidence to society as a whole. The results are now starting to show, including the SME Barometer today. The fact that the content of the agreement is as it is bears 100% responsibility for the social partners, and I too am surprised that this reduction in the amount of public holiday money was so raw there. True, that was not the goal of the True Finns. The aim was to have a fair, reasonable solution, but that was the case, and that is by no means the fault of the government. The Government will act to save Finland's economy and employment with determination in accordance with the Government's programme. This was a central part of it, and now we are on the right track, the rise has clearly begun.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u28	Mr President! Somehow I recall that there the government's offer of compulsory legislation included, among other things, a cut in Sunday and overtime pay, a medical fine, an extension of working time, a cut in holiday money. That's the recipe for the government, that's the laws behind it, as we remember. But here we were talking about debt and reference was made to the fact that we can't go into debt. Indeed, it has now gone wrong on the government's part, that the government does not take less debt, but even more debt. It was very confusing, and we came to that conclusion when we looked at these government value choices in terms of taxation, which is below the line for anyone, that debt is apparently being increased because it is precisely to give tax reductions to the most well-off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u31	Madam President! Someone wise has said that we have the right to our own opinions, but we do not have the right to our own facts. So I would like to say to you, for example, Mrs Myllykoski and Mr Pekonen, that it is quite a fact, a sure fact, that the fact that holiday money was only being cut from public workers was not decided — believe me now — by the government of the country, but by the social partners. This is a fact. If you deny this fact, then now give some support to this denial. After that, we may have our own opinions on whether this was good or bad and whether it should have been done in some other way, but I do not think that it would be worthwhile to continue the debate in this Chamber and in public that the government has cut the holiday money for women-dominated public sector workers in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u32	Madam President! In this case, in the presence of all my colleagues, I will not deny that fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u33	Madam President! This proposal is an important part of the competitiveness pact and deserves to be commended. A remarkable achievement from the government. I will return to Mr Pekonen's first speech, in which you criticised the quality of Finnish work and Finnish export products. I would like to say that the problems of Finnish exports are certainly not due to the quality, but, for example, to the comparison made recently by the EU Commission, which examined 3500 different Finnish export products, it was found that we were the top caste in the EU countries, number one there. I am surprised how you do not trust the quality of Finnish work and Finnish products, because at the same time you express your distrust of the Finnish employees who manufacture these products and so many of them vote for them. I am surprised at this attitude.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u34	Mr President! Mrs Kärnä needs to be corrected so much that at no time did I question the quality of the Finnish export industry, but I specifically called for more innovation and investment in higher knowledge. I believe that no one who manufactures export industries and builds new innovations in this country has any desire not to invest in quality in the future. After all, the government is now cutting hard on these very things: quality, product development and innovation. There will also be a need for investment in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u35	Madam President! It is true that we must also take care of our innovations in the future and in the future, but when those means are not just the right ones for this very moment. We need action right now, and if those unit labour costs are too high, that means that unfortunately, many times our export prices are too high, which means that we do not have export products, there are no export companies, there are no export places, there are no tax money. Only when we have this tax money and the cake grown will we then be able to hire more of the public service managers that Mr Pekonen called for. But in this order, we are forced to take these measures, here and now, so that we can get unit labour costs down and thus regain competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u36	Mr President! I must now address Mr Heinonen, who is marketing this entrepreneurial reduction in support of small entrepreneurs. It will benefit the richest personal entrepreneurs. In terms of quantity, more would be small entrepreneurs, such as 10,000 barbers and many others, for whom the benefits of a hundred or two are high. However, the majority, the majority, the tens of millions, of the 130 million jackpots end up in the highest income categories. In other words, pharmacies, lawyers and doctors are already wrapping up the extra money of several thousand euros on their large incomes. The average pharmacist receives an additional EUR 5700 per year. Are they the most distressed in society — or are they the beneficiaries of friend capitalism? If aid is to be targeted specifically at small enterprises, that money should be invested in raising the lower VAT duty limit, as the SDP has suggested as an alternative, from EUR 10000 to EUR 30000. It would really help small businesses, barbers and hairdressers, and would not make an expensive apothecary deduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u37	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz has already very well corrected this, so the government is not cutting the holiday money for the public sector. And when there are no Greens here, I hope they are not at the market to deliver this message, but are told honestly what this is all about. It would certainly have been good enough for the government to have been able to cut holiday money from everyone or to make other decisions. The government took the package as agreed by the employees and employers themselves. There were no changes. It was just as the employees and employers themselves agreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u40	Mr President! Oh, this handwashing here for the government parties. When the Minister of Labour said in this Chamber only a short time ago that he was prepared to bring in a compulsory law that forced the deduction of holiday money, But now the fundamental question here is: what are the government's own actions? We have now been hearing for many months that when the government brings in these tax reductions, which, among other things, now compensate for these payments here, they are targeted at those on low and medium incomes — but this is not the case. The greatest benefit of this government's tax line will be reaped by the most high-income ones, as we have heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u41	Madam President! With regard to the attitude of the Assembly towards the Competitiveness Pact, the Assembly supports this Competitiveness Pact. It is true that it binds the hands of the government in some respects, and it is true that there was no progress in local agreement, and it is also true that there are members in the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, such as Mr Lepomäki, who have taken a negative view of this agreement. As far as Mr Lindtman's reflection on tax reductions is concerned, the decision made in the competitiveness agreement, due to the tax deductibility of these payments, reduced the tax burden on those on good income, and the government's own solution to the situation so that the government's own solution is geared towards low and medium incomes - this is perhaps a little trickery, so it is fair to say that evenly for all
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u42	Madam President! Mr Myllykoski called here for the morals of the parties and for the recognition that this agreement is extremely burdensome. The competitiveness pact is very difficult for many sectors, it can be said quite clearly, and it has been said. We very much appreciate the fact that the entire Finnish labour market field is now jointly carrying a burden in this difficult economic situation. Of course, Mr Myllykoski's speech should also have focused on the major problem of unemployment. And as has been pointed out here in the debates, our problem is that our exports are not pulling. Unfortunately, our export industries are rather narrow if we compare them to the neighbor of the West. Now, the purchasing power that still exists in this country, however, the government is trying to help for so long that we can get its exports back on track, and that is what this is all about. This is about employment and improving it. I hope you're interested in that, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u43	Madam President! I hope this does not come as a surprise, but I am more than interested and I am willing to do more than you think it would be good for a Finnish SME entrepreneur, who is the potential employer in this country, to employ the first foreign worker or to employ 200 days of unemployed or under 25 years of age or 30 years of age, to have just completed a degree. A year ago, in my own initiative, the Left Alliance has proposed that, in the first year, an entrepreneur who hires an employee from this target group should receive 100% exemption from social contributions — I do not want to use the word'side costs', because social contributions pay for pensions, accident insurance and so on — 70 % and then 30 % in the following year. This would be cost-neutral for the state, a completely free way. I hope the government will catch this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u44	Madam President! In spite of the details, however, the government must be absolutely grateful for this big picture and satisfied with this capable government, which also involved the entire country's social partners in these joint efforts, so it is also thanks to the social partners. And now the situation is a little better: compared to one year ago, there are now 30,000 more jobs. You have to be happy to say it, too. And we must remember that the best way to manage employment is to preserve jobs and, above all, to create new ones, and that is why our employment and entrepreneurship packages are a very good way of doing this. I'm sorry about the women's position. It must be remembered, however, that the government, at last and finally the one-off payment for the cost of this EUR 2500 parenthood, is the question of eternity, which has now been largely resolved. And we must now remind the social partners that the best support for women is equal pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u46	Madam President! Forced laws, a social agreement, a competitiveness pact — I think there are terms in it that the unemployed do not need. The unemployed need a job, and each of us in this Chamber understands that it is much more than that job for the unemployed. But how did it come to the fact that 30 percent of the public holiday money leaves, that the probation period is extended from 4 to 6 months, that the readmission obligation is reduced from 9 to 4 months, and that those already in employment are working 24 hours more on the same salary? These measures, the good government, were only made through your forced legislative proposals. Then I wonder how all those things I have mentioned actually improve employment. In Mr Kulmun's view, they will probably improve as the government sees these measures as contributing to the employment of the long-term unemployed and lowering the threshold for employment. But I dare to disagree with many unemployed people that they do not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u47	Madam President! The fact that public holidays were being cut is not at all due to so-called coercive plans. Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, under the leadership of the Social Democratic Minister for Finance and the Minister for Labour, Finland was in debt, the public sector was in debt, about EUR 9 billion every single year. Unemployment rose by 100,000. Gross domestic product fell for three years in a row and competitiveness was very poor. Is this how we could have continued? It would have been completely irresponsible. That is why savings, labour market reforms and major structural reforms were needed in the Government Programme and are being carried forward, and that is how Finland will be saved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u48	Mr President! To begin with, I would recommend to Mr Kankaanniemi that the facts be checked. This government in both its budget lines is taking on more debt than it was in the previous government term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u53	Madam President! This debate has shown in concrete terms that we are moving very far away from the subject itself, but still sticking to the big issue. In other words, when we want to put this Finnish economy in order, that means, of course, quite tough measures, because we are deep in debt. That is an indisputable fact. We have over 300,000 unemployed, and there are a huge number of problems across Finland. You can't survive this disease with small drugs. So I am a little surprised that every time something is done, everything has gone wrong, however, in the view of the opposition. Of course, it is up to the opposition to question, but there are many, many good things here, and I would like you to put forward just a few sensible options, because we have to get more work in this country, more pay for people and, above all, that we are gradually able to pay those debts. To live on that debt, people, don't count any more. It won't take many years for the interest rate to go up, and that day we'll be in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u54	Madam President! Representative Taimela spoke of certain weaknesses in the working life of workers. We must also remember that these are obstacles to the employment of entrepreneurs and businesses. There are actually three things that come over the rest of the world when you're in those turbulent and squares. The first is the dismantling of bureaucracy, which we are trying hard to do. Of course, ambition should be raised. Secondly, this protection against dismissal and the obligation to take back, which I think is being moderately put in the direction that employment will be possible in the future. And thirdly, these side costs, which are now included in this kiky package. All these measures are in the right direction. Whether these are enough after all remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u55	Madam President! Representative Taimela asked about how this competitiveness pact will now improve employment and export opportunities. It will improve in such a way that we are now coming after Germany and Sweden once and for all as to how much a product costs here and what sort of things we can trade to the world. Of course, it's a big picture. This competitiveness pact alone will not solve this whole situation, and the social democrats will be aware of it when, for example, during the previous period there was a rather significant corporate tax reduction, which was intended to achieve employment in Finland in the same way. However, it is a great thing to note that the social democrats obviously also support the fact that, in September, we are now, on a tripartite basis, renegotiating and trying, for example, to make earnings-related more available as a start-up grant for a company or as a wage subsidy. Well, I hope there's a common interest in this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u56	Madam President! Here's the answer: the SDP is known to take less debt than the government takes, and the SDP is known to take less debt because we are proposing employment measures here and now. Our option would have been to temporarily reduce TEL charges — to help both employees and employers — that is to say, the EMU buffers, the slope model. We have concrete proposals to support entrepreneurs, the export package, support for investments, including home schools and home-day homes. And indeed, the government's answer is: tax cuts for the good people. I repeat, Mr President: I appreciate the fact that Mr Zyskowicz here has just admitted honestly that the fact is that these tax reductions, which the government itself is doing, are in practice in favour of high incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u57	Mr President! There is talk of debt-taking here, and it is true that unemployment benefits are paid in Finland almost as much as government debt is taken out every year. Mr Hoskonen called for more jobs, but in fact extending working time will lead to an increase in unemployment in the state and municipalities. And now a lot of people have been laid off at universities, and the next step is vocational schools. But this has been said many times, representative. Even there, my corner declared that new jobs will be created, and I still want to ask, although there is no minister here: now that this competitiveness pact is progressing and the really low-paid, female-dominated sectors of the public sector are being cut back on holiday money, increasing working hours, so what jobs will these measures provide, how many new jobs, and where will they be created?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u58	Madam President! No one has denied that the government put pressure on the labour market to achieve the kind of social agreement it was called at the time, which will improve our cost-competitiveness. But once again I have to spell it out: the government never left, for example, the public sector, which is known to have lower wages than the private sector, with more women working than in the private sector. This is not what the government demanded. It was right to tell what the government had in relation to sick days and other things, and the government even flashed about shortening the longest holidays in the public sector, but the solution that only public sector holiday money is being cut was the social partners, believe me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u59	Madam President! I do not want to quote the creed here, but I do believe it and I have admitted that this is what has happened. But here you can see this coalition rhetoric that, when you want even more for the owners and the owner class, these cuts should definitely also have been directed to the private sector, so that entrepreneurs and those export companies could have been given even more. Now it is a question of value choice, which struggle is being fought here too. It is now a matter of employees' organisations not agreeing to the solution of direct transfers of income to employers, which the government has already done with its own powers. Neither employees' organisations nor employers' social partners were forced to melt down so that this situation and the world view in this society were distorted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u60	Then back to that list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u61	Madam President! The amendment to the pension laws under discussion is part of the government’s policy to improve competitiveness. So it is not a question of coercive action, but of an agreement between the social partners, which is very much in line with what the government wants, where this country is being developed and created and gradually getting out of the recession. We have had a terrible fact before us for years and years: our export industry is not drawing. Export statistics per year, one month per month are still worse. And this knows that more and more people are going to be unemployed, because this country is living on the foreign trade that Finland is currently going through with our trading partners. It is unfortunate that in the Member States of the European Union, which are our main markets — Germany, France, the British and then, of course, our western neighbour Sweden — there is also some recession going on that we cannot sell our own products there, but we have managed to do something, and the little one is in sight of improvement. The government of Prime Minister Sipilä aims to bring the debt in this country under control by 2022 at the latest. Every Member of Parliament should remember today and tomorrow morning that interest is not always low on the market. At the moment, the interest rate market in Europe is, I might say, a time of zero interest, even though the European Central Bank dumps EUR 80 billion on the market every month for government bonds and spends the money it dumps on the purchase of corporate bonds. In other words, the situation is clearly ill and I would like Parliament to take this into account. The time for low interest rates will end one day, and this is how a indebted country when Finland is, we are very suddenly in a very difficult situation, much more difficult than it is at present. A job is vital to every person, that is clear. Through the workplace comes the social environment in which a person lives, earns a living and is well. It is also absolutely essential for his pension provision. From the point of view of public finances, tax revenue depends precisely on jobs, and can we then provide people with the services that we necessarily need on a day-to-day basis? For any person who becomes unemployed, it is a tragedy of his own kind and a very serious one. The Finnish Parliament must ensure that genuine jobs in this country start to be created and not just here in the big cities, which unfortunately seems to be the trend of time at the moment, but also in rural areas where the potential of the bioeconomy exists and many, many other things. By the way, we are currently in the process of creating a system in Finland — by concentrating everyone here in cities — where, for example, through housing subsidies, we are paying huge sums that go completely wrong. However, when the country is the least populated country in the European Union, it could be developed not only by large cities but also by Finland. Madam President! One more look at what the implementation of this competitiveness pact in this country is now. Is this a disaster or not? In the early 1990s, when Finland was in the grip of a major recession, very drastic decisions were made. In 91 C.E., at the time of the Aho government, first a devaluation of 12.3% was carried out in November and then the mark was floated on September 8, 1992. Their combined effect on the currency was about 40 per cent, i.e. the value of the Finnish markka fell by about 40 per cent, which, compared to this competitiveness agreement, was a huge, huge thing. We here are arguing about a few per cent without seeing how, at the beginning of the 1990s, the economy of this country was put in order. It was a real worm shower. It is a matter of potato chips only, which is what we are dealing with here. These figures, as is now the case with this proposal, the competitiveness pact, are small children's games compared to that of the early 1990s. That was really rough. And then, do these worm showers work? Well, Finland has once experienced it and knows it works. Unfortunately, it also creates very unpleasant stories, but it was the only option in Finland at the time. In accordance with the German model: After all, Germany has done the Hartz reform in the early 2000s, in 2003 and 2005. Under the leadership of Peter Hartz, this reform was planned, and German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder took it through and put the German economy in order. It was then said that Germany was a sick man in Europe. What about today? These measures made the German labour market more flexible. At present, Germany is Europe's leading economic country on all sides and is very strong in its economy. It would be good for us parliamentarians to remember that nothing is born in this country or in any country unless the right decisions are taken. And when you're in a difficult situation, you have to make those decisions, because that indecision is the weakest option for everyone — always. So I would like to see a little more understanding and, above all, an analytical debate in the Finnish Parliament on this issue. If we take a little detail, everyone can probably argue to the next world wart whether it was right or wrong. But if this big line is forgotten, then at the end of the road there is the end of the Finnish economy, and I am absolutely sure that no one in the Finnish Parliament wants it either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u62	Madam President! I am absolutely in favour of reducing the payment obligations of the entrepreneur and dismantling the regulation that prevents employment. Now that there has finally been a upward turn in the economy, this present presentation does not quite open up against it. Competitiveness will be improved, but purchasing power will be cut. The products are made competitive, but the buyer is strangled. I think it is bad that, in this proposal, these reductions for entrepreneurs are levied on the employee. This cuts the purchasing power of the citizens, the very only resource at the moment that supports the Finnish maiden in her spirit. This can't be considered reasonable. Is it true that the government can find no other way to save these savings than the employee's shopping bag? A good government, a very open, uncompromising question for you: would this temporary reduction in TEL payments have been such a bad option? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Could it not be raised to the debate rather than take away this last purchase euro?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u63	Madam President! This has now been tried for many years on whether billions of subsidies to businesses will bring jobs. We remember a EUR 1 billion Kela reduction, a brisk corporate tax reduction, many other benefits even before the current government's friend capitalism, and they have been implemented in good faith. And yes, the Social Democrats too have wanted to believe that improving the competitiveness of businesses will bring prosperity and jobs. Unfortunately, the results are not convincing. Finland’s largest companies have reduced tens of thousands of jobs and intend to continue along the same path. At the same time, dividends are distributed more than ever. Therefore, the transfer of income from employees to companies' cashiers is not fair and compensation for it through tax reductions leads to budgetary difficulties, increases the general government deficit and increases the need for debt. In the alternative budget, the Social Democrats proposed a fairer option: a temporary reduction in occupational pension contributions from both employees and employers. At the same time, the net income and purchasing power of employees would have increased, while the costs of employers would have decreased. The intention would be to return to the normal situation as soon as growth is on the move, within three years at the latest. Unfortunately, the government did not take this proposal to drive. Now, money is being transferred from taxpayers' pockets to businesses. Let us hope that past unpleasant experiences now prove false. The Competitiveness Pact increases the payment burden for low incomes and facilitates the taxation of high incomes. It is absolutely essential that the government's tax line reverses this unfair situation. Small and medium-income earners must benefit more, especially in order to compensate for the loss of holiday money, and those with high income who have not otherwise participated in the kiky-hanks or any of the projects do not need an additional euro. So it is not enough for all categories of income to receive the same tax reductions as the joint result of the kiky agreement, but rather to increase the purchasing power of people with low and middle incomes more than those with high incomes. Pensioners pay higher taxes than employees, contrary to what the Coalition Party promised before the elections. Now the government promised pensioners the same tax relief as employees. We look hard at whether the promise will be fulfilled or whether the tax gap will grow further. However, the current government action does not correct the previous mistake, but a middle-income pensioner currently pays EUR 250 more tax per year than the one with the same wage income. This injustice was corrected by the SDP in its alternative budget and corrected again this year. Do you promise that the tax differential between a low- and middle-income pensioner and an employee will not increase? Can we promise that? And then to this so-called entrepreneurship reduction. That is where I tried to prove, and I think I managed to prove that it was a failure and an injustice. No one even tried to defend it in their replies. Sounds pretty shameless. I repeat that most of the recipients of the entrepreneurship reduction are small entrepreneurs, such as 10,000 barbers and a large number of farmers, for whom a hundred, two have a great and significant benefit. But the majority, the majority, the many tens of millions, of the 130 million subsidies are going to end up elsewhere, to the highest income groups, namely pharmacists, lawyers and doctors, who are now wrapping up the extra money of several thousand euros on their big incomes. Are they now the most distressed in society? Is this how employment will be increased? Come on. This is a gift from the center and the coalition to their own interest groups, friend capitalism. But if we are to target aid specifically for small businesses, that money should be invested in raising the lower VAT threshold, as the SDP has suggested as an alternative. There's always a choice, and that's what we're gonna do. The EUR 10000 threshold would be raised to EUR 30000, which would actually help those small companies, barbers, and would not make this expensive pharmacy deduction. It should be recalled that the Minister for Finance Mrs Rinne raised this VAT limit to this current level, which Mrs Heinonen also warmly thanked. Now is the time to take a step forward. Well, even Mr Heinonen flashed this alvial line now, but the cost is also moving in hundreds of millions. I wonder, then, how much taxpayers' money the assembly actually has in use. We in the SDP feel responsible for the state economy, and we therefore propose this as an alternative to this endless waste of money, which will only make the state's debt worse, even if people reduce their salaries. Finally, Mr President, people are prepared to compromise if public services are secured, but no one understands that the poor are being cut off and then the money is transferred to rich friends and the deficit and debt are getting worse. Explain this to the public if you can.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u64	Madam President! It is good to hear two strong speeches, Mr Haraka and perhaps Mr Hoskosen from the other side. Good and refreshing insightful speeches with their own arguments. But at this point, if points were given, then ten points Harakka and then perhaps a little less Hoskonen, as in the ideological view and in what is socially balanced and equality-enhancing and preventing inequality. An excellent example of this unfortunate change of direction for this government is the tax differential. That is the same as increasing the income gap and, unfortunately, this is ignored in the speeches that are being made on the right. It is very important that business taxation should be reformed, that the reforms should be directed towards those SMEs who employ workers. I am not saying that even lawyers and pharmacists do not employ workers, but that potential in those millions of euros would have been so much more favourable to bring precisely those benefits of VAT, which the Left-wing Union has been pushing for for a few years now. In other words, where the job is created — there are single-employers, self-employed and self-employed — it should have been possible to hire the first foreign worker and thus enable it to generate better economic growth. Regrettably, these government measures are currently faltering demand for the domestic market and, as a result, are further destabilising public finances in such a way that they will have to be cut even further in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u65	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. In the previous speech, which is longer than this one, I asked whether anyone knows an economist or otherwise an economic expert who would disagree with the view that, when companies improve their cost competitiveness, it will have a positive impact on the development of employment. They were not found until now, apparently, Mr Harakka came forward, and when I know that Mr Harakka is an expert in the economy, it is good that one of these has been found. I can tell you, Mr Harakka, that all the other experts are convinced that when companies become more competitive, it will increase employment. To what extent and in what terms and what other factors affect it is more controversial. Madam Speaker! Mr Viitanen thanked me for whether it was now honesty or uprightness. Either way, thank you must always be humbly received.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u68	Mr President! The experienced representative, Mr Zyskowicz, is a skilled retreater who translates my message into the one he prefers to answer about what I meant and said. I want small businesses to be helped. That is what the Social Democrats want. That is why I am desperate that you use this aid, the so-called entrepreneurship reduction, to help the largest, the richest, so that it will flow into tens of millions of top income categories.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u71	Mr President! There has been a rather varied and varied debate here on the state of the economy and, above all, on the impact and content of the kiky agreement, and this is all well and good. I'd like to say a word about it. First of all, this agreement on kiky is the most important economic and employment policy action of this regime, the value and importance of which are made possible by the social partners, but perhaps by a lesser government. In this respect, however, this solution must be seen in relation to the options that can be defended — painful solutions, but still. Just imagine that if labour market solutions were to be taken in a decentralised way this autumn, in the midst of this general uncertainty that we and we have in the world, what sort of agreement policy we are going to have here. Moreover, perhaps less attention has been paid to the fact that this decision that has been made led, after various stages, to the putting aside of the coercive package. This led to a separate proposal for a mandatory law on local settlement being put aside and a negotiated approach and solutions were obtained, i.e. the desire to continue tripartite cooperation in the future. I think they're pretty important things. In this respect, however, it is perhaps good to say that the Competitiveness Pact as such will not solve all our problems. Price competitiveness is not the only challenge facing our economy. That is where we catch up with Germany and Sweden, but our problems are much deeper and relate to our growth, to employment. We have a Finnish record of long-term unemployment in our laps at the moment. Our growth rates are very low, and with these growth rates, if we do not get the economic dynamics moving, this objective will generate 110,000 new jobs and raise the employment rate to 72% will disappear. That is why this look should now be raised — not just about price competitiveness, but about our real competitiveness. Our problem is the weak veto on exports and, above all, the collapse of high-processing exports from Finland. After all, researchers have wondered why we cannot expand this export base and get new exports to high-processing products. If we don't make it, then we're gonna get hurt a little bit. The second challenge, of course, relates to productivity. That's something we've been talking about here, too. We have had a rather poor productivity development for many years, and here we would need such national measures, which go all the way to business, to raise in a positive way productivity, which will be the main engine of our economic growth in the years to come: to increase productivity. The third challenge, of course, relates to the slow pace of investment. All the economic policy measures that support investment in Finland would be very important, as would the fact that our export industry and exports of services are well placed to export in Finland. Here I would venture a little to think forward, and the idea would be that when the government's mid-term review of its work comes in spring, would it be possible to take a look at these toes a little further and the government would consider even taking a little risk in building such an investment programme in Finland, a programme that would be linked to supporting investments in the private sector on the one hand, but which would also involve public investments that would be worth making in times like this? I think that such a way of thinking — I would like — would lead to a new momentum in this kind of negative spiral in order to revive our economy and thereby improve export opportunities. That's what I'm thinking. Then perhaps at the end of the day: under these circumstances, the unemployed should no longer be mutilated. In my view, there is no longer any justification for further cuts in unemployment benefit. Every one of us understands that if we go out and cut unemployment benefit under these employment conditions, it will in practice lead to people falling more into municipal income security, the cost of housing subsidies will increase and, unfortunately, these people will not always be able to work. And this is also explained by the terrible figures we have in long-term unemployment: they are increasing in duration. And think, within three months, 35% of the unemployed will be employed. If one year ago, less than 30 per cent, and if you have been unemployed for two years, only 9 per cent will be employed. We should quickly do this kind of long-term unemployment folding programme, for which we have made a proposal in paragraph 15, and I would like it to be treated favourably, because that is our biggest problem, because without dealing with it will result in great social exclusion in this country, and that is something we cannot afford.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u72	Mr President! I have listened to this debate, which has been very good, and I agree with Mr Ihalainen's ideas in the sense that our problem is that we do not have investment, we have poor value added and then that this export does not pull, and it is not just large companies but small ones. But there has also been a debate here about this competitiveness. It's done. It's done. It's done. Of course, we can think about why this cut in holiday money only applies to the public side, but it has come to this. But now the government has promised some EUR 500 million in these tax cuts. Although I am a representative of the Government Party, I certainly hope that, if we want justice, we will, for example, have the money to cut back on this money — which is what it is now. As the opposition has said here, it should be said that the tax cuts would be directed at the low incomes, not just at everyone evenly. If we want low incomes to have purchasing power too, then the government would have a place to look, that would make such fair decisions just for low incomes. At least I hope that these discussions will take place within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u73	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 8/2016 vp. Mr Eerola, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, was the first to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u74	Madam President! To this very beginning, I would like to convey my condolences to the family and friends of the person who was killed during the weekend in Kajaani. The report adopted unanimously by the Administrative Committee on the citizens' initiative for the expulsion of a foreigner who has committed a crime is on the table in June. The initiative is by its nature an initiative for action in the field of law-making. It is intended that a new law be drawn up under which foreigners who have committed serious crimes will be deported if they have been sentenced to imprisonment, regardless of the length of the sentence. An exception would only be made in cases where expulsion would be a sure violation of international agreements. Mr President! The weakness of this citizens' initiative lies in the fact that we already have legislation to banish a foreigner. In fact, the legislation in force in Finland is stricter than the objective of the citizens' initiative. Under the current law, foreigners can be prevented from entering the country on the basis of the Aliens Act and the Schengen Borders Code. A foreigner can also be converted. It is then a question of a person whose residence is subject to a residence permit but who has not been granted a residence permit. In this respect, I will refer to the committee's report in more detail. For its part, expulsion is a procedure whereby a foreigner who is resident on a fixed-term or permanent residence permit is removed from the country. Deportation is also a matter where removal takes place after the expiry of the period of stay or of the registered right of residence and the foreigner does not leave voluntarily. Pursuant to Article 149(1)(2) of the Aliens Act, a foreigner who has been found guilty of a crime for which the sentence laid down is at least one year in prison may be expelled from the country with a residence permit. Thus, expulsion does not even require a person to be sentenced to imprisonment. In the light of this provision, even community service, probation or a fine is sufficient for expulsion, provided that the maximum penalty is at least one year of imprisonment. In addition to the above, it is clear from the report of the Administrative Committee that Article 149(1)(2) of the Aliens Act does not require a requirement relating to the seriousness of repeated offences, but, in principle, any minor offence may constitute grounds for expulsion of a foreigner. The Committee on Administrative Affairs stresses that the legislation in force in our country contains a wide range of possibilities for the expulsion of foreigners who have committed crimes. In recent years, approximately 250 foreigners have been expelled from Finland on an annual basis, and around 30% of expulsions have been motivated by a crime. Madam President! The Committee on Administrative Affairs takes the view that our country's legislation is stricter than the legislation proposed for the citizens' initiative. The Administrative Committee does not consider it appropriate to relax the legislation in force in Finland, as the committee does not consider it justified to hinder the expulsion of a foreigner who has committed the crime. For the sake of clarity, it should be noted that certain international obligations prohibit the expulsion of a foreigner who is threatened with the death penalty, torture or other forms of human dignity. At national level, that provision is contained both in Article 9(4) of the Constitution and in Article 147 of the Aliens Act. And I am sure it is still appropriate to mention that, in all cases in the case of expulsion, there must be an overall consideration, taking into account the various factors, before the final decision on expulsion is taken. Finally, Mr President, it is clear from the report that the government is preparing a draft law, in accordance with the government's programme, to speed up the expulsion of offenders and persons dangerous to public order. The proposal is expected to be submitted to Parliament by next spring at the latest. The Committee on Administrative Affairs stresses the importance of sufficiently careful and thorough preparation of the citizens' initiative, inter alia in the longer term, in terms of the legitimacy of the entire citizens' initiative process. In view of the credibility of the citizens' initiative system, it is appropriate to examine the measures that could contribute to the preparation of sufficiently high-quality citizens' initiatives. In conclusion, the Administrative Committee proposes that this citizens' initiative be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u75	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! A Somali man arrived in Finland in 1990 and applied for asylum. He was not granted asylum, but he was granted a temporary residence permit for humanitarian reasons. It ended in the spring of 1994. A year earlier, this man had raped a 13-year-old girl in Tampere. A couple of years later, he was still in Finland, murdered a 15-year-old girl in Tampere. During a life sentence, a man later took only a few hours’ imprisonment for aggravated sexual abuse of a small child. In fact, as early as 2001, the Foreign Office issued a decision to expel a man. It's still in force. The man was considered dangerous in that decision. However, the Helsinki Court of Appeal decided to release this man from his life sentence to parole last spring. Now he's getting out of prison. The Criminal Sanctions Agency was opposed to liberalisation and, in fact, tried to bring this matter before the Supreme Court without being allowed to do so. The Supreme Court did not grant permission to hear the case. I myself have taken a legislative initiative, which is before Parliament, that these risk assessments should be binding, so that when professionals say that a person is not socially viable and that he cannot be released, it should be binding. It is another debate, and I hope that this bill of law will go forward in Parliament and in the Ministry of Justice, so that in the future this type of situation will be avoided, so that all professionals say that the criminal in question is not socially viable, that he should not be released. The Court of Appeal, which made this exemption despite opposition from the Criminal Sanctions Agency, argued that this man, who had raped, murdered and raped and yet committed gross sexual abuse of a small child, could be released because he has been in prison for a long time, has social networks and has studied. The Court also welcomed the fact that a man does not drink or have a history of substance abuse. Of course, he's got a different kind of criminal history, a pretty rough one. The Court of Appeal's decision has made a big difference, and I understand that it has also been a source of inspiration for this citizens' initiative. And that decision was also a shock to the families of these victims. That woman, who was raped at 13 years of age, told me in the spring of the evening in Sanomat that "that man put everything in pieces, destroyed everything from me." Now, however, this man is being released into Finnish society. Can the man now be deported from Finland to Somalia? That is now a question, and I also hope that the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola, will respond and respond. I understand that if this bill is moving in a more relaxed direction, as I believe it would be taking your in-depth examination of the committee, it would be wrong, but it is now a matter of my opinion whether or not the legislation needs to be changed so that we can get rid of this type of person in Finland. The police have found that there are a lot of moving parts. "The case is not a simple one, nor has it yet been announced in the church", This man has told us that he was born in Mogadishu, Somalia, and these security assessments of Mogadishu have been improved, but nevertheless it seems that the man is not about to be removed from Finland. Fortunately, he hasn't been released from prison. He's currently in custody. There must be a reason, and the reason is that the goal is to get him out of the country. I understand that the current legislation allows him to be kept in custody for a maximum of one year. What's the situation in a year? Is this rapist, murderer-rapist, child sexual abuser free in September of next year? That, in my opinion, is what this is all about, and there must be a system in Finland so that people of this type cannot be freed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u76	Madam President! In this debate, which now, even in the context of asylum and immigration policy, is sometimes unilateral in that both sides are simply shouting their own positions, I would like to start by reminding you that the expulsion of criminals is a starting point, even internationally. Finnish residents will also be deported back to Finland if, according to the laws of that country, they must be expelled, i.e. they have committed such serious crimes. It is therefore important to bear in mind how the law should be developed in this debate. Clearer criteria and fair criteria should be established and followed in these expulsion cases. This citizens' initiative for expulsion has been signed by over 54,000 people and is a clear sign of concern as to whether this system, which operates in Finland, is fair. From what Mr Heinonen said earlier, we see that it is not always a fair system in Finland. Unfortunately, the wording of this citizens' initiative was incorrect, as Mr Eerola said in his opening speech, but the idea of that citizens' initiative was correct, the principle that we all know is behind it is the right one — that is to say, to tighten up these criteria for expulsion. In this context, I cannot ignore my own legislative initiative on this automatic expulsion of those who have committed serious crimes, because I believe that this citizens' initiative is behind it, as the text shows, even though it is short, it is precisely that those who have committed serious crimes should be expelled automatically. This also means that the authorities must not have too much discretion. There must be clear expulsion criteria and they must be respected, not that decisions are taken by the authority on a random basis. However, now that there is going to be a future legislative change — there is still no information on what the government's proposal is, which is to be presented in the spring, there is no clear information yet on it by the representatives — it would be appropriate to take into account just the purpose of this citizens' initiative, the fact that expulsion decisions really need to be made more effective, precisely in the decision-making process. Then, if we are talking about speeding up this process of expulsion, then this point that I mentioned earlier is also applicable to it, that is to say, if we want to speed up, we will speed up the process by reducing the duration of the process. This could be done, for example, by abolishing this right of administrative appeal and transferring it to the General Criminal Court for the purpose of expulsion of serious and serious crimes. Then there would be no need to carry out the administrative justice process on top of it, there would be no need for a police proposal to the Finnish Immigration Service and then the Finnish Immigration Service's discretion. This is one of the ways I am going to propose how to speed up this process, but I believe that this issue will now be going through strictly within the government in the coming months and we will come to a conclusion on how to speed this up and hopefully also make the decision on expulsion more effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u77	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Mr Heinonen spoke a lot about the Somali man's case here. We do not have an agreement with Somalia that Somalia will accept its own citizens who have been deported there. However, I very much welcome the fact that, in spite of this, the police authorities are endeavouring, in this particular case, to allow a person to be returned to Somalia. Will this work, we do not know, because we do not have the experience of returning Somalis to Somalia in recent years. However, a few years ago, for example, there was a case in which the Somali man who committed gross crimes in Finland managed to return to Somaliland. Mr President! I am talking here about two things: firstly, the process of expulsion of foreign offenders and, more recently, the question of whether such a person who has been deported or converted, despite everything, has remained illegally in Finland, the same social security, normal income support as foreigners and kansana Finns who are legally present in the country. As far as this expulsion process is concerned, we have, after all, in the law the grounds on which the foreign offender can be deported, and these criteria were made clear by the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola. The process is that, in the case of such a person, the police, under official responsibility, propose to the Finnish Immigration Service that the person concerned be deported. The Finnish Immigration Service will then decide whether or not to expel this person. Then, of course, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, a person will have the opportunity to appeal to an independent court, in this case the administrative court. After that, the Administrative Court will decide on expulsion. I think that would be enough. We could shorten the expulsion process by imposing a ban on the administrative right to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Today this is not the case, but an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court can be filed against a decision of the Administrative Court. In my opinion, it is clear that everyone who is expelled will make every effort to prolong the expulsion from Finland, hoping that during that time the circumstances will change, for example, by means of a family bond or other means, so that he can remain in the country. I therefore see that this possibility to apply for a further appeal from the administrative court to the Supreme Administrative Court is unnecessary and is used in practice to prolong this process of expulsion. An adequate guarantee of legal certainty, even in the light of the European Convention on Human Rights, is that a decision of a public authority, i.e. a decision of the Finnish Immigration Service, can be appealed to an independent court. In this respect, I believe that a ban on the right of appeal to move forward should be introduced. The second thing I want to talk about here is the right of illegal immigrants to social security. For example, as Mr Heinonen said, we have exiled people in our country who refuse to leave the country and where forced return is not possible. In addition to that, we will have at least hundreds, if not thousands, of people in the country by next year who, after having received a negative asylum decision, have been decided to leave the country but who refuse to leave the country, even though there is a fully valid decision on their asylum application and therefore a final decision on their return. What is the right to social security for these illegal people in our country? I rubbed my eyes when I read the YLE News website in the morning 31.8. So a couple of weeks ago, the headline was, "Did you know? Finland provides income support to foreigners who remain in the country without a permit". I really did not know, and I do not believe that anyone else does, because I do not think that this news is true. So, on my own initiative, I contacted and corrected the matter and expressed my own opinion — I am also a constitutional expert after my studies and years of work in the Constitutional Committee — and I said that if a person is illegally present in Finland, he is naturally entitled to the most necessary social security, such as food, roofing the head with frost, medicines and the like, but that in the case of such a person who has received a valid negative decision on his asylum application or a valid expulsion decision, the entire Finnish legal order assumes that the person will leave the country as soon as possible. And so, of course, he cannot have the usual, normal income support that is provided according to a certain standard income and for at least a month at a time. I thought it was clear and kindly interviewed me on the news and took this position. My position is also in line with the European Court of Human Rights, which, in July, took a similar decision on Holland: It was an Ethiopian man who refused to leave his country and who could not be forced to convert, and Holland refused to give him anything other than four weeks' income support and, under certain conditions, accommodation. The European Court of Human Rights stated that the Dutch procedure was in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. So I thought it was like I said and that it was pretty much in order — but it wasn't. Understandably, the public radio also wanted to hear from elsewhere. And so, Professor of Constitutional Law at the University of Turku, Professor Lavapuro, completely disagreed with me. He felt that 'the interpretation of Zyskowicz is, however, problematic because it puts foreigners without paper in a position of inequality'. Incidentally, I did not talk about paperless, because I think it is a misleading general concept, because it can contain both those who are legally in the country, such as these beggars in Helsinki, and those who are illegally in the country, such as those who have been deported. Further, Lavapuro says: "The Constitution, however, is unambiguous in this matter. Everyone is guaranteed the right to the necessary income. If you are not satisfied, you can change the Constitution." The Lavapuro also said: "People are equal. Not Finns. People. This Article 19 of the Constitution Paragraph 1 applies to everyone and we have no reason to treat them differently." So, if I understand Lavapuro correctly, he feels that we have no reason to treat a person who is illegal in Finland and who is, according to our legal order, leaving the country in the first place, in comparison to a person who is in the country entirely legally, then, if Lavapuro feels this way, how to say it mildly, it is a very strange statement. Of course, we have a constitutional right — and I think we also have a duty, but it is not a constitutional obligation at present — in different ways to assess the need for social support for a person who is fully legally in our country, like a person who is illegally in our country and who we assume and want to leave our country. And this concept of Professor Lavapuro, if it is correctly referred to and I understand it correctly, is completely incomprehensible. I know you're a professor. Lavapuro is a member of the fundamental rights fundamentalist school and I am used to the fact that the school can become a whole range of constitutional interpretations. But it has to be said that I have not come across such an ill-founded position in a long time. Finally, Mr President, when the time is up, I would like to say that when there seems to be different legal interpretations of this matter, I would like the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee to be able to take a position on this matter in some appropriate context. And I am sure that this will also be desired by officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, for example, who are currently preparing a new guide on the granting of income support in these situations. At the end of the day, I want to say: In December of last year, when Deputy Ombudsman Sakslin took a position without a permanent residence permit on the right of persons residing in Finland to receive income support, this position has been misinterpreted in the public domain, including in this Yle news, as an opinion on the right of persons living illegally in the country to receive income support. And this is not what Sakslin's position means. This was last confirmed yesterday by an official who presented the matter in New Finland. In other words, we do not have the opinion of the competent law enforcement authority, such as the Assistant Ombudsman, that people who are illegally present in Finland are also entitled to the same standard income support as those who are legally present in the country, and of course this position could not even exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u78	Mr President! When we dealt with this citizens' initiative in the Committee on Administration, it was also absolutely necessary to consider how the citizens' initiative could be a more effective tool for civic activity at all. Legislation must always comply with certain legal frameworks which, as the committee's report also states, follow fundamental principles such as the Constitution or international obligations. In order for the citizens' initiative to genuinely be an initiative for legislation and not just as a catalyst for public debate, there should be a way for citizens to have the support to do so. Otherwise, there may be misinformation on the basis of these initiatives, and ultimately, in practice, when dealing with the citizens' initiative, the Parliament and, of course, the author of the initiative will only be burdened. I am therefore convinced, after that committee reading, that citizens' initiatives would need, at the very least, some kind of preliminary legal review before the parliamentary procedure, preferably even before the names are collected. No one calls for complete direct legislative initiatives, but citizens' initiatives should be based on the right understanding of Finnish legislation. This initiative was not based on, or was, behind its time in this case. However, this citizens' initiative can also be commended for extending the debate in this legislation. The current legislation includes, among other things, a wide range of possibilities for the expulsion of offenders, which was essential to the citizens' initiative. Hopefully, with the publicity of the initiative, the right image will be passed on to Finns. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior, as President Eerola also mentioned, is in the process of reporting on speeding up the removal of the perpetrators of serious crimes. We will have the matter before Parliament next spring, and it is likely that it will be able to address the issues referred to in previous speeches. Mr President! Much has been criticised for the government's immigration policy. Last year and at the end of the year, the Administrative Committee followed the crisis very closely, and one can only say that something had to be done. A year ago, a week ago, the same number of asylum seekers came in the year before. The situation had to be brought under control once and for all. I think that the government's December policies were a good success in taking over the situation. It is true that the legislation was tightened up, but at the same time the efforts were made to make the processes smooth from the EU's external borders to integration. Even the removal of traction factors was necessary, as Finland is not able to take on the burden more than it has resources. It wouldn't have been in the interests of those who came in. Thus, in the spring, the humanitarian protection criterion for foreigners was abolished, which was the so-called Finnish supplement introduced in 2009, which resulted in 7% of the positive decisions being taken. The criteria for family reunification were also tightened up within the framework of the EU directive and in a joint Nordic line. In this context, it must also be said that Migri is doing her own work and must be given peace. Returns are based on safety reviews, which Migri will also update on a regular basis. All in all, I am confident that if an asylum seeker needs asylum and the grounds are in order, he will receive asylum in Finland. Similarly, Mr President, expulsion measures also require amendments and, if necessary, they need to be speeded up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u79	Mr President! Mrs Katainen rightly wondered what the future of these citizens' initiatives would be. I guess there hasn't been a single citizens' initiative yet that could have been directly transferred to the law book. However, these are clearly expressing the will state of a fairly large group of Finns, and of course it is perhaps the message that these will be. One might also wonder whether it would be necessary to have a precise legal spelling or whether it would be sufficient to have a statement of will in which a certain message is made clear to the parliamentarians, to Parliament, and then a normal legislative mechanism would do so if the majority of Parliament so decided. This could be one sensible model to move forward with. Then, of course, these initiatives and counter-initiatives and counter-initiatives are their own. These will certainly have to be considered in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u80	Mr President! Mr Heinonen is right to speak, but if I have correctly understood the system of citizens' initiatives, the initiative can also be drafted in the form in which it calls for legislative work to take place. So I do not see any contradiction here with the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u81	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u82	Mr President! There is no reason why this subject has aroused much public debate and emotion. I believe that it is quite obvious that when Finland hopefully offers security, those who bring in insecurity cannot be the first in line. In the Committee on Administration, we tabled a unanimous report on this initiative and went through the initiative very thoroughly, despite the fact that the initiative was behind certain basic assumptions or, let us say, flawed. On the other hand, the initiative made it possible for the matter to be fully covered, and now I hope that all Finns will be a little wiser in what the situation is in this area. I also understand very well its concern and indignation from the citizens. When we talk about serious crimes, they are, at worst, fundamentally affecting people. Personally, too, I believe that the penalties for sexual offences in Finland, for example, are too often too low. On the other hand, when we consider expulsion, as the committee says, there are a number of issues here that need to be taken into account. We must respect the international rule of law and ensure that everything is done in a so-called civilised and respect for human rights, including in cases where someone has come to Finland to do something irreplaceable. I generally hope that we will bear in mind the principle of the rule of law when we talk about immigration policy in more general terms, especially in cases where we deal with people who have not committed crimes. At the moment, there are legitimate concerns as to whether all human rights are being fulfilled when Finland makes negative asylum decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u83	Mr President! Right at the end of his speech, Mr Parviainen drew attention to the fact that international human rights are being met when Finland makes asylum decisions. I have also noticed from the public debate that Professor Martin Schein, for example, has said that, in an individual case, the negative decision given by the Finnish Immigration Service to an Iraqi man is contrary to our constitution. I have also noticed, quite recently, that it has been claimed that the drafting of legislation in foreign affairs ministries or in parliament does not pay sufficient attention to fundamental rights and human rights. I can say that every proposal on immigration and foreigners that has come over the last few years has gone to the Constitutional Committee and every one has been justified by a page in relation to fundamental rights and human rights. These issues are constantly on the agenda, and in Finland's system the Constitutional Committee decides on matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I had to remind myself that the actual report was being drawn up even before the beginning of the summer break and now we are discussing it right at the beginning of the autumn season. It has just been said that the committee was very unanimous, and the starting point is that Finnish legislation already contains a very wide range of possibilities for the expulsion of offenders, both serious crimes and minor crimes, if you consider that people are a danger to society and other people or that there is a larger number of such crimes. But it is unfortunate that this debate on citizens' initiatives seems to be going in some vague direction if we have more similar citizens' initiatives that have not been familiar with the current Finnish legislation. In my view, which appreciates the citizens' initiative and the consultation of the public's opinion, it is regrettable that we, in some way, are creating a large citizens' initiative signed by tens of thousands of people, based on incorrect information. To this, not so much on a legal point, but on this point, I would like to see more detailed control and, as the committee refers to in its own report, I would like to think about the measures to be taken so that such citizens' initiatives do not move even up to this Parliament until they have actually corrected the incorrect data, because I do not think it is in the Parliament's authority to bring different things into the parliamentary process only on the basis of images. But, of course, Parliament has to deal with issues that people are concerned about, and that is why we have written here unanimously in the report that we should consider the measures to improve this quality in relation to citizens' initiatives. It must be noted that expulsion decisions have therefore been taken, but it should be noted that the majority of expulsion decisions have been taken on grounds other than criminal grounds, i.e. presumably on the grounds that a person has not received asylum and has not received a residence permit and then a expulsion decision is taken. I think it is quite justified that a expulsion decision is taken by the Finnish Immigration Service either on its own, by the police or by border control, but of course it can also be refused entry or a decision to convert. There are different possibilities. And, of course, it is justified from a human rights point of view, which was discussed here by the representatives, that it is not possible to hand over by force to a country where there is undoubtedly a risk of human being being killed, to be subjected to the death penalty, to torture or to other forms of human dignity. Of course, Finland should not return people to such places.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u88	Mr President! This popular initiative now under discussion is a very strong expression of the will of the concerned citizens. But as the old Finnish proverb says, not a paddle to the sea, this has unfortunately gone out to the sea without a boat and also those life jackets. If the initiative were to be adopted as such, it would significantly impede the expulsion of a foreigner who committed the crime, and this was certainly not the intention either. That is why, in view of the future, it is extremely important to look at the ways in which we have in relation to these citizens' initiatives that, when they go to this House, they are genuinely lacking in the problem, genuinely in accordance with the law, which will then be able to be tackled by Parliament with its own authority. It is clear that, in the current legislation, we have all the tools at our disposal to expel a foreigner who has committed a crime. At the moment, it is not so much a question of legislation as of return agreements for certain countries, and here I appeal to the government, and in particular to Foreign Minister Soin, that, first and foremost, these return agreements with Somalia and Iraq should be pursued as a matter of priority. As a whole, in this debate on what is going on with foreigners, asylum policy and the expulsion of foreigners who have committed crimes, I would like to remind you that we in Finland must be a model country of civilisation, equality and equality, and, on this basis too, we must always remember what it means 'in the country of origin': we must commit ourselves to common rules of play, and those who are not prepared to do this can also leave the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u89	Mr President! We are dealing with the citizens' initiative on the expulsion of foreigners who have committed serious crimes. At the beginning of my speech, I agree with what has been said to remind you that this country is living by the laws of this Republic and that it is just as reprehensible to commit serious and less serious crimes as an asylum seeker or another citizen. In the course of the parliamentary administrative committee's deliberations, the committee agreed that the threshold for the expulsion of foreign offenders is already low within the framework of the current legislation. It is therefore not only a question of expulsion where the asylum seeker commits serious crimes, but also a case of asylum seekers who have committed fines and foreigners residing in this country, and a return process can often be initiated. The key issue in this debate is what has already been referred to in this debate: how does the investigation of criminal cases and the judicial process work on these issues of expulsion and return? I would therefore like to draw attention to the preparation of the parliamentary committee which was sitting in Parliament at the end of the last term. This parliamentary committee represented all the parties that sat in this house last season, and this committee also produced proposals for measures on how to speed up judicial processes in the future. I agree with Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Paatero that we must also make this complaint system more flexible to the extent that there is a need, but without unduly undermining this legal basis. At the same time, the budget for police investigations and justice must also be secured, and I will end by drawing attention to the Sipilä Government's proposal on this subject, which I hope will be completed next year. I wish this proposal and, above all, its preparation at this stage all the best.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u90	Mr President! The citizens' initiative is a welcome addition to our Finnish democracy. It has enriched the political debate and has led Parliament to discuss and take a stand on issues that are also addressed to citizens who would otherwise not be able to have room in politics. Various initiatives have been discussed in the Parliament. However, as a relatively young tool for democracy, the citizens' initiative is still seeking its place. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that all initiatives must be dealt with seriously and with sufficient depth. A good thing is to draw up a report from the committee on all the initiatives so that they will also be discussed in plenary. However, it does not believe that Parliament will have to deal with half-baked citizens' initiatives, especially if they are manifestly incorrect. This was not intended when the citizens' initiative was made possible in Finland in 2012, and many speeches have been made in this Chamber today. Mr President! The initiative now under discussion is in many ways questionable. Firstly, this initiative is technically incorrect. Even if the authors of the initiative clearly wanted to tighten foreign law, it would actually be a slackening of the bill compared to the law in force. Current legislation allows for the expulsion of perpetrators of serious crimes. Secondly, the substance of the initiative is questionable, if I may say populist. It presents simple solutions to a complex problem. Finland must respect the common rules agreed by the UN and the EU and respect the international agreements to which we are committed. In the state of justice, all offenders are also treated the same way, regardless of their background. A lot of people have come to Finland from warring and war-torn countries: Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and Syria. These are countries to which expulsion is not easy, especially if these countries refuse to accept a person. A person may also be threatened with the death penalty. The best way to prevent crime is to take care of the welfare society, its services and security networks, and to prevent exclusion. Effective integration and employment of immigrants is of paramount importance, and the strengthening of sanctions will not solve these problems sustainably. The Left Alliance is not in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u91	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Administrative Committee for a good report and also for the fact that it has dealt with this matter. After all, the text of the report refers to the option that the report could not have been dealt with because of shortcomings. But now we should also be discussing the fact that, first of all, democracy must of course be supported, but is it even too easy to take a citizens' initiative today? Today there are 50,000 names, but should it be 100,000 names, for example? And then the quality should be such that we can make more final decisions here. The essential thing, however, is that when this kind of initiative is taken up, it will be dealt with seriously and properly, and it will take a lot of time and hard work. In my opinion, however, the expression of the position of more than 50,000 people deserves an answer. It is important that the report refers to the legislation in force and to the way in which it is currently possible to take action on expulsion. Although this rather slogan-like citizens' initiative does not meet the qualitative criteria that are expected of an initiative that directly leads to legislative changes, it has not yet been drafted in vain. I understand this citizens' initiative, at least in part, as an expression of opinion and concern, rather than as a legislative initiative. I believe that this bill is based in particular on the statistics that show that certain groups with foreign background are strongly over-represented in certain types of offences. This concern must be taken extremely seriously. The report refers to a project under way in the Ministry of the Interior, under the Government Programme, to speed up the expulsion of perpetrators, repeaters and persons dangerous to public order. Hopefully, on the basis of this project, a firm government proposal will be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. I hope, however, that there is a broad consensus that if we allow a foreign person to reside in our country for various reasons and then commit a serious crime here, then, in principle, we must be able to remove such a person from our country as soon as he has been punished. The effective punishment and expulsion of foreign criminals is also likely to reduce racism and the prejudices that can be felt against the majority of foreigners living in our country as well as our immigration policy. Fortunately, however, these crimes are extremely rare, and we can live safely here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u92	Mr President! I can agree with the many speeches that have also been made here about the citizens' initiative system itself and about how we can obtain some kind of advance support in legal matters so that citizens' initiatives do not stumble first and foremost, at least on the basis of false assumptions or outdated information. However, I very much welcome the fact that the Committee on Administrative Affairs took up the citizens' initiative despite these shortcomings. The committee's report does contain a lot of things that can be taken forward by Parliament in the future, and it is also good that the committee was unanimous in its report. I believe that this citizens' initiative, which now concerns the expulsion of foreigners who have committed serious crimes, is partly linked to the second citizens' initiative, which has been on the side of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. This debate has also raised the issue of tightening up the penalties for sexual crimes against children, when these issues have been dealt with somewhat. In fact, our law is already quite strict in many places, but it does not reflect the will of the legislator. I would like the Minister of Justice, in accordance with the Government Programme, to submit these amendments as soon as possible, so that the convictions of those convicted of crimes will also reach the level they were intended by the legislator.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u93	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Mr Paatero rightly said that, of course, we cannot expel anyone under conditions such as the death penalty. This is the only correct position. Finland is the rule of law, Finland is a civilized country, and in various international treaties and in our own constitution this is a clear starting point. So, for example, even if it turns out that an Iraqi has committed a serious crime in Finland, but we know that before he arrives in Finland he is in Iraq among those who have committed, for example, the shooting of prisoners there, we would not be able to send him there if we knew that he was to be sentenced to death — like some others who have committed these shootings. Mr. Speaker! In this context, I would like to draw attention to something that was at least spoken of by representatives Katainen and Parviainen, namely the work of the Finnish Immigration Service under the current asylum pressure. In my opinion, the Finnish Immigration Service is doing its job under very difficult circumstances, and it is a pity that there is criticism of the work of the Finnish Immigration Service in the public debate, which, in my opinion, has been interpreted quite simply in public terms. I refer to the eleven-page case of Helsingin Sanomat, i.e. I saw an 11-page case on the A-fours, whose core message from some ten or so employees of the Finnish Immigration Service was that they have to work under heavy time pressure and feel that due diligence is not always able to handle matters. I think this is quite understandable, and I do not know very many employees in the public or private sectors who do not think that there is a little too much work and too much time. But the main message of this case was that they are being subjected to tough performance targets and this is putting pressure on schedules with the resulting problems. Now, this message from the anonymous employees of the Finnish Immigration Service has simply or almost simply turned to public opinion so that they are not required to perform a lot, that is to say, a lot of solutions, but a lot of negative solutions are required. Anyone who doesn't believe this can watch last Friday's Press Club TV or listen to this morning's First Morning, where the reporter interviewed Minister Risikko. Now, the public debate in Finland — obviously not to mention social media, that I cannot say when I am not there — is such that employees of the Finnish Immigration Service are strictly required to take further negative decisions. There are now more than 500 people employed in the agency in this situation, and I am not surprised that there are certainly not those who are experiencing this. But the core message of this vast story of Helsingin Sanomat — contrary to what is now being said in the public domain — was not this, but the core message was that too many decisions are required of them. There was one point in this whole case where this demand for negative decisions came up, and it reads: "It is worrying that many of Migri's officials say that they have experienced more negative decisions being required of them. Experience is not based on any guidance, but on the general atmosphere and individual signals." It has therefore been concluded in the public debate that more negative decisions are specifically required of them and political pressure is being put on them in this direction. What do I think it is? Well, the thing is that, first of all, in a democracy such as Finland is, the laws govern the government and ultimately the parliament. And we passed a law in which we removed the so-called humanitarian protection category from our legislation, a category that was not in any other country. Of course, this amendment of the law by Parliament in the public democratic process led to people who had previously received a positive decision on the basis of this category of humanitarian protection no longer having a positive decision. When this matter was discussed in this Chamber, I thought it was about a small group, because earlier on that basis very few had been granted a residence permit. I was obviously wrong about this. In other words, in the case of Iraqis, it has obviously affected a large number of people who, if that old law had been in force, would have obtained a residence permit on that basis but will not be allowed under the new law. In other words, Iraq seems to be in a situation where this particular category of humanitarian protection would have been a worthy category. But this is not a secret political pressure; it is a law passed by a parliament, a parliament elected by the people, which, of course, must be followed by officials. Another open public policy direction is provided in the Government’s Asylum Policy Action Plan 8. The President It says quite publicly on page 3: 'We have a common asylum policy with the EU and the Nordic countries'. So again, it is not a question of vague political pressure, but of a completely legitimate political direction which, in a democratic system, belongs to the political system. This has certainly had an impact when comparing Finnish practices with Sweden and finding that, for example, in the case of Iraqis, Sweden had applied this possibility of internal escape much more than Finland had done. These things I have just mentioned — the law passed by Parliament, the open political policy of the government — have, of course, had an effect, and they must have an effect, of course, because these officials and this agency exist to apply the Finnish law. But then on these claims that there are secret political pressures — whether through cats and dogs or not, they have now been sought in the media, that where these pressures come from — I would like to say that there are certainly individual politicians who, in their blogs or other ways, have hoped and "required" Migri to take a tighter line, but in the same way and even more, we have politicians who, in their blogs and Facebook updates and Twitter, have called for more positive decisions from Migri. For example, politicians Li Andersson and Ville Niinistö, to give you a few examples. After that, we have the media, Finland's largest media houses, Yleisradio and Helsingin Sanomat, which are clearly not just in their editorials, but in their choice of cases and in their news coverage are dissatisfied with the current line of the Finnish Immigration Service and in fact require or hope for more positive decisions. In addition, we have lawyers who publicly reproach the decisions of the Finnish Immigration Service even against the Constitution and demand more positive decisions. Since then, for example, we have had a demonstration before the Finnish Immigration Service, which called for more positive decisions. I believe that all this is absolutely natural in a free civil society. In other words, the Finnish Immigration Service is certainly under pressure, civil opinion, a variety of activities in favour of negative decisions, but certainly a great deal of activity — various refugee organisations, refugee counselling, refugee aid and others — in favour of positive decisions. This is only natural, that is how democracy works. And the mission of the Finnish Immigration Service is to comply with Finnish law and make decisions in accordance with it, and I believe that they have done and done so. Mr. Speaker! The intention was to talk about another matter, but why not, when you do, the time goes by so quickly? I would just like to say briefly that in the last few days we have had a debate in Finland, including the Helsinki Sanomat columns and the seminar of constitutional scholars, about the fact that Finland no longer respects fundamental rights and human rights as much as it did a few years ago. In my opinion, this debate is quite unfounded. For example, Elisabeth Rehn, who I highly respect in Helsingin Sanomat, says that when Finland does not respect fundamental rights, it is justified by the fact that Hungary and Poland do not respect them either. I have to say that I have not heard any responsible political party justify our immigration policy, for example, by what is happening in Hungary and Poland. Instead, I have heard many people justify what is happening in Sweden and other Nordic countries, for example. Then there is Professor Martin Schein, who, on the basis of a decision made by a single Finnish Immigration Service, said that the decision given in the case of this Iraqi man from Mosul is contrary to the Finnish Constitution. It's quite a statement from a constitutional professor on a case that's still in progress. I wonder what would be said if criminal law professors went into unfinished cases, Anneli Auer cases or others, to say in the middle of a case, which is the correct interpretation of the law? Moreover, Mr Schein's statement is completely incomprehensible. Everyone — everyone — who has come into this Chamber to change the law on foreigners has been dealt with in the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Each page deals with the relationship between the law and fundamental rights and the international human rights treaties that bind us. There is no point in talking about these being ignored.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u94	Mr President! I would also like to raise a few more points about the expulsion of these criminals. Firstly, the right to income support that has been re-emphasised here too. It seems quite inconceivable that if we do not have general return agreements and we do not have such mass returns to be made, then the person could stay illegally and enjoy income support here. This appeared in the news published by Yle, in which this was interpreted, is indeed not true. You can't get yourself benefits illegally. The recipients of the negative decision are also ordered to be converted. This is one of the fundamental legal issues, which has been largely forgotten, because in these terms journalists, as I am sure others, find it difficult to distinguish between what these things are, what is, for example, the difference between a negative decision by an asylum seeker and a proselytism order. But there is a legal difference, and I have never even read the idea that a person who receives a conversion decision, who is illegally resident, would be entitled to full income support. Not even such a reflection has I heard anywhere, let alone that some researcher, for example as his own opinion, would go into that interpretation of the law. In other words, only emergency aid is indeed a right to receive income support, but it is mainly food aid. Indeed, this matter of income support left the decision of the Assistant Ombudsman, Mr Sakslin, concerning residence permit decisions that were not valid. They made too far-reaching interpretations of it. Even those who look at it very carefully would notice, when there is the Helsinki Administrative Court case, which is invoked, that it was also specifically about such a decision without the power of law. In other words, illegal gain must not be outlawed. These fundamental rights fundamentalists can, of course, make such a constitutional interpretation of social security, but that is wrong. For example, even a thief does not gain constitutional protection for illegally acquired property. And then about these returns. They do not necessarily become such a problem in the case of exiled criminals, but I believe that they should also be able to agree on a case-by-case basis. I believe this has been achieved, i.e. it would be possible to restore criminals without having a general return agreement with the country. We all know that it has proved difficult to reach a general return agreement with Somalia and Iraq, but then we must also note that in those countries in Europe where these return agreements exist, they may not be fully used or implemented in spite of this. In other words, that return agreement is not necessarily the main issue of expelling these criminals; it must be possible to do so on a case-by-case basis. They have to be done. Then there's the expense that people have in mind. First, before the offender is deported, he will be sentenced to prison. This, of course, makes people think and think. If we look at this Omanmäki case now, if a person were to be convicted of manslaughter and if there were to be a ten-year sentence, that would of course mean ten years — or less these poor reduction methods of our current law — of suffering a sentence in a Finnish prison, which, of course, costs society a great deal of money. It's kind of expensive being in prison. It would therefore also be worth considering a slight change to try to outsource the prison sentence to Estonia or Russia, for example. I would at least be ready with Estonia, when it is another EU country, to agree that Estonian prisoners would at least go there to Estonia. As a purchase service agreement, we could provide Estonian prisoners with a prison place in Estonia. Finally, I would like to point out that this is a problem, namely the acquisition of Finnish citizenship. Of course, this concept of a foreigner only applies to a person who has not yet acquired citizenship. In other words, the problem is that when Finnish citizenship is easily obtained in four years, then a person who has received it can of course no longer be returned when even legally he cannot be considered a foreigner. I am sure there will always be debates on the withdrawal of citizenship, but I find it somewhat difficult in legal terms, and I do not believe that this will be the case. On the other hand, I would prefer the criteria for obtaining citizenship to be made more difficult, just as long as the person has been permanently resident in the country. I think it could be doubled by throwing it in eight years. If this were to be done, it would also give a little longer than a trial period, as it were, for the person who moved to the country not to commit crimes. So that four years is still a little short on this kind of trial period with a view to gaining citizenship. - Thank you. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u95	Mr President! In drawing up this citizens' initiative, the aim of its authors has been, in my own interpretation, to tighten up the existing legislation by creating automation for the expulsion of foreigners who have committed serious crimes, even though this is not entirely the wording of the citizens' initiative. Nor was it the intention of those who signed the citizens' initiative to relax the law on foreigners, even in the case of less serious crimes. Mr Tavio said earlier today that he has drawn up a bill aimed at the automatic expulsion of foreigners who have committed serious crimes and have been convicted with the force of law without the current heavy administrative procedure. I myself have signed this bill and I hope it will go as far as the law. In the spring, the government's proposal for more effective expulsions is also coming to Parliament, and the preparation must take into account the concerns of those who have signed this citizens' initiative about the presence of foreigners, those who have committed crimes, and thus tighten up the foreign law sufficiently. Mr Paatero said earlier today that the probability of foreign offenders committing a crime is not substantially different from that of the general population, but unfortunately statistics show that some nationalities account for a much higher proportion of sexual offences than their proportion of the population and, in some cases, more than ten times more. Mr President! Finally, we need to tighten up our citizenship law, in line with the Danish model, for example. In Denmark, for example, several years of work history is required as a condition for granting citizenship. Finally, carefully supervised return centres should be set up in Finland for asylum seekers who have received a negative decision. In the light of recent events, these closed return centres would have long been absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u96	Mr President! In this debate, I was somewhat disturbed by the fact that the Administrative Committee, at least in part, backed up the wording of these articles in this citizens' initiative in such a way that they would not have tightened up this legislation on expulsions. However, in my opinion, the will of this citizens' initiative has been unambiguously clear: more than 50,000 people have wanted a more stringent policy to expel foreigners who have committed serious crimes in Finland when they took the citizens' initiative. We have had a bit of a feeling in this debate in the Chamber that we have gone behind the fact that a citizens' initiative has been technically wrong or that there are errors of this kind. In my opinion, they are secondary, and that is why I personally hope that these citizens' initiatives will be taken even further in the direction of its expression of will and then, for example, in this case, if the majority of the House is in favour — as I have not actually heard at all today who opposed the starting point for this citizens' initiative, there has been no Greens here to oppose it, and one Green, who was present, was quite much in favour of this spirit — then Parliament could give the message that we are doing this and we will tighten it up. This citizens' initiatives in general, and perhaps the fact that we also need to consider the possibility that the citizens' initiative, so to speak, could also be counter-signed, which could prevent this series of citizens' initiatives and counter-citizens' initiatives, which now seems to be the result of at least some of these emotional citizens' initiatives. Risk assessments for criminals: I hope they will become binding. I have not received an answer in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u97	Mr President! At the end of his speech, Mr Heinonen drew attention to what happened to a person who, for example, has a valid expulsion decision or a valid proselytism decision but whose country of origin does not accept forced return and who refuses to leave Finland voluntarily. With regard to this issue, we are still surprised when thousands of people, mainly from Iraq, are now on the table after having received negative decisions on their asylum application at all stages of appeal, or some of them remain in Finland when we do not have the possibility of forced return to Iraq. I have already said, and I think I have shown, that at least the right to full income support cannot exist for such an illegal person in a country, but I would like to say in this connection that it is a good thing that, at the very end of the last parliamentary term, Parliament changed the law so that such an illegal person no longer needs to be granted a temporary residence permit. If we were to grant illegal residents a temporary residence permit, we would in one way withdraw the carpet from the whole asylum process. I admit that there is a problem that we have hundreds or even thousands of people in Finland who are underground or in any case illegally in the country, but I cannot support the idea that these who refuse to leave,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-13-ps-82.u98	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on the LiVM 20/2016 vp, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the Convention and the notification provided for in the Government proposal and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
