ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, arade ledamoter! We were shocked by the terrorist attacks in Brussels. We mourn for the victims of brutal violence and their loved ones. Our sense of security was struck again. The national parliaments and international cooperation of politicians must make greater efforts so that people can continue to be confident that democracy, stability and freedom will prevail. Terroratackerna i Brussels väckte bestörtning hos oss below. Vi sörjer på deras vägnar som föll offer för det brutala våldet och på deras närståendes vägnar. Vår känsla av trygghet fick sig återigen en tön. Politicerna i de nationalella Parliamentten och inom det internationella samarbet måste arbeta hårdare för att vi i framtiden ska kunna lita på att det råder democracyti, frihet och stabilitet. On behalf of Parliament, I would like to express my condolences to all the families and relatives of the victims of the attacks in Brussels and to the Belgian people and to all those living in Belgium. På riksdagens vägnar framför jag kondoleanser till offrens fabillioner och närstående, till det belgiska folket och till alla som lever i Belgien. Vi hedrar where you av offren med en me. We honor the memory of the victims with a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u2	The 7th item of the order of business is presented for the purpose of presenting the interim question. Representatives Henriksson and 67 other representatives have put an intermediate question to the Government about the cuts to higher education and student support on VK 1/2016 vp. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u3	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u4	Madam President! The Law on Metsähallitus, which is now under discussion, did improve somewhat in committee. But the suggestions for improvement made in this Chamber in abundance did not go through before Easter’s reading: there were still major problems with the law. The Left Alliance's line has consistently been that state forestry must continue to be managed responsibly, transparently and democratically, and forestry should not be incorporated. We have put forward alternatives to incorporation, but the government parties have not wanted to take these options into more detail. We still firmly believe that there would have been another solution for the organisation of Metsähallitus' activities. Madam President! In addition to the integration of the forestry sector, the big problem is the so-called third balance sheet item. The third balance sheet item makes it possible to include new areas in economic terms without Parliament knowing about it. Apparently, even the government would not be informed until the end of the financial year. The Ministry of the Three Ms would therefore be allowed to move areas almost freely from one purpose to another. Metsähallitus is much more than just a whiff of green gold. In addition to economic forests and national parks, Metsähallitus has other general social responsibilities. It was a good thing that the committee was able to bring these responsibilities into concrete terms also to the future limited liability company, because it is very important, for example, to take the protection of biodiversity into account also in economic forests. In Metsähallitus, the employer is the state. In addition to developing staff skills and well-being at work, the government's employer should also take care to combat the shadow economy, for example, through its own heavy part. Such greater social responsibility would fall to Metsähallitus. Madam President! Sometimes it seems that the government itself does not know why this law must be defended. Madam President! On these brief grounds, I propose that Parliament rejects the Government's proposal on the legislation on the reorganisation of Metsähallitus.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u5	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Jag är besviken över att riksdage i sin första behandling av Forststyrelselagen inte utnyttjade öjligheten att förbättra samernas ställning som Europas enda ursprungsfolk. FN:s minniskommitttskommitté kontaterade i sin rekommentation 2014 för Finland att samerna saknar befogenheter att delta och påverka i frågor av grundläggande betydelse för deras kultur och livsstil, inklusive frågor som gäller rautten till mark- och naturresurser, och att detta bör rättas till. Den uppmaningen klingade uppenbarligen för döva öron. Även grundlagsutskottet anser i sitt utlåtande att stadganden gällande scötsel och nytjande av statens land- och vattenområden inom sammnas hembygdsområde ska förbättras samt att stadganden som förhindrar en försämring av samekulturen brode ingå i lagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u6	Mr President! The process of processing the Metsähallitus Act has been long and interesting. The law has been passed for many years, but still a bill was brought to Parliament, which has been criticised by a large number of contributors. The basic problem with the law is corporateization. The absence of Sámi lines and the creation of a third balance sheet item also raise legitimate concerns. The question arises as to whether the aim is to produce the raw material needed by the emerging bioeconomy from the state forests at the expense of biodiversity and recreational values. I hope not. The fact is, however, that the EU does not require the forestry business of Metsähallitus to be incorporated. Companying is a problem because it moves management away from democracy, reduces transparency and fragments Metsähallitus Group. There is also a fear of overriding economic interests in the use of land and forests beyond other objectives. When the forest business does not actually compete on the market, it is questionable whether the company’s activities are competitively neutral. And even if it were interpreted that the structure of Metsähallitus needs to be changed on the basis of competitive neutrality, it could be done better than the government's proposal, for example through the establishment of a bankrupt business by law and regulation, or through a special-purpose company of the type Yle or through an independent public-law establishment established by forestry. Mr President! The committee decided to make some very good and necessary changes to the draft law. Thank you for that. However, these changes are not sufficient and do not remove the fact that this bill is a wolf. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to make the following three statements on the table in the legislation on the reorganisation of Metsähallitus. The 1st statement reads as follows: "The commission requires that Metsähallitus be managed in such a way that the full margin of the procurement rules is used to ensure that the proportion of Finnish and local companies and employees remains as high as possible. The above also applies to the size of subcontracting contracts." The second statement I made: "The proposal requires that Metsähallitus' income and income targets be moderated in order to ensure the fulfilment of social obligations and environmental sustainability and that the oversized yield target does not lead to uncontrolled sales of land, forest and water assets." The third statement I made: 'The Parliament requires that transfers between the Natural Services balance sheet and the so-called third balance sheet be made available to Parliament at the time of the transfer'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u7	Madam President! I do find these rejections somewhat irresponsible and am surprised that they are also in conflict with the statements you have made. Are you really prepared now to take the risk that, if the law is rejected, timber trade and harvesting will now have to be opened up to free competition, so that, in the worst case scenario, for example, Chinese motos would then enter the forests of Finland? I am surprised at this approach. It is all right to open this debate on what Metsähallitus's goal is to achieve results. Of course it can be a constructive debate together, but it certainly has nothing to do with this actual bill. This bill now ensures that timber trade and harvesting are maintained in all situations and under all circumstances in national hands. I personally consider this to be extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u8	Mr President! Indeed, this has been justified by the expiry of the deadline for the procurement directive in April, and I think the previous representative also referred to it when he feared that there would be a call for competition. However, this haste and this threatened call for competition are artificial, because even if Metsähallitus' forestry business is incorporated in the form now proposed, there is no need for a concession under the Procurement Directive and there is no call for competition in itself. In other parts of Europe, the Procurement Directive is not considered to have anything to do with state forestry. And even if a company were to be set up, the right of use for a forestry company to state countries can be regulated by law and regulations rather than a concession, so that the threat of these forced competitions for foreigners is fully invented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u9	There are several responses requested. Let's go over them all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u10	Madam President! I can understand Mr Kärnä's extreme defence of this law, but I would like you to have a look at the statements made to the various committees, which have just overturned what you have said. Mr Sarkkinen rightly pointed out what the experts in the committees have said on this matter, and I therefore consider it unreasonable and irresponsible for the representative here to cultivate incorrect information from the opposition, for which there is no justification. It's a representative's own interpretation. I believe in the views of the experts in the committee and base my own opinion and views on them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u11	Madam President! I attended several committee meetings together with Mrs Myllykoski, and I must be surprised whether we have listened to the same experts. It was specifically pointed out that if we were to continue with the old model now and not carry out this incorporation, we would be taking enormous risks with this issue. For myself, I see that this legislative proposal now specifically protects the survival of timber trade and harvesting in all situations and under all circumstances in national hands. And I am still surprised that the left appears to be willing to gamble with our national property. I do not think it is responsible at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u12	Mr President! Well, it's the center that's playing the turnaround of all time, isn't it? Looking back last time, you strongly opposed the incorporation of Metsähallitus and felt it was important to keep it united and in its present state. And now you are the hostage of the government, Mr Kärnä, and you are scaring the citizens of Lapland by the coming Chinese who are taking the land. The truth is that nothing would have to be changed by the EU. No other EU country is in the process of integrating its forestry government activities. You are cultivating this intimidation tactics to hide the fact that you have failed in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u13	Madam President! I am not going to argue here whether we have listened differently in some ways. Fortunately, I am confident that the documents have survived and are included in the report, that they can be checked there. There are professors who have said that there is no need to do this — I am not going to question the expertise of the expert who has debated the subject as a doctor on this issue, and therefore I will stick to my position that these arguments, which are very well-founded and raised by Mr Sarkkinen, are more sustainable than the assessment that perhaps an individual Member of Parliament can obtain deliberately, only in accordance with his own view, from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u14	Mr President! I was also here during the last parliamentary term and as a Lapp Member of Parliament I was opposed to this, but the situation has gone on from there. It was then justified by the Destia case and similar patterns. It is now a matter of the Procurement Directive, which will now come into force on 16 April and which requires action. We have discussed this very much in our group. We have been wondering what the risk is, what the risk situation is in this case, how it can happen. It has been most important for us that the state of Metsähallitus is maintained as much as possible in the current state, and this will remain as close as possible to the present state as possible, so that very few will notice any change in this Metsähallitus activity. I therefore believe that this is the best way forward and not the risk of anything else happening here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u15	Mr President! I am surprised by Mr Kärnä's accusations of irresponsibility. Irresponsibility is on the side of the government factions. If it is true that EU competition law requires this incorporation of search activities — an argument which in itself makes sense, but which is not in itself a problem-free one — then the same bill is surrounded by a crooked pile of things about weakening the status of Metsähallitus' nature services and the steering power of the Ministry of the Environment and, among other things, about things which in practice undermine the protection of the rights of the Sami people from the present state. If you consider this matter, which you have justified by EU competition law, to be necessary, why has the government not brought it to Parliament as such, why is it surrounded by a whole host of other things,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u16	Mr President! The government parties themselves have developed this problem of competitive tendering to a great extent. When incorporated, then the Procurement Act applies, the EU Access Directive applies, and then these decisions must be made. But if we don't, we'd have a completely different chance. In our own protests, we have put forward an alternative, among other things, by developing bankruptcy law, and these are the alternatives that we have followed throughout the drafting of the law. But at no time have the government parties made a serious effort to put forward alternatives. You have been pushing for this incorporation and, as a result of the incorporation, you will be forced to apply this directive on access. This is the vicious circle you've driven this into. But I am interested, President, in the fact that, before the Easter break, some of the representatives of the government parties abstained or abstained. How are the government parties going to behave now? Are you going to call on your own group to have different freedoms while this week's vote on rejection is still being taken? How are the government parties acting now, will they stand by this motion?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u17	Mr President! Yes, it seems that this central party is now in great need of cultivation of unwarranted threats and hiding behind the back of the EU. The question has to be asked why this proposed company structure in the EU has not been recorded in the drafting of legislation. It could have been done, and it should have been done. It is a little strange that no other country is faced with such a coercion and is threatening what the representatives of the city centre are proposing here. It may be necessary to clarify to the extent that, even if the company were to be set up, experts say that the right to use the forestry company's land can be regulated by law and regulation rather than by a concession. In other words, even if Metsähallitus' forestry business is incorporated, this procurement directive is not mandatory, but could instead by law and regulation give access to the company to be established.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u18	Mr President! I cannot go here to accuse anyone, I can only judge from my point of view this need for law and the need to change the law. First of all, of course, we must remember that no other EU country has forestry similar to Finland through Metsähallitus, and it brings us our own special needs. There are different assessments of the need for this law. Personally, I am not prepared to take the risk that the EU regulations, including the EU Procurement Directive, will perhaps allow, so my starting point here is, in a way, this risk minimisation. On the other hand, the fact that the company model has now been chosen, I understand in such a way that, through this, the land and water areas of the state will then form a whole which is appropriate and sensible to manage in one organisation. The company model was a political solution, but I see it as sensible from the point of view of this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u19	Madam President! As Mr Hassi pointed out in his own speech, there are legitimate legal arguments in favour and against this question of incorporation. I also agree with what Mr Hassi has said in the sense that this question of incorporation is not in any way entirely without problems. But I wonder about these other changes to the law when it has been constantly said that nothing changes or very little changes. If very little changes, then of what miracle has this third balance sheet item been created here, why is it necessary? This is something I have tried to ask many times, face to face, for example, from the representatives of the city centre and I have not yet received an answer to it: where did this third balance sheet item come from in this bill, and to what person is it needed? Probably the reason I have not received an answer so far is that there is no answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u20	Madam President! I will continue on the same subject as Mrs. Aalto here above. If we are talking about irresponsibility, then in the legislative work one aspect of irresponsibility is, in my opinion, if the draft law is not properly justified. And in this reform of the Metsähallitus Act, the original intention of which was to comply with this competition law, the original intention is somewhat blurred when there are indeed very many elements of the bill that have been introduced into the package other than that relating to the incorporation of companies or to EU competition law, which can really be justified arguments for and against. I'm the one who's on the other side of the line. I would say that if we propose changes in hundreds of hectares, even millions of hectares, to the different balance sheets of Metsähallitus, new balance sheets and a variety of changes and arguments are entirely political, not factual or from any other need, it is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u21	Madam President! There are few defenders of this law in this Chamber. As has been heard here, this first hides behind the EU's back, which proved to be unsustainable, and after something had to be invented, this procurement directive was invented, which will come into force in mid-April, but there is no need for access under this procurement directive, and it has nothing to do with state forestry. It is surprising that the Finns Party and the Centre Party opposed the same performance last season and are now standing behind it, and this has not been heard and hardly heard. There can be no end to anything other than what Mika Riipi, Head of the Province of Lapland, said today in Avisi, said aloud: The reform of the Metsähallitus Act was completed as a kind of symbol of civil service power in this country. Is that how we want these things to be carried forward as shop stewards?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u22	Madam President! I would like to remind all Members that this is not the same bill that was previously rejected here, but there are significant differences in what the previous government was trying to push through. As far as this third balance sheet is concerned, it has been said several times here that it will only clarify this situation: there will be a transfer of areas which have no commercial use, but they will also have no protection. And if these areas were then to be transferred to the claim for profit, the mechanism is exactly the same as it is today: it is only done by a parliamentary decision. It is, of course, quite gratifying to hear that the Group of the Greens has considered this issue and understands that yes, there are also very strong legal arguments for this incorporation. Of course we can be divided here, but I personally see that this solution is now the best way to ensure that timber trade and harvesting are maintained in national hands, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u23	Madam President! Yes, the Green Parliamentary Group has indeed considered this whole bill, not just the incorporation. A number of amendments have even been tabled by the Group of the Greens at first reading of this bill. You, Mr Kärnä, argued that these draft amendments to the articles were not entirely legal. I did conclude that you have not even read the amendments to the section. I have not heard a statement in committee or from any expert, which is why I made these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u24	Mr President! One cannot help but wonder that the representatives of the centre here, with their claws and teeth, are defending this bill, even though, according to the information in the public domain, you yourself, at the last minute, have brought significant amendments to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which is a sign that there is not a great deal of commitment within the government parties to this bill. In addition, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy gave a rather critical opinion, and last season the Centre was very opposed to the proposed incorporation. Yes, with a very strong criticism all the way from the government parties, but now the motion is being strongly defended, it is amazing. There have also been criticisms of the government parties, such as the European Parliamentarian from the United States, former Minister of the Environment Sirpa. Pietikäinen has expressed his concern about this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u25	Madam President! I appreciate Mr Korhonen's own well-founded view of why he now disagrees with the last period. Value as such; it is a political solution, perhaps on the basis of the risk criterion, which is not a justified risk criterion. But despite that, politics is like this, the mind changes. Regrettably, when this was the government's proposal last season, then the government parties, the Left Alliance and the Social Democrats, together with the opposition parties, the Finns and the Centre Party, were able to stop this and Minister Orpo made the decision not to take forward this preparation. But, Mr Kärnä, it is true that the third balance sheet can be sold in such a way as to generate revenue, and this is where the current situation changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u26	Mr President! Just as Mrs Myllykoski said, this history is: last season, the matter was withdrawn from the House, precisely because the opposition unitedly, the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance were not in favour of integration and Minister Orpo withdrew it. Now, honestly, when you had these negotiations with Sipilä's government, the assembly required the incorporation of Metsähallitus and you agreed to it because these nature services were weakened. That's the truth. Nothing's changed in practice, but you sold your skin in that government conference, and now you're explaining and threatening. It's the people of Lapland that the Chinese come and take your country. Previous group president in the centre At first reading, Mr Tiilikainen fully admitted when Mr Lindtman read his speech that this was true. The central group unanimously opposed, and nothing in this proposal has changed except that: The status of nature services has been weakened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u27	Mr President! That's exactly what Mr. Harry Wallin said. This bill is about much more than just the incorporation of forestry businesses, which government parties are now taking forward, unlike when they were in the opposition last season. But this has now also been brought into this vague third balance sheet. To date, it has not yet opened up, which is why we need such a third balance sheet between core capital and nature conservation capital. It inevitably opens up the question, the possibility that these areas that are transferred to the third balance sheet will later be engaged in a brutal business. What, then, will happen to the values of nature? What will happen to Nature Services? How are these balance sheet transfers made? There are so many question marks here that it would have made sense to continue with a well-functioning two-balance-sheet system at the moment: a clear system in which we have, on the one hand, basic capital and a demand for profits and, on the other hand, public management tasks, nature services, which are responsible for nature conservation tasks. This is clear to the public, but now this third balance sheet is confusing this and the only question remains: why?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u28	Mr President! Once again from this third balance sheet. On the contrary, this clarifies the current situation, and as far as the mechanisms for balance-sheet transfers are concerned, if some areas are transferred from there to the income claim, as is the case today: it is up to Parliament to decide. There is no change in the mechanism in relation to this current situation. I will also return to the rights of the Saami, which have been raised here. It has been argued that the rights of the Saami are being undermined by this legislation. Such a claim is not true. The rights of the Sami people are maintained at exactly the same level as they are today. The rights of the Sámi are taken into account in social obligations concerning the company and apply to the entire Metsähallitus Group. In addition to this, they will be strengthened in these municipalities setting up in Upper Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u29	Mr President! It is quite true that there is no requirement for revenue on the third balance sheet. But the financial side of Metsähallitus will decide how and how much profit will be made from these areas. Thus cannot understand how the creation of this grey zone, the creation of this kind of intermediate form, in any way to clarify the matter. On the contrary, it is becoming an increasingly unclear grey zone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u30	Mr President! The most problematic aspect of nature in this proposal is this three-part structure of economic management and this third balance sheet. Today, large areas of land and water are being transferred to the pursuit of economic profit, and information about the use of these countries would not be openly available to citizens and Parliament. These are important outdoor and hiking areas for all of us, and subjugating them to the pursuit of economic gain is a threat to natural values. I believe that Mr Kärnä is aware of this, too, that this is now creating a grey area between business and nature conservation and opening up the possibility of money being made available in these hiking areas. This proposal also left this management problem, that is to say, the entry in the Government Programme did not reach this right direction in this regard, that we should try to clarify this management system, but that it was the opposite, and I would have liked this to have been corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u31	Mr President! It has been said in some speeches that what falls short of this law is that the nature services of Metsähallitus are being weakened, and this is precisely the one that got the centre involved in this project. That is through the mechanism that has already been said here several times, that is, the balance sheet of nature services can be transferred to this third balance sheet by a government decision, and when nature services are managed from the Ministry of the Environment and then the third balance sheet is managed from Metsähallitus' government, this is the mechanism that causes this uncertainty about what these transfers to the third balance sheet will ultimately be used for over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u32	I shall, in principle, give the floor to the representatives of Hassi, Salolainen and Halmemenpää, in accordance with the order of request. If there's any more burning fire, like the chairman of the committee, he'll get it. — These speeches, then, and now Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u33	Mr President! Mr Kärnä and many others have reiterated that the status of the Sami people remains the same. The legal provisions for the Sami people will remain the same, but the host of the traditional livelihoods of the Sami people, namely, in practice, the reindeer husbandry countries, will change. It is currently the host of Metsähallitus' nature services, but with this third balance sheet it will be Metsähallitus' business management. And all those who have followed these things over the years know that the relationship between Metsähallitus' logging and business management with the Sami is much worse than the nature side of Metsähallitus. In practice, this entity, which this law contains, will weaken the lives of the Sámi, and that is why it is a very bad thing that the government parties have not accepted in this law what is in many other laws, that is, an article that would prohibit the situation of the Sámi and the potential of traditional livelihoods in Sámi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u34	Mr President! I have not been in committee to deal with this issue, but there are some aspects that amaze me, and I have not received a satisfactory response to them during this debate and not before, although I have tried to get to grips with this very thoroughly. Firstly, why was it necessary to do this deception operation with the help of the EU — in such a way that the EU would have insisted on this? I do not understand that this is the case; the EU has not necessarily required this of us, but other arrangements could have been made. So why was it necessary? The second is why this third balance sheet must be made if it does not want to operate in some wonderful way sometime in the future. It is absolutely pointless to do this, because in this way only this kind of loose area, the grey area where it is easier to operate, among other things contrary to the nature conservation spirit. In this way, this is a law contrary to my values, this change, and I will not vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u35	Mr President! Mr Salolainen asked a key question about the third balance sheet. It's just that we've never been able to get an answer at any point in the procedure. If the purpose of the third balance sheet is to clarify the use of Metsähallitus areas and the division of the balance sheet, then the definition of the third balance sheet should be clear, but that is not what it is. I believe that the third balance sheet should include those land and water areas which are not strictly protected but which are not clearly covered by economic use. However, this did not happen. Among other things, 40000 hectares of Upper Lapland recreational forests were transferred to the business balance sheet. It's not like they're supposed to be on that business side, according to this logic. Furthermore, it is wrong to claim that this bill improves the position of the Sami people. Apart from the weakening of these regional transfers, it does not improve in the municipalities of the Sámi region, where the Sámi are not a majority but a minority.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u36	Mr. Speaker! There are wonderful wordings used here: a diversion operation, abuses. Now I would like to ask what abuses, for example, Mrs Ojala-Niemela meant. What abuses...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u39	Mr President! It is all right that things are dealt with so openly and that we are allowed to express our opinion. It's a great value in itself. This law also left these competition neutrality issues. I cannot say what the European Commission's position on this issue of competitiveness is. It is true that in this country we are brutally riding and threatening that the Commission will intervene in it and in this and that, which is very sad in itself. At one time the Moscow card was used, now the Brussels card is used, which I find quite incredible in terms of democracy. For example, the Commission's Court of Justice asked for preliminary rulings on Natura, but the Supreme Administrative Court and Pekka Hallberg prevented it, even if it had a genuine opportunity to deal with the matter in style and to obtain a preliminary ruling, as should be the case, in which case it would be open to all and safe for us from the point of view of Community law. But it did not agree with the Greens that this kind of thing could be done. As far as Mr Salolainen's position on doing so or so with nature conservation is concerned, I would like to welcome Pertti Salolainen to Ilomants to see what has been done in the state's land as conservation measures: felling trees, blasting and smashing roads and cutting down forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u40	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u41	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. The motion for rejection made by Myllykoski concerning these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u42	Mr President! The SDP considers that the Forest Management Act as a whole needs to be recast. We support the motion for rejection which has been tabled, as Mrs Wallin has said here — and the arguments do exist, they have not been overturned here. First of all, we do not support this proposal as a law from a separate forestry company to Metsähallitus. In our view, these things that the EU requires can be organised beyond the incorporation of companies. And it certainly seems that the government itself has created this competition troll, because if a company is to be formed, then the procurement directive must be complied with, then the EU Access Directive applies, but if it is not incorporated, if things are done differently, then this is not the case. This is a domestic problem, and at no time has this been studied so thoroughly that the conclusion is not valid that there is no obligation to enter into a company. We also question this third balance sheet. It has been questioned here, among other things, by experienced Pertti Salolainen, quite rightly. It does create the suspicion that, in due course, countries and waters will be transferred from that balance sheet under the Nature Services to this so-called third balance sheet or from that third balance sheet to that capital under the claim for income. And this whole system is going crazy, because it is just as Mr Myller here said that nature services are managed by the Ministry of the Environment, but this third balance sheet and the claim for profits belong to the Metsähallitus Government and thus inevitably to a tougher business logic. And this is a risk: this threatens everyman's rights, this threatens fishing rights, hunting rights, all the recreational aspects that are important to Finns. This comes to this management system, which is the third reason why we criticise this bill. Yes, the management system needs to be clarified, but it is unrealistic to imagine that Metsähallitus could only include the voice of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Nature services are managed by the Ministry of the Environment, and we want the Ministry of the Environment to have a voice in Metsähallitus. There is nothing left of this, Mr President, except the fact that the law needs to be recast.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u43	Mr President! In the course of this examination of the law, the impression has been confirmed that the arguments put forward by the government about this law are extremely problematic. It has also become apparent that the representatives of the government parties are also unable to justify this government proposal, except that it is politically appropriate. I think that we should then discuss what is precisely the political relevance here, and yes, what is missing is that through this we want Metsähallitus' nature services to be weakened and also to weaken the guidance of the Ministry of the Environment within Metsähallitus. It has been an extremely good system that has been in Finland at the moment. It has also been possible to reconcile hiking, nature conservation and forestry needs within the forestry sector and in this way to ensure that natural tourism, for example, has been sufficiently well equipped. And here is what nature tourism companies are afraid of: they fear the future when this third balance sheet is introduced, which is managed by the Metsähallitus Government, which is here from the business side. The current activities carried out by these nature entrepreneurs in cooperation with Nature Services have been very successful. And we must also remember that forestry is important to Finland, that bioeconomy is important to Finland, but bioeconomy is more than just forestry,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u44	And now it would have been two minutes, and it looks like the congressman is quitting. — Next, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u45	Mr President! This law has also been justified in this sitting by EU competition law, but it is essentially a front behind which changes are being made which the Greens oppose, and we will therefore vote in favour of the rejection proposal in the final vote. This law weakens the status of Metsähallitus nature services and the guidance of the Ministry of the Environment. The most important of these weaknesses is the third balance sheet that has been mentioned here, which is completely unclear and which has also been legally implemented in a very questionable way, when it is not in the articles, but only in the explanatory statement. The only argument I have received from experts at the meetings of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for setting up this third balance sheet is the statement by the lawmaker of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry that this is intended to facilitate the economic deterioration of these areas which are moving to the third balance sheet. As I have already said, the establishment of this third balance sheet in practice weakens the position of the Sámi, as the Sámi reindeer management areas of Upper Lapland are in practice transferred from Metsähallitus's management of nature services to the management of the business side of Metsähallitus. The steering powers of the Ministry of the Environment are also weakened by the fact that, so far, the Ministry has directed the business side of Metsähallitus, including as regards the protection of activities in economic forests, biodiversity, biodiversity, this issue is now removed. All in all, this is
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u46	Mr President! It has already been heard here on many occasions that the EU does not require that forestry activities of Metsähallitus be limited to a limited company. It is true that neutrality must be implemented and this requires the abolition of the tax advantage and bankruptcy protection, but it would have been feasible in many other ways than now with this limited liability company. Among other things, it would have been possible to create a bankrupt business entity or a Yle-type special purpose company, to name a few. Well, as a result, as regards the content of this bill, the management system is still confused. In this respect, the Government Programme’s statement on its clarification is not fulfilled. Metsähallitus can continue to speak with two votes, which is a problem. Furthermore, this third balance sheet has been highlighted here. From a natural point of view, it is a problem that we are talking about areas of great importance to us all, such as outdoors and hiking, and about subjugating them to the pursuit of economic gain. It is a threat to natural values in the future. It is surprising, though, why the Finns and the people in the centre, who opposed this same performance last season, are now standing behind it. I say to Mrs Levä that I hope that you will not give false testimony to colleagues. I have not mentioned any abuses in this connection. This is certainly verifiable from those protocols. In addition, if this public limited liability company were to be wound up, this incorporation would not, however, guarantee the neutrality of EU-subsidised competition. In this respect, I would have liked this to have been notified in advance, when it would have been certain that this was the case. As far as tourists are concerned, this question has been too limited in Lapland as a whole. This includes:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u47	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u48	Herr Talman! Jag vill töda Mats Nylunds förslag, som Han framförde raus tidigare.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u49	Mr President! This debate has been very interesting, and I would like to emphasise one more aspect of this. It is that, in general, it clarifies the way things are handled, but then it also transfers political power to officials and to a much smaller sphere of influence. Of course, this is such a big choice that if you go down this road, it is important to see what is at the other end of it. These balancing units operate in the same way in the municipal economy, and especially in large cities they are used to correct the decision-making process, and often then at the end of the road there is the fact that they lead to more and more units being incorporated. In this way, that political decision-making will then be differentiated from the huge, large entities that should be discussed together, and perhaps monitoring would be important, so the big question is what serves the whole. I am not an expert on forestry, but I am thinking out loud about this, which is the path that is now being opened and chosen. I very much understand the concern of these objections here, because there are practical examples of local government finances, that when you take that decision away to a very small district, then it is easy to do a great deal of damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u50	Mr President! We in the Left Alliance have been very concerned about the state of nature services in the order of this bill. If this method of incorporation is taken forward, the result targets set for this future company will certainly bring pressure to bear on the forestry sector, adding more fellings to those areas. This will affect the efficiency and benefits of tourism in these hiking areas and thus in the region, and it will be visible all over Finland. The attractiveness of these areas suffers from these fellings, that is a sure thing. We believe that in these areas the role of Metsähallitus should continue where it has been so far. It has been a conservation of biodiversity, which has been a good thing. We must remember that we must cherish this natural heritage, we must also leave it to future generations and give a good impression of good management of nature. This is what Metsähallitus has done so far with the current solution. That is why we in the Left Alliance want to maintain this current approach, to develop it even better as it sustains nature. That is why I support Mr Myllykoski and Mr Sarkkinen's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u51	Mr President! Metsähallitus is a very important issue for us, especially for us Laplanders. Especially in Savukoski, where I live, there is a life condition for us to get things done properly and with honor. We have now made the choice of how this law makes sense to move forward, and I am pleased with the solution that has been reached here. A solution has been found here, with as little change as possible to the current situation. This is what we have done, hopefully, to achieve competitiveness, and that is to say that we are able to take things forward. After all, in practice, the whole of this legislative change is simply a matter of changing the form of state forestry business to be managed by the public limited liability company model. There are virtually no other matters in this law, otherwise in practice there is a slight fine-tuning. What matters now is for all of us what happens after this law. In other words, when this law comes into force, there are many practical issues under discussion, such as the distribution of tax revenue to municipalities in Lapland. It is really important for our municipality to have the right distribution of tax revenue. There are many other practical issues and, if they are to be implemented in line with this government's proposal, we must look into these matters. One thing I think I should look after with you is that the demand for profits must no longer rise. It is already 130 million, which is far too much — our forests, in my opinion, do not stand up to such a requirement, but it is not at all a question of what is the form of company, but of the over-requirement. It is good that this bill is now completed, because this will bring peace to the staff as well, and now the employees of Metsähallitus will have peace of work here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u52	President! It seems that, in the context of this law, you can both support and oppose this reform of the law on the same basis. That is exactly what many here have said: Metsähallitus has worked well at the moment, it has gained very great acceptance and very great popularity, as many, many of its services have done. They will certainly continue to be free-of-charge services in the same way as they have been so far. There will be no changes. Then two things, Mr President, I would like to say at the end. It is quite clear that Metsähallitus never fully achieves that it does not speak with two votes. It is quite clear — it is governed by two ministries, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and both play an important role. They do not want to change those roles and this role; rather, it will remain the same. It is an important observation, and therefore there will certainly also be two different opinions from within Metsähallitus. Then I would also like to remind you that Metsähallitus' target for results is now and will continue to be set by a single institution and that it is a parliament. No one else. It is a parliament: if it requires more or less of it, it is up to the parliamentarians and no one else to set this matter up. It is not decided by either ministry, nor by the Metsähallitus, but by the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u53	Mr President! In discussions on this bill, we have heard from government parties on several occasions that there is nothing to worry about, nothing will change. I have already asked why this bill has been brought before, if it is intended that nothing will change, and if, even after the draft law has been drafted, it is said that nothing will change. I would like to point out that I do not agree with that. I think that, with this bill coming true, a lot of things are going to change. Metsähallitus' operations will be consolidated, the Ministry of the Environment's steering powers will be significantly reduced, more than 2.5 million hectares of land and water currently controlled by Metsähallitus' natural services will be transferred to the Board of Directors of Business and Metsähallitus. At the same time, nature services are being undermined. This bill even reduces Parliament's decision-making powers regarding balance sheet transfers between the new third balance sheet, to be established and the Natural Services balance sheet. I wouldn't say nothing changes, quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u54	Mr President! I wish I could say that I would like to repeat what Mrs Halmemenpää said. In particular, however, I would like to raise the point made by Mr Laukkanen: what will this mean in the future? Mrs Majala pointed out that we must then consider carefully what we are going to do in the future. Legislation should be built in such a way that such consideration should not be used but that we should know what the legislation leads to. In that sense, the lengthy process of drafting the law has not met the requirements of drafting the law that I, as a Member of Parliament, feel that it was necessary to take into account in advance what is going to happen. This really narrows the decision-making power of the Finnish Parliament on the Finnish nature and biodiversity of natural values. It is only a fact because decisions are made on the third balance sheet by the Government and it is possible to make transfers between the balance sheet without the will of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u55	Mr President! As far as this is concerned, the last point was made, on the part of the municipality, once the balance sheet model has been introduced or some lighter company model has been introduced, then the management rules and internal guidelines will be changed, and that power will then be removed from the political field. This is what we will have to do in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u56	Mr President! I would just like to say to Mrs Myllykoski here that this bill does not undermine Parliament's ability to influence these activities. This bill clarifies the operations and working methods of Metsähallitus' Board of Directors. Moreover, the traditional approach is that when a legal decision is taken, it will then be put into practice. Not all small things have been taken into account in advance in all matters, and the application of this law is now something that we really must consider to be properly dealt with in all matters according to what we have meant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u57	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u58	Mr President! We very much welcome the harmonisation of the regulation of social and health care professionals and the transition from specific qualification requirements to the granting of the right to self-employment and the protection of the title. This ensures the quality of services, equality of professionals and the rights of different customers and customer groups. The reform of the role structure of social welfare and health care is still ongoing. For this reason, it is important that the structure and division of labour between social and health care personnel should continue to be developed in the future. Mr President! According to the Act on Social Welfare Professionals, a person studying for a social worker's occupation may temporarily work for a maximum of one year, who has successfully completed studies and practical training in social work. The student operates under the management and supervision of a social worker who has graduated from the profession. However, the Government Programme includes a programme of measures to reduce the tasks and obligations of municipalities. One part of it has been mentioned is the relaxation of this so-called substitution clause. Although the amendment of the bill relating to the replacement of a social worker is not included in the government proposal, the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health calls for the implementation of the action programme to be speeded up. However, we do not have any information on the more precise content of the operational programme and the committee has not heard a single expert. We therefore believe that the situation does not give the committee any reason to rush these measures. That is why we do not accept the report of the committee on the operational programme. Mr President! On these grounds, we propose that the last two paragraphs of the committee report 3/2016 be deleted from the explanatory memorandum in accordance with our objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u59	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u60	Mr President! There are also such concerns as whether a new grade is being created here, that when there is a certain person whose level of education does not quite reach the job in which he is temporarily hired, he can be hired to do so on a lower salary as to whether such situations arise. I think that the wording put forward in this objection is very good, although I do not support it now, but I see it as a very important concern. I consider this to be extremely bad in terms of preparation that we are being brought here with proposals that have not been consulted by experts. For that reason, the committees have time to listen to the experts and then bring a report or opinion on the basis of consultation with the experts. An attempt is now being made to introduce a proposal and an addition which is not related to the expert opinion, and this is a very unusual practice. This is not something you should do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u61	The 10th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 1/2016 vp is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then at second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u62	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u63	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the driving licence law, and I think it is necessary and appropriate. Often a new driving licence has to be applied for, for example, because of the theft of a driving licence or because of a change of name. According to this proposal, a duplicate, like any other driving licence, would only be granted for a period of 5 or 15 years, depending on the category of driving licence, which is, as a general rule, reasonable and justified. I believe that an exception could have been made for professional drivers in particular. Renewal of driving rights every five years for them is unnecessary. The required and adequate medical certificates of driver’s health should be sufficient. Traffic medicine should be put in the position it deserves anyway. For example, in the case of fatal accidents and statistics from the Finnish Motor Insurance Agency, health-related accidents had peaked as early as 2014: sickness and unconsciousness attacks 21, self-destruction 17, alcohol 17 and falling asleep 8 per cent, vehicle and observation errors and others about 10 per cent. In other words, in fatal accidents, the driver’s health seems to be very important. These issues cannot be changed by, for example, automatic or traditional traffic control, not even by this amendment to the driving licence law in accordance with the proposal. Thus, transport medicine is indeed crucial to the future development of road safety and should be further developed. Four deaths have already occurred in the province of North Karelia this year, for example. Every year too many of these accidents also seem to be intentional. The worst time seems to be spring. As the sap starts to flow from birch and the light increases, self - destructiveness in traffic increases. You'd think spring would be the best time for a human being. But that is not what it is for everyone. The annual number of suicides in traffic has remained the same, even though suicides have decreased. According to the Accident Investigation Boards of the Finnish Motor Insurance Agency, an average of 10 per cent of the accidents leading to death each year have been deliberately caused. I believe that there are many more of these events, but they are not wanted to be recorded as suicides just for the sake of the family. In order to reduce suicides in traffic, a change in the driving licence law as it stands will not bring much change. Mr President! The new deadlines will also apply to the future driving licence law, regardless of how long the licence issued previously would have been valid. Driving licences will therefore have to be renewed more frequently in the future, and this will cause extra effort and additional costs for the holders of these licences. In the past, it cost EUR 42 to obtain a driving licence, and hopefully only EUR 20 in the future. However, this is not the government’s ambition to dismantle the norm. According to the proposal, the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, Trafi, has developed a functional and flexible application procedure for the application of driving licences for electronic services. Hope, of course, that this electronic service will play better than Mavi's electronic system, which has already been developed by more than EUR 5 million, and it still does not work than when receiving applications. If Trafi's electronic system works, as we all hope, it will not be necessary to visit the issuing authority during the application procedure, and this is a very positive thing. The new licence should also be valid as an official identity document, which it is not at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u64	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-29-ps-28.u65	Mr President! The Government is proposing to Parliament to supplement the amending budget. This is an increase of EUR 38 million in the risk management of cash investments. This increases the need for net government borrowing, estimated at EUR 5.4 billion this year. It is very difficult to understand why the government does not complete the amending budget by increasing subsidies. Is it because the government sees the responsibility of the state for unemployment differently from that of the opposition? The government imposes responsibility on individuals, and people themselves should solve the problem of unemployment. In the opinion of the SDP, the state must be in the process of solving the unemployment problem and the state cannot withdraw its responsibilities and abandon people to their own devices. In our view, unemployment is more a failure of society and state economic policy, not a failure of people. Unemployment is not a lifestyle choice; it is usually a question of job vacancies not being available. I believe that the constitutional right of citizens to work requires measures and funding from public authorities in such a weak economic period. The whole welfare state is based on employment as comprehensive as possible and the basic idea of 'everyone according to their abilities, for everyone according to their needs'. If participation in society weakens, the foundation of well-being is shaken. In order to achieve equality and fundamental rights, and to enable full Community membership and social citizenship, particularly for disadvantaged people such as young people, there is a need for positive special treatment. Young people find it most difficult to get the first job, because employers want to employ those who already have work experience. There is no doubt that state subsidies play a key role in the employment of the unemployed, especially young people and the long-term unemployed. From the point of view of the positive effects of the wage subsidy scheme, it is incomprehensible that it is being dismantled both by reducing and redirecting the pay subsidy budget. A third sector wage subsidy policy and cut-off would be almost a complete shutdown. Mr President! Job seekers must be considered capable of work. Studies show that young unemployed people are marginalized very quickly. It's been three months of unemployment that makes a young man's life a mess. Unemployed young people are far less satisfied with their own lives than others. Young people in particular, whose unemployment has been prolonged for more than six months, are less satisfied than their whole lives. Especially for these young people who do not yet have experience in working life, wage support offers concrete opportunities to get a foot in the door to work, to get paid, to maintain mental well-being, physical activity and to manage everyday life. Young people have experience of participation, cohesion and the management of labour market criteria. All of this is undeniably the acquisition of the necessary experience in working life. Pay support clearly contributes to young people’s ability to move forward to a free labour market or to education and training. Young people and the long-term unemployed are not the only ones benefiting from the pay subsidy system, as the benefit of the pay subsidy system is also enjoyed by public benefit organisations and our civil society as a whole. It will enable third sector operators to provide services which will contribute to complement municipal services, such as social welfare and health organisations in particular. From these non-profit organisations, the money is not poured into tax havens, but is poured into the local and state treasury as tax revenue on wages. Recent information from third sector organisations speaks harshly: wage subsidies have already ceased in the early part of the year, aid is granted only on a selective basis, it is limited to three or six months, when too short periods of work are of little use, aid is granted only to associations engaged in economic activities and not to associations of general interest at all. It is quite clear that there is far too little employment money in relation to the need and that we must quickly get an additional budget to avoid a catastrophic situation. Employment appropriations would be sufficient for the whole year if the government were to authorise the share of unemployment benefit paid by the State, i.e. basic daily allowance, labour market support and the basic part of earnings-related daily allowance, to be used as wage subsidies. In this respect, the government would receive the support of the SDP and the social partners. There is a common concern about unemployment. It would be hoped that the means to resolve it would be shared.
