ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on Tuesday, 20 September 2016. The debate will continue at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the 4th to 22th agenda. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u2	Madam President, the värderade talman! An amount of EUR 916 million is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. Without taking into account variable annual electoral expenditure, the level of appropriations in the administrative sector is EUR 16 million lower than in the current year. The financial situation of the administrative offices of the Ministry of Justice in the current and also next year is good, except for the Legal Register Centre. The financial situation of the Legal Register Centre will be improved by an intra-administrative transfer of EUR 200000 in the draft budget for the year 17. I am particularly pleased that the spring budgetary plan decided on a significant additional allocation for the Criminal Sanctions Agency to safeguard the institution's operational capacity and maintain the prison network. Savings affecting the functioning of administrative agencies will increase in the coming years. The so-called 'transferable appropriations' of the agencies, which are at a good level, will also be able to cope with this challenge. It is important to continue with determined economic management and efficiency. The aim is to ensure that legal protection is put into practice. Legal security will be developed through the implementation of a judicial reform programme in line with the newly completed implementation programme. The number of district courts is to be reduced by the formation of larger units. The aim of the reform is to create the conditions for improving the quality of justice and to make better use of the expertise of judges and to improve the efficiency of the courts. The disadvantages of longer distances in structural reform will be reduced by increasing access to e-services and non-place-based working methods. Uncontested debt cases and other civil matters are to be concentrated in a few district courts, for which a Government proposal is to be submitted in spring 2017. The structure of the Legal Aid Offices will be reformed with 16 reforms that will enter into force in October, the effects of which will be evident from 2017. The aim is to streamline and clarify governance so that more resources can be allocated to customer work in the future. Six legal aid districts are formed into six agencies. The reform is not intended to make changes to the offices. The employment incentive traps associated with enforcement are dismantled. Facilitate enforcement in order to encourage employment and facilitate the position of low-income over-indebted persons. Preparations for changes will be launched this autumn. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, five large-scale operations reform projects are under way with the help of the ict. The total cost of the projects is more than EUR 100 million, of which approximately 60% will be covered by additional funding. The purpose of the Ict projects is to improve the efficiency of the courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the enforcement service and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. An amount of EUR 17 million is proposed for the development of information systems for the year 17. In addition, EUR 3 million is proposed to equip the General Court Chambers with the equipment required for the electronic processing of the material. Parliament has accepted the proposals in the Government's proposal to amend the foreign law and certain related laws. The amendments entered into force on 1 September 2016. In the future, as a legal assistant in administrative proceedings, the public legal adviser to the Legal Aid Office is mainly under the Legal Aid Act, which means a shift in the focus from private legal aid to public legal aid in the field of asylum. An appropriation of EUR 8 million is proposed for compensation equivalent to the confiscation of property by the State. In criminal matters, the plaintiff has the possibility to apply to the Register Centre for compensation in cases where the proceeds of the crime have been confiscated to the State and the loss penalty has been put into practice. The principle is that the offender is not obliged to pay twice the proceeds of the crime. In 17 C.E., the organisational reform of the Public Prosecutor’s Office will be prepared from the operational point of view so that the new organisation can start from the beginning of 18 C.E. The activities of the Criminal Sanctions Agency will be developed in the current prison network. In order to ensure operational capacity, an increase of EUR 3.7 million is proposed to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. Construction of the Hämeenlinna women's prison, the open prison in Kerava and the new building in Jyväskylä will begin during the year 17. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u3	It is now possible to have a debate on this issue. I'll ask you to sign up for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u4	Mr President! A functioning judiciary is a stone base. That is the basis of our prosperity, but also of our competitiveness. And that is where the Minister of Justice very well listed these reforms that are going on. They are very much in line with the judicial reform programme, as they should be. I have to say that the Ministry of Justice is currently in a state of affairs, reforms are being made. The great thing is, in particular, that the criminal procedure is further reduced — it has already been reduced. Such simple matters can be handled much lighterly, and when it is accompanied by a penalty claim, i.e. an extension of the scope of the fine, the processes will be reduced in a good way. However, I would like to ask about this matter of the conversion of the fine, which has been mentioned here. It is close to my heart and close to the hearts of honest merchants. What schedule will it be, and what kind of process will it be? Will it be a light process or a heavy process, just as this one was? I'd like some more information on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u5	Irade the Talman! Last night, the Prime Minister spoke about these consequences of Nazism and racism and its expansion or stronger appearance in Finland and the government's desire to do everything in its power to resist it. The Ministry of Justice has a democracy promotion unit. It is also accompanied by an office of special advisers, and ETNO is also associated with it. However, it does not appear from the budget that there are any specific contributions from the government in this area. It seems strange that, in this situation, there was no desire to invest in these. At the same time, gender equality work, for example, seems to be losing ground, as there are plans to abolish or merge the gender equality Ombudsman with the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman. What are the reasons behind such weakenings, when at the moment it is precisely to monitor human rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u6	Madam President! Last year, a strong effort was made to combat the shadow economy. In addition to the construction sector, these activities were best tackled in the transport and scrap sectors, in the control of environmental crime and in the special collection of enforcement. For example, the reverse VAT system and this tax number in the construction sector, as well as the written lists of persons in the construction sites and the notification of works and workers to the tax authorities, increased tax revenues and eased unfair competition. These extra euros paid for themselves. Further efforts would now also be needed in the prosecution, enforcement and bankruptcy control. I would ask the Minister: would this additional funding not make sense because it strengthens the implementation of criminal liability and brings significant benefits to the state?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u7	Mr President! The Ministry of Justice’s administration estimates that the number of unemployed will continue to remain at a high level, and this is certainly not surprising for us. But there is also talk here that household indebtedness and incomeless households have continued to grow and there is no significant change. Furthermore, it is also mentioned that the number of new default labels and persons entered in the credit register has been increasing for a long time. At the moment, we have about 36,000 people with a default mark, and this number is increasing. I have learned that very many young adults and young people receive payment default labels on such minor issues, such as the indemnities of the library's loan payments and then these tickets for tickets for travel and for failing to pay health care fees, i.e. there are very many of them that become credit default marks directly. Could these things in any way be cleaned out so that these things will not come in vain?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u8	Madam President! I would have asked the Minister: are you concerned about the reform of the district court, how it will affect citizens' legal security and how we can achieve good objectives in themselves for the introduction of e-services? Would it still be possible to maintain a place of business in certain localities even if these district courts are reduced? Have you considered this option yet, and have you received an adequate explanation of the impact of the previous reform of the district court network? Has this cutting-off brought those desired savings?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u9	Mr President! There are many major reforms in this administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, and one really is connected to this district court network. It now appears that the same regional cities will be affected by the contractions in several administrative sectors in the adjustment measures of central government. Has it now been estimated on the Ministry of Justice’s side that if the municipalities have such willingness to accept, for example, the district court’s seats — and here I am referring, for example, to Iisalma or Raahe — could they continue to operate in these municipalities? And another eternity project, the renovation of Pelso Prison. Vanhanen Board of Directors 2008 decided to develop Pelso Prison and implement investments. It's getting closer to a decade. Will Minister Lindström be a minister who will complete this long process? Now the health authorities have required these old compartments to be dismantled, and Pelso is threatened by riverbanks. But you have the opportunity, Minister, to become a hero in the north and one investment also targets Northern Finland in relation to Pelso Prison.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u10	Madam President! A lot of reforms are now taking place in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, and it seems that these ict reforms, in particular, are intended to address the continuing shortage of human resources. At the moment, for example, the prosecutor's office is considering that the resources are already so modest at the moment, and even more of the resources will be exported over the next two years, EUR 30 million, and they are quite right to ask, and it is now time for politicians to tell us what we are not doing. So, according to the news from there, the situation is quite worrying. Then one of the key issues is that fundamental and human rights are realised, that the legal system is responsible for this. Now, if you can't even investigate enough things at police level at the moment, to go through prosecution processes, let alone go through court proceedings in sufficient time, how can citizens' legal protection be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u11	Madam President! In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice there is indeed a whole series of important and important reforms going on, and it is good that additional resources are now being invested, for example, in reforming the information systems, as well as in equipping the Chambers and making them operational electronically. An important process is under way for asylum seekers, and in this budget, EUR 19 million is proposed for matters relating to legal protection and family reunification of asylum seekers, allocated to administrative rights and legal aid. I would have asked: how will this situation be monitored, and is it intended to assess the adequacy of this along the way? However, the intention is that complaints about asylum applications should not otherwise slow down judicial processes. And it would be important for the courts to function smoothly in the future, even though this situation of asylum seekers will certainly burden these courts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u12	Mr Skinner before the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u13	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. I would also like to express my concern here that I wonder how one man, one minister, can carry out the job of both the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Justice. That's the kind of super-human I wouldn't think of, and I don't think robotization will solve this problem either. But then the legislation and its quality. On too many occasions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we have seen the fact that the drafting and quality of legislation is not at the level it should have under the rule of law. It is not a case of individuality, it is a case of repeated occurrence. How are you, Minister, going to put this in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u14	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u15	Mr President! With regard to Mr Tolvanen's question, I will start with this conversion penalty and the timetable and what it now applies for when, in due course, Parliament has required the Government to examine without delay this possibility of simplifying and reducing the procedure for the conversion penalty. This is, of course, the guide on which we are working, and it will be explained in accordance with this statement, and the aim is to submit a government proposal to Parliament this year. The transfer of tasks to the Criminal Sanctions Agency from enforcement to enforcement of the conversion penalty will then be examined separately. Here's the answer. Representative Biaudet spoke of racism, ETNO, delegates. If these delegates were to take off, then the equality and equality ombudsmen, when these discussions have taken place and their statements have been received, at least I have the impression that they themselves do not have any objection to combining these tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u18	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u19	Madam President! Additional funding to combat the shadow economy for the prosecution, enforcement authorities, bankruptcy control, Customs and labour protection authorities would strengthen the enforcement of criminal liability in financial crime cases. It would bring significant additional revenue in the form of a confiscence of the proceeds of crime. In this way it would probably also pay itself as an investment back to the State. This is why the SDP proposes such additional funding for the budget. An effective fight against the shadow economy is of the utmost importance. We see, in the case of workers posted from the government's proposal, this modest amount of compensation, a clear reluctance to curb illegal cabotage and thus the implementation of the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u20	Madam President! Finland is considered to be a reliable, fair and secure rule of law. If we also want Finland to remain in this way, the resources and the operating environment of the Ministry of Justice must be at an adequate level. Finnish legal protection must also be implemented in the future, as has already been said here. This draft budget will develop and adapt legal protection to a tightening economy on the basis of the guidelines of the Justice Reform Programme for 2013-2025. Personally, I welcome the fact that the current prison network is being developed specifically within the current network and that it is keeping itself out of the previous, wooing line. I hope that this line will continue and that the Pelso prison will also have its permanent status in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u21	Mr President! I thank the Minister for his presentation. I would have asked you a few questions and commented. We have also had concerns about the fact that the resources of the courts are sufficient for our legal security and for an effective trial. There has been a proposal here to concentrate these uncontested debts and certain civil matters, and I would perhaps have asked what these civil matters mean in greater detail. This is a great thing. Has it been thought that they might even be transferred to other authorities where resources could be found? Local Register Offices, for example, have sometimes been considered to solve these uncontested divorces. Have I understood correctly that even though the network of legal aid offices is being centralised, there will be no reduction in the number of offices, i.e. the availability of assistants will be ensured throughout the country? Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, How is the reform of insurance law? It's going to be a lot of questions for the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u22	Mr President! I would like to raise the same issue that has already been raised here by Mr Ojala-Niemelä and Mr Kymäläinen, namely the financing of the fight against the shadow economy. This is one of the points where it is also possible for the state to receive additional income in these difficult times. That is why the Social Democrats have been concerned about the budget for combating the shadow economy. We have proposed them to be added. The SDP has put forward more than 20 points in the programme to combat the shadow economy, and Minister Lindström has previously responded positively to our proposals, at least some of them. I would now like to ask the Minister how, and in what timetable, you are taking forward these socialist proposals to make a real effort to combat the shadow economy and then apply for more funding for the Finnish State.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u23	Madam President! I would like to ask Mr Lindström two questions, both of which relate to the online world. The second is this project for the development of information systems, which you are about to launch and which will receive additional funding next year. I would like to ask: have you taken into account in this project that the project is actually being carried out well, so that we do not, for example, end up in a journalist trap? On the other hand, have you considered open source opportunities, for example, as part of this project? The second question relates to online votes, on which the Government's report on democracy provides an experiment, and the Ministry of Justice's online voting team in 2015 has also concluded that despite its problems, it is worth trying online voting in municipal advisory votes, for example. I would like to ask: is this going forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u24	Mr President! Minister Lindström, this grey economy is now the main issue in your sector. You have all the tools available here. Society loses billions of billions of tax dollars each year, and others are forced to pay these lost taxes in their own taxes. Minister Lindström, a year ago here, when the SDP presented its own programme to combat the shadow economy, the 20th programme, which also contains proposals that do not require money to eradicate the shadow economy, you promised that you would take those issues forward within the government. Now the representatives of Ojala-Niemelä, Kymäläinen and Sanna Marin raised a very important issue, specifically the resources for combating the shadow economy. But what you promised to bring inside the government was this criminalization of the payment of underpaid wages. Minister Lindström, what progress has been made in combating the shadow economy, when the payment of underpaid wages will be criminalised,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u25	Madam President! In the budget debate, the government decided that it would take steps to increase and improve labour mobility. That is one of your second ministerial duties, but this is also a matter for the Ministry of Justice's property at that point, that is to say, people who are currently in default who have payments in recovery and enforcement, as if they are trapped in the localities where they are at the moment, because it is very difficult to move after work in a locality when, for example, they cannot make a rental agreement or receive funding for short-term loans, in return for the guarantee rent. How do you intend to approach this question so that a new start can be made for people with financial difficulties by changing the locality for work and thus by getting a new start in life and also by paying for it in due course on their own income?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u26	Mr President! It is extremely important that we have effective justice and that we invest enough in it. The Minister said that he was pleased with this budget for next year. Personally, I would be concerned about the future as far as justice is concerned. We already know today that we have cases in which the police do not have time to investigate and the charges expire. Are you concerned about this? Then there is the second point: the reform of the district court. After all, the government is now concentrating enormously not only on health care but also on justice. What criteria have now been used to reduce district courts from 27 to 20, and why are four bilingual district courts? What criteria will also be used for the closure of these seats when, for example, the seat on Pietarsaari, which has been specifically introduced, is abolished and Kauhava will remain? Do you think it makes any difference that another government partner is very strong in Kauhava?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u27	One last speech before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u28	Madam President! The government intends to double the number of speeding tickets, and the debate has also focused on the reduction of the fine limit to 5 kilometres per hour. It is clear that traffic rules must be respected and speed limits must not be exceeded. However, it would be essential for traffic control and police resources to focus on real problems. If the fine limit were to be reduced, the possibility of a complaint would in practice be completely excluded from the range and would also multiply the number of driving bans. A possible reduction in the intervention threshold is justified by road safety, but in reality it is an objective to raise more money through criminal fines. I ask the Minister whether the principle and the point of view that the judicial system must be independent and that the penalties must not be based on the state's need for money have not been considered by you in the government or by you in the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u29	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u30	Mr President! If I continue these answers in the order in which these questions have come. Mr Outi Mäkelä asked about these asylum complaints, on the other hand, that they would not be burdened and that they would not be removed from something else. We are currently considering that, once these issues have been centralised in that Helsinki Administrative Court, could these measures be dismantled elsewhere in the country. This is in the process, and it seems that it could be one effective solution for this, so that we can dismantle this line. Yes, this is being monitored all the time, and it has been invested, and there have been more resources, i.e. making hands. Of course, it takes time for these people to learn that work. But these have been addressed and monitored all the time. Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen asked about this online vote. That's what I'm gonna answer next. It is on the way, and I have been presented with it, and although it has identified certain risks and problems, I nevertheless have at least the understanding that there is a positive attitude within the government towards this online vote. So that is different from the mechanical vote that often gets a little confused, that is to say, it had bad experiences. However, this online vote is being carried forward, and it is going to be introduced at some point into the elections for an experiment. Now for this gray economy. The government has therefore approved a separate programme and has therefore continued the work that the previous government has begun. These appropriations for combating the shadow economy remain at the same level as this year. It must of course be acknowledged that this budget does not provide the courts with an additional budget of EUR 1.5 million. However, account must be taken of the fact that the financial situation of the courts will be good next year as a whole. This development of the shadow economy has been done, and the government is also taking this message from the Social Democrats seriously, as I have promised myself. I have clarified the criminalisation of underpaid employment, and this is now the view of the officials, that is what I am going to say next. Their view is that general criminalisation cannot be considered justified. The justification is that legislation has already focused attention on the problem of underpaid employment, such as the position of foreign workers. Criminal law already protects a weaker party today if it is, for example, a matter of error, incomprehension or thoughtlessness. Criminal law, on the other hand, should not be used to resolve civil-law contractual disputes. — This is, as is the short answer of the officials to the question raised by Mr Lindtman. The fight against the shadow economy will therefore continue and we will take it seriously. That is where the Minister, the Minister of Finance, who is also the former Minister of the Interior, whispered that there are resources specifically allocated to the police to combat the shadow economy, that is to say, the government takes this seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u31	Good, then we can continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u32	Madam Speaker! I'd like to ask you about these district court cases. When it is planned to reduce these, it is largely a question of human safety. When so many police officers have to be involved in the transportation of district courts, they will then be out of the normal service and normal activity with which to reduce crime and keep people in check that their affairs are safely under control. This also affects the way that when legal services are taken away from people beyond what they have been so far, it is a very bad thing for centralisation. I would like to ask the Minister: has there been an estimate of how much these centralisations will cost the state, given the movements of witnesses and other interested parties to that location, and how much more insecurity will it increase when the police are tied to that time of transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u33	Mr President! Mr Lindström, Minister of Justice Lindström, the point is that combating the shadow economy is important for creating a fair and fair competitive environment. It also creates greater economic efficiency. The grey economy suffers from public finances, workers and also fair businesses, those who operate according to the rules of the game. Sub-wage is currently one of the most important elements that bring about this unfairness. For twenty years I have been following the labour market close, working there, and yes, it is that, especially in a large construction site with a large number of foreign workers, this underpaid job crowds out Finnish companies and their employees from doing that work. There is also a need for a right of action to establish that health and safety at work, working conditions and remuneration are in order. So I ask you: are you bringing the trade unions' right of action to this whole thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u34	Mr President! I know that the abolition of district courts and sitting places is a serious problem for many localities and cannot be underestimated. But I think that this reform also offers an opportunity, namely the possibility of improving the service of customers, by means of digitalisation, to increase distance processing and distance hearing so that witnesses and defendants in small criminal cases can also be heard more through video communication. Now I would like to ask the Minister: how are we going to increase this distance hearing so that in the future we do not have to travel to district courts a little further away? The second question concerns this issue of summary cases. After all, Sweden made a decision to concentrate on enforcement, so that two judicial authorities, district courts and enforcement, do not have to deal with the enforcement, but deal with these uncontested solutions. What is the key reason why Finland did not go down this road?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u35	Madam President! In many cases, the government has justified cuts in securing the welfare state of the future. But at the same time as we look at those cuts, it is important to consider when those cuts may have a detrimental effect on the future of that same welfare state, for example, if we are talking about the economic inequality of people and how it affects people’s chances of securing their legal protection and getting help, or the role of different groups in society and how it may affect their legal security. This presentation by the Ministry of Justice states: "The diversity and pluralism of society, the deepening division of activities and the transfer of activities to information networks also create challenges for the legislative solutions considered to be good and appropriate." I would have asked the Minister in particular: what does this division mean, what does it refer to, what kind of challenges it poses from the point of view of the minister, and how is it provided for in the budget for the coming year?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u36	Mr President! The debate raised the issue of courts and their congestion. I would like to highlight one of the factors that burden them, namely custody disputes. I have wondered what could be done to reduce custody disputes, and I have then proposed a support person model for child protection, i.e. a person to act between a family member and an authority, as if to help prevent conflicts, so that we do not have to burden our district courts so much with custody disputes. This could also have an impact on the cost of child welfare of EUR 1300 million. Could the Minister be prepared to consider such a model of support for custody disputes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u37	Mr President! Really, a year ago, when we proposed such things over 20 points in the programme to combat the black economy, I realized that the minister, at least in his heart and speech, was in agreement with our goals. And now it is a question of how to make practical progress in these areas. Concrete issues: Could it not be thought that this tax number will be extended beyond the construction sector? It is very important. It is possible to criminalise underpaid employment. The right of action is being exercised in order to ensure that these posted workers are also better protected. We have a model for that too. There is still a need to develop the Act on Customer Liability to ensure that, in the subcontracting chain, everyone complies with tax obligations, wage obligations. This is where the Act on Procurement has entered the Parliament. I was a little disappointed that only in the construction sector, which was carried out last season, is the need to comply with the rules of the game if you want to get to the procurement. Here, too, this should be extended to sectors other than construction. Here are a few examples where you could take a work programme like this to combat the informal economy, and now I would like to ask if we could work together well here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u38	Mr President! The Government and Minister Lindström deserve to be commended for agreeing, in the context of the budget debate, to clarify and dismantle the obstacles to employment related to enforcement. This is because many long-term unemployment, for example, is also due to a serious problem of over-indebtedness, and unfortunately the trend is deteriorating. Last year, one in ten Finns was a customer of the enforcement and a new dark record was made on the payment default labels. I would now like to ask the Minister for further information on the progress of this package agreed in the budget debate and on the scope of this package. Will there be improvements in the labour market status of persons in enforcement or preventive measures to prevent over-indebtedness, such as the long-awaited positive register of credit information or the possibility of transmitting this information?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u39	Let us take one more speech before the Minister replies again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u40	Madam President! Mr Wallinheim asked a very important question. The Guarantee Foundation, which provides assistance in debt arrangements for over-debted persons, has said that most of the quick-leases are now taken into ordinary everyday expenses, such as eating, medical expenses and rents. As such, a good reform was made during the last period in the fact that these short-term payments of less than EUR 2000 were put under control, but what has happened since then is that there have been many such companies that lend more than EUR 2000, which can be termed robbery companies, which ride around the debt cycle of such poor, indebted people, and hauling wild interest rates, which then leads to a worsening spiral of debt. I would have asked the Minister of Justice whether you have seen this trend in the Ministry of Justice and whether you intend to put this new fast-jacking economy under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u41	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u42	Mr President! If you were to start with these district court cases, that is to say, the new entity and the arguments on which they have then been put to an end. These arguments are as follows: there are proposed closures of establishments which are reasonably distanced from the rest of the district court or where there are minor uses or safety deficiencies and where the level of technical equipment required would require major investment in relation to the need for use. There are big line arguments here for these offices to be closed down. This reform of the district court network and legal certainty, and in general this use of technology, which came up with questions: Of course, these proposed changes mean that in some cases the distance from the court will increase. Electronic services have increased and will increase even further with this data bank, Aipa. By increasing the use of videoconferencing, for example, the defendant in criminal proceedings can participate in the hearing via video, and the location of prisons, for example, would no longer have the same meaning. The customer service and video consultation of the District Court could be organised at a service point connected with the office of another authority, for example. This will also save both the parties concerned and the State the travel costs of these travellers. This network of offices of the State Legal Aid Office is geographically comprehensive and has therefore been subject to changes — that representative, Merelle, in response. Then these payment failures and the incentive trap effect. It is precisely now that we are looking at the model that could address this: whether it is now the lifting of the protective component — which is of course challenging from a certain point of view, i.e. within the OM's budget, because there are consequences for enforcement — or if there is another example that has been such an example that now, in a way, this number of months of discharge leave has been four months, could it be increased to six months for example? Such models have been rounded up, but the government decided in the budget debate that this will be the solution, this will be addressed. We see this as a serious incentive trap that people are afraid to accept work, and that is why we are looking for a solution to this. This problem has also been identified as something that needs to be addressed. To this offer of Social Democrats for a work programme. All the ideas you have are taken seriously. I only remember from the last parliamentary term when I myself spoke very much in favour of fighting the shadow economy and put forward concrete options for its development, so unfortunately those options that we put forward did not move forward at that time. I am referring, for example, to the right of the foreign inspector to fine, which would have been good. But we are now in the government, you are in the opposition. It is good that we are working together on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u43	Congressman Lindtman will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u44	Mr President! Let's take a look at the results. The fact that we were taking action here, for example, in the construction industry, certainly had results. Before the construction industry started to rise, tax revenue increased despite this, and I remember these actions, the very groundbreaking measures taken under the leadership of Mr Ihalainen in the fight against the black economy — big leaps were taken forward, they received praise from the opposition as a whole. But now that worry is here that we have made presentations, most of them do not need money, but the clock is ticking and the Search List is not showing. The mid-term review is approaching, and if year after year we come here for a budget debate and ask where are the proposals you have promised to bring in the government, if not, then the risk is that time will run out and billions of tax losses will only continue, honest businesses will suffer and ordinary taxpayers will pay for their own purses. When will the decisions come?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u45	Minister Lindström, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u46	Mr President! I tried to be constructive, as Mr Ihalainen did in his own speech, rather than pushy. I said that your presentation will be taken seriously, but this is not a quick run, as you well know. This will take time when we look through these: what is realistic, what can be taken forward, and what will happen to all the government parties? So it's just the three of us who decide what goes on. So once again: we take these proposals seriously, because we all share a common objective: to control the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u47	Mr President! The Social Democrats will give you full support, Minister, that you will get these proposals, the good proposals, through the government. And if it looks like they're gonna get stuck in there, then welcome here, we'll give you all the support. I believe that the Minister is on a good point here, and now we just need to be firm. And now would it be appropriate to have such a mid-term review of this grey economy, too, because if these slip over to the other side of the regime, I fear that tax losses will never be recovered again? Minister, the SDP fully supports you in this work. I hope we finally get some results.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u48	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u49	Mr President! Let us say, for the sake of certainty, that we in the government have a very common will to take forward the fight against the shadow economy, against financial crime. Last spring, in the Committee on Economic Policy, we decided that the specific programme for the shadow economy, which has been jointly mobilised during the last period, should be continued and its financial resources taken care of. In addition to this, these new means, which have emerged here, will certainly be looked at positively. This is from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance alone. We have set high targets as to how much more tax revenue will be generated by curbing the shadow economy in the state treasury, and that is why this is also a very sensible economic activity. And I would also like to say that, when we talked about this enforcement and its effects on the incentive for work, the position of these people, especially the position of the poorest people, we had a very common will already in the budget debate that we would find a solution. We were prepared to do so already in the debate, but there were still details that needed to be clarified, as Mr Lindström said well, and we will look for a solution to them by the time of the supplementary budget proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u50	Mr President! These speed levers have already come up, and it is quite true that there are still problems, and I hope that this aspect will be addressed and, overall, this criminal activity on the Internet. We even have such offers to the Members of Parliament that indicate that we have won something. Then we'll have to give you the account details and the contact details and the like. Everyone knows what it's about then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u51	Mr President! On the subject of the fight against the shadow economy: that is the case with many ministries, but when we are in the debate on budget referrals, the crucial question is whether the total budget for combating the black economy will increase or decrease. The Ministry of the Interior’s press release stated that an additional contribution of 5 million will be made, but when you read the rest of the budget, it may be interpreted that at the same time 9,6 million will be cut. When the fact is that in 2014 only tax revenue and the recovery of the proceeds of crime amounted to 47.7 million, and then the losses are really huge in the shadow economy, I ask the Minister for Finance, who is responsible for the entire budget: will the budget for the fight against the shadow economy increase or decrease in the 2017 budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u52	Mr President! One sector that is also affected by this fight against the shadow economy is transport. Yesterday we heard great news: the traffic cycle is moving forward and going in a reliable way and is being invested in it. The big thing is this digitalization. Freight transport and passenger transport can be combined, and one essential element here is the electronic transport document. It also involves this fight against the shadow economy, because it always leaves a fingerprint in the registers and is able to monitor the whole. As what kind of tool does the minister see this electronic transport document? Secondly, how can administrative fees be increased in the case of fines, i.e. how can this sanctions be imposed on foreign lorries before leaving the country? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u53	Madam President! Thank you for developing the prison network, including the launch of the new construction of Hämeenlinna women's prison, and also for the fact that prison sentences have tightened up in sexual crimes, among other things. Also, the criminalisation of the design of serious crimes by the so-called Lex Hakola has produced good results. Yesterday we received information that the school killing has been prevented again, and many during this legislation. The events at the Helsinki railway station have also raised the debate, and I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: Are the means to prevent this type of incident at the moment in order? In other words, are the means — legislation and police resources — in such a condition that they can be better addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u54	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to these mandates and equality and I hope, referring to my previous speech, that we will consider whether ETNO will also be able to obtain more resources. However, I would like to draw attention to this situation of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. As a former Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, I can tell you that I believe that there are no overlaps and nothing prevents them from cooperating. This is not about women, but it is generally about minorities that people think that minorities want to be involved in making decisions about them, and it seems really strange that if women oppose and feel that this is a very important special representative, then it will not be taken into account. This is not just a question of human resources, it is a very political issue. And if you think that at the moment political leadership is very male-dominated, it seems rather difficult in this situation to underestimate the importance of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, which is, however, a world-famous human rights institution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u55	Mr President! For the first time in the budget there is an appropriation for the regional elections — or for the time being for preparation. This is historic. It is very important to inform citizens about regional elections in due course, and the Ministry of Justice must deal with this matter carefully. The new provincial government needs a strong democracy, and if people do not see this as their own business, then it can happen that they do not vote and legitimacy is weak in this matter. The regional elections and presidential elections already set out in the budget will take place at the same time, so there will be considerable savings, even if more is to be invested in information in due course. Similarly, serious consideration should be given to the holding of parliamentary elections and EU elections at the same time as next time they happen to be close together. As a lawyer, I am aware of the problems that arise in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u56	Madam President! As far as that grey economy is concerned, I would have liked to say that the results depend on the number of workers working on the grey economy, it is quite directly proportional to this. The fight against the shadow economy has been particularly effective there in the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is a matter of the taxable person's accounting offences where the effectiveness of financial investigations depends essentially on how the prosecutor can handle cases. And, as the former Minister of Justice has said here, the prosecutors are already in the heat of their current workload and there are not too many resources. In other words, in these cases run by financial prosecutors, the benefit to the State is approximately EUR 100 million per year, i.e. the output-input ratio is very significant. That is why I would like to see this proportion of money received by prosecutors examined in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u57	One speech before the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u58	Värderade fru talman! Som en del av tingsrättsreformen ska hanteringen av så kallade summiska tvistemål centraliseras till vivi hovrättskretsar, något som ledamot Salmoni också var inne på. För Ålands del innebär det att de summiska tvistemålen är viktiga för tingsrättens volym på Åland. Också för övriga Svenskspråkiga i landet är det viktigt att summiska tvistemål i framtiden handläggs också på svenska, dels för rättsäkerhetens skull, dels för att inte översättningskostnader ska uppstå och skapa ett dyrare och sämre system än det nuvarande. Det är därför viktigt att handläggningen av summäriska tvistemål fortsättingsvis kan garanteras också i practiceken på två språk, och att det det i Ålands fall blir så att de summiska tvistemålen blir kvar i Ålands tingsrätt. Jag vill därför fråga justitieminister Lindström om han kan säga hur beredningen av detta framskrider och hur regeringen tänker trygga en rättssäker organisation av summiska tvistemål i framtiden, också på svenska.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u59	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u60	President! Let us start with this question of summary cases, namely that this working group set up by the Ministry of Justice is currently preparing a proposal to concentrate the processing of summary cases on a limited number of these district courts, and this is, of course, a question of efficiency. Of course, efficiency must not result in these linguistic rights no longer being realised in summarily matters, meaning that this means that Mr Löfström and many others are concerned about this language issue, that everything that is done in all these reforms must ensure that these linguistic rights are realised and that the service is also provided in the Swedish language and in the Finnish language, both equally. The task of the working group will then also be to assess the possibilities of developing evidenced service. This is a key objective since the service of applications for challenge represents a significant part of the cost of handling debt cases. The deadline for the working group expires on 31 January 2017 . Then Mr Ojala-Niemela and many others continued the debate on the grey economy in relation to the prosecution institution: The budget situation of the prosecutor's office will be clearly degressive but reasonable during the spending limits period. After a difficult year, the number of prosecutors can be slightly increased. Of course, the ongoing information system reforms pose a cost risk, which has been made available through the accumulation of the appropriations to be transferred. Then, on the question of Mr Refusal, could this so-called administrative charge, the road traffic error charge, be introduced: The Ministry of Transport and Communications is undergoing an overall reform of the Road Traffic Act, which you are probably aware of. The consequences of traffic offences will also be examined, and the Ministry of Justice will be involved in this work. One alternative to the current infringement fine is to move on to the administrative charge. These options will be assessed and preparatory work will be carried out jointly under the direction of the LVM. At the end of the day, I'd like to say: Thank you for the proper debate. I am sorry that I really do not have time to answer every single question, because these cannot be answered in just a second. Then put a written question if the answers do not satisfy you. But I have tried to answer at least these bigger things and those that have been clearly answerable here quickly. Many are challenging enough to take more than five minutes. But thank you for a proper debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u61	Let's move on to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u62	Mr President! The environment for education, research and culture is changing, but the foundation remains the same. High-quality and free education, a high level of education and functional early childhood education services are the cornerstone of the Finnish welfare society. All Finns must be guaranteed equal opportunities for quality education, even in a situation where the indebtedness of public finances places very strict conditions on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The government is reforming the education system at all levels from early childhood education to higher education. Cross-cutting themes in the reform of education include strengthening pedagogics, quality teacher training, and developing learning environments and digitalization. Education and early childhood education represent the most significant share of public education resources. The budget debate brought good news for families with children when the planned increases in early childhood education fees were cancelled and, in accordance with the Government’s decision, the customer fees for early childhood education were reduced by approximately EUR 10 million. Reducing early childhood education fees and cancelling increases will promote employment and equality and facilitate the economic situation of families with children. The decision will make it easier for all paid families with children, especially low-income single-parent families, whose payments will be reduced or even eliminated altogether. With the decision, more and more children will have access to early childhood education. We need to pay more attention to how we can increase the participation rate in early childhood education, because here we are different from the other Nordic countries. The child benefits from early childhood education in many ways. Studies show that participation in early childhood education prevents exclusion, equalises differences in home background and supports children’s later learning and learning. Next year is also important from the point of view of early childhood education because early childhood education is just about to get its own basics of early childhood education, which are similar to the curricula we already have at other levels of education. Mr President! The Government is investing in reforming basic education so that we will have the best comprehensive school in the world in the future. A total of EUR 90 million will be allocated to the reform in order to implement new curricula and, in particular, to invest in teacher training. The Government's efforts will accelerate the introduction of new pedagogy and new learning environments. Each teacher is guaranteed access to further training according to his/her own baseline. Each of the 2,500 comprehensive schools in Finland allows a tutor teacher to support teachers in the introduction of new technologies and new pedagogy, for example. High-end experiments will be launched in schools and the latest research data will be linked to them. The vision work on the future comprehensive school will also start this autumn, and the new vision will be presented during the centenary year of Finland’s independence in August 2017. In 2017, a total of EUR 22 million will be allocated to digital knowledge and language experiments and the promotion of accessibility of basic art education. Due to the situation of asylum seekers, appropriations for preparatory education for basic education and basic education for adults will be increased to match the increased need for education. The Government has prepared for an increase in the number of immigrants and has also responded to the situation of asylum seekers by increasing the number of places for starting vocational education and training for immigrants, reforming basic education for adults, creating a model of university of responsibility together with higher education institutions and through numerous other measures. The Government has set aside EUR 15.2 million next year to strengthen educational equality and improve the quality of special education. In addition, separate appropriations are to be allocated to measures to develop learning methods and environments in basic education. In addition, the development of learning and pedagogy will be supported, strengthening the local school principle with the aim of improving learning outcomes and reducing school drop-out. The accessibility of basic art education will also be improved through a key project. Mr President! The Government has launched a reform of secondary vocational education as one of its leading projects. The reform will reform the operating legislation of vocational education and training, the structure of qualifications, the financial system and the regulatory and steering system. The aim is to create a future vocational education and training that quickly meets the changing skills requirements of working life and serves students of different ages and backgrounds. Lifelong learning grows stronger and becomes a permanent way of working. Workplace learning will be significantly increased. A new model of education and training contracts will be introduced, in particular with a view to increasing learning in the workplace for young people. The attractiveness of apprenticeship training will be strengthened by reducing it to the employer ( President MariaLohela : Minister,now a long way to go. 5 minutes is the length of the speech. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u65	Like this. Then we'll go to the debat, and it'll be started by Mr. Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u66	Madam Speaker! Although this environment remains challenging, so much justice has been achieved in this budget, and we must be satisfied with this: reducing early childhood education fees for low-income people, moving students to general housing support — that is, support for those most in need of it in the future — through the employment package, youth work, workshop activities have been funded so that there will not be more than 20 million cuts in teachers' continuing education for next year, 18 million to boost digital learning environments, 7 million to increase physical activity, 5 million to language experiments, 30 million to improve the year-round learning environment of higher education institutions. And I am not saying that only by shoveling the euro will there be results, but there is a change in the way in which all these efforts are made, and that is what we are trying to achieve in a fair way. In other words, we are on a slightly better path, although there are still many challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u67	Mr President! There are very difficult times, but still value choices have been made, and they are many of which we can also be proud of, as the previous speech raised many points. I'm gonna raise a few from the point of view of our elementary school. Comprehensive school is on the way to a new decade, and in that respect there are very good measures, perhaps the most important of which is the skills of our teachers. Teachers' skills are, you can say, clearly invested in the way we provide in-service training, as well as in the way in which teacher training should be developed. From the period after comprehensive school, I increase the upper secondary school and the transition from upper secondary school to higher education. By the way, there's a lot of work to be done on that side. It will take far too long for our young people to get to higher education. Moreover, far too many are too long in our higher education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u68	Mr President! The savings made in the quality, equality and group sizes of basic education for this year also show in a harsh way in the everyday lives of pupils and teachers: one in two municipalities has cut the hourly framework for basic education, which in another municipality has reduced the number of hours allocated, more than half of the municipalities have increased the number of group sizes. Now you are going to continue this line by making further cuts. Thus, teaching groups will grow further and students will not receive individual support. Despite the fact that Finnish learning outcomes have now been falling for 10 years and Finland's investments in basic education are below the OECD average, you still make these cuts. The gap in learning outcomes between the best and the least successful pupils has increased and an increasing number of young people are not achieving the minimum objectives of basic education. How, Minister, will this promise of training be implemented under these conditions? How can you improve the situation of students in larger groups of pupils? It's kind of hard to change the way things work when the group size grows.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u69	Madam President! The Minister himself has said on several occasions that these painful cuts will have to be made in order to secure our welfare society in the future. That is certainly partly true, and we all realistically realise that choices must be made and that safeguarding is important. But at the same time it is important to consider when these cuts will weaken the very existence of that welfare society at present and also in the future, and the cuts to education are a major example of this. In yesterday's budgetary debate, the Minister of Finance raised the issue of boys and young men and shared concerns about the future of these boys and men, probably on the basis of that OECD report. At the same time, when we look at cuts in education — 190 million for vocational training alone, watering down the youth guarantee or weakening the youth work in search — how can we then think that we are really all concerned about these young boys and men, for example? It creates a huge distrust and conflict, which I'm sure you will.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u70	Mr President! Minister Grahn-Laasonen talked a lot about the small increases in appropriations that are being made, but very little about the large cuts in appropriations that the government is going to make next year, of which the biggest cut will be on vocational training. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, structural reform means, in my opinion, doing things differently — making things smarter, reforming policies and making savings. Why, then, is this reform of vocational education and training being carried out in this marching order which the government is now proposing, which first takes away the money, cuts the funding and only then a year later comes this legislative reform that will enable the organisers of education to reform their policies? There are already messages from education providers that they will not have the opportunity to make these savings except by cutting the unit price, which means less local education, fewer staff, and, for example, the possibility for pupils to gain access to working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u71	Mr President! The cuts are extensive, and when major cuts are made, the government is also required to provide substantive guidance and visions of direction and goals. Among other things, the government has called for higher education institutions to undertake structural reforms. My question is: what is the government doing to bring about structural reforms, which concern the institution of higher education? The Minister mentioned the early childhood education plan — it is a really good and absolutely necessary tool and instrument. But at the same time the government in this budget book is talking about planning club activities in connection with the preschool. How, Minister, will you ensure that this club activity is also high-quality early childhood education throughout Finland? In my opinion, this is a matter of fate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u72	Madam President! This point in the administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture is, in the sense that it is twofold that, as Mrs Andersson rightly pointed out here, the legislative reforms in the fields of early childhood education, youth law and vocational training are good, but when they are taken away from the funding base, they are faced with situations such as the enlargement of group sizes in early childhood education and basic education, and, as Mr Andersson rightly pointed out, vocational education and training is in a strange situation: firstly, the money is being taken away and then this legislative reform is being carried out. For example, would it not be possible to reconsider vocational training in order not to have to take strange measures in training twice? In addition, I would have asked that when students are being transferred to the general housing allowance, what will happen to students with families? Concerns have been expressed about the fact that their life situation will actually deteriorate: however, if they increase student aid at the same time, their economy will deteriorate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u73	Mr President! There will be many improvements in early childhood education, apprenticeships and the promotion of physical activity, thanks to the Minister and the Government. As far as lending compensation is concerned, the Nordic level is being reached, which is a great thing. The audiovisual sector, that is to say the film industry, will receive incentive money, and it will also bring money in the future. But my real question to the Minister is about the regional language experiment, which is given 5 million: Constitutional amendments are being made. This is indicated in the Government Programme that the language experiment will come. Can we stick to the schedule?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u74	One last speech before the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u75	Mr President! The words and actions of the Minister of Education and the representatives of the government parties do not correspond to reality. There is a study and study by the OAJ, which tells us that in more than half of the municipalities the group sizes of basic education have been increased and even the upper secondary schools have increased by over 40 per cent. In other words, the Government's decision to cut central government shares, the abolition of equality funds and group size grants in practice. I say now, Minister of Education, that these cuts will go down in the learning results. Here, listen, a lot of digital leap will help if other learning conditions are weakened in an absolutely essential way, what the growth of group sizes, for example, means in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u76	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u77	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson, as regards the situation in which we are now, we can also look back at the periods of previous education ministers, which were then done or, above all, not done. There have been concerns about resources in this debate. The tight financial situation between municipalities and the state is not news in this Chamber. We are all living in that reality, and that is why we need to be able, among other things, to bring Finland's economy back into a boom, so that we can also make additions to education and research, among other things. But a lot of good is happening on the content side at the moment, and I have already heard comments and ideas for development on these points. Comprehensive school develops, new curricula and its support through the EUR 90 million investment of the top project, tutor-teacher models, teacher training development. In vocational education and training, we are undertaking a major legislative reform that will renew the whole operation from 2018. It is true that it is challenging that savings should be made for next year, but we are trying to get a new law for consultation here already in October, so that the providers of education have time to prepare and prepare. I would also like to correct the idea that arose here in connection with the Youth Guarantee. Looking for youth work will not be weakened, but its resources will also be secured at this year's level in next year's budget, which I am very pleased about. Similarly, the government invests in the competence programme for young adults, i.e. that we are trying to train those young adults who, for one reason or another, have missed a secondary degree or have not started. The aim is to create support for young adults at risk of exclusion and by various means to improve the youth guarantee of the last term of government in order to genuinely reduce the number of young people who are not in education and work. The training guarantee will be adhered to. On the cultural side, good news emerged, among other things, by raising the quote fee to the Nordic level. I would also like to thank Parliament for its good cooperation on this. The government made an important decision on cultural policy by raising the quotes of authors to the level they belong to, i.e. the joint Nordic level, in our centenary year of next year's budget. Similarly, the Government will introduce an av-incentive, i.e. a production incentive for the audiovisual sector, which aims to encourage our film industry to have better opportunities, and Finland will also be able to obtain foreign productions and thus know-how and employment from the film industry to Finland. What is the government doing to bring about structural reforms in higher education? In accordance with the Government Programme, we require higher education institutions to build up their skills and examine overlapping educational responsibilities, profiled, intensified cooperation, clearer division of labour. Cooperation between higher education institutions and cooperation with research institutes will be intensified and cooperation with industry will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u78	Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u79	President! The Minister of Education and Culture is doing a hard and valuable job, but I do not like one aspect. You have started a new culture of action: every two times you criticise your predecessors without much justification and argument. In this context, I will briefly say a few important things on my own, in line with the Government Programme. Young adults' skills program, great success. It is precisely the young people who have now received attention, who are not in employment and who lack a degree. As part of the social guarantee, there was provision for each young person to have a place of education after comprehensive school. In the best year, I was increasing the amount of gender and group funding for education by EUR 83 million. Now you are talking about EUR 15 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u80	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u81	Mr President! This government has not cut the basic funding for basic education. You cut it. Mr President! In this Chamber, every parliamentary party has been deciding on cuts in vocational education and training, and this must also be borne in mind in this debate when it comes to the fact that the previous government, in the structural policy programme, has already prepared 260 million secondary savings, which have then been passed on from the last week of Parliament to this government. What we have done is that we have now built up a structural reform in which there is practically every aspect of vocational training. Structural reform is being carried out in order to ensure that the quality of education is guaranteed and the opportunities for students, the opportunities for young people, despite the fact that the funds are already falling, and this deterioration is indeed the result of these solutions made during the previous government term. I would like to remind you again, Mr Rinne,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u82	Madam President! You, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, started by reforming education and strengthening pedagogy. I would ask you — and I hope that I will receive a direct answer: How will pedagogy be strengthened by the fact that EUR 190 million will be cut from the professional side so that local education will be reduced so that distance learning will increase? How does this strengthen pedagogy? You mentioned that you want to invest in completing secondary education. What is your assessment of the fact that, on the professional side, the drop-out rates are already high, when you cut off vocational education, local education, whether this will increase the drop-out rate, whether this will further increase exclusion and what will be the impact of this on professional skills?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u83	Mr President! Minister, before the parliamentary elections, all of us party chairmen made a promise of education, stating that there have now been so many cuts in education that they have gone beyond the limit of pain and that there will be no cuts in education in the future. You are now making cuts to this total of EUR 3000 million, EUR 3 billion, during this parliamentary term. You are putting at risk, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, the future of the nation and the future of children and young people through these cuts. You have made a world record in betraying this government's educational promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u86	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u87	Mr President! This is something that must be said on Wednesday 3 June 2015 following this election, in which Mr Antti Rinte's reply has just been asked what the SDP would save, or what your savings options are. There is a list of these sites, and one of these sites there would have been this second-degree savings solution that would have fallen during the last parliamentary term, which would have been taken care of without leaving education places or the quality of education to be weakened, EUR 270 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u88	Mr President! It is now important to remember that the restructuring of the last parliamentary term took place in such a way that restructuring takes place first and then becomes savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u89	Mr President! There are, of course, a few three lines for the Social Democrats: the line you wrote in the framework at the time was this EUR 270 million cut. The one that was in your election programme is the second stage, it was the same size, and you were still talking about it in Parliament. But now you are of the opinion that there may not be any surgery at all. You know that when you are a fine man and very intelligent, there is no such thing as an operation that has somehow been made from certain structures and would not affect the number of staff or the number of students, but would simply lose 270 million, in accordance with your electoral program, virtual money, but would have no effect on anything. You are such a smart man that you of course know that this is not the case. You would have liked to have cut out more of vocational education than we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u92	Mr President! I repeat once again that during the last parliamentary term, the option of the SDP, which was built, was brought here to Parliament and fell into the special opposition of the Centre Party, was a restructuring which would have changed the structures in a way that would have made savings. That is an option that we still have in our election programme, and I hope you will get to know this, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u93	Mr President! Indeed, we are now implementing a historic reform of vocational education and training, and it also has strong support for the whole field of education. Now we have had the problem of apprenticeships, adult education and youth education in vocational education and training receiving funding from different pipelines, and it has obviously created these structures, of which the Social Democrats would have made these savings in the previous period. Such structures need to be rationalised. However, there are certain challenges and certain entities which I would like to focus on in this debate. One is cooperation between truly liberal education and youth education, vocational education and training. How will that be taken into account in this reform? I would also like to highlight the role of these expensive trainings. This is a common challenge to manage this new training model and reform in such a way that there is also the possibility of continuing in different fields of education and of continuing to improve the quality of education. So I'd like to ask the minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u94	Mr President! In my opinion, even then, it became clear in the debate in 2015 that such a large amount of money will not be cut from the second level of vocational education and training without the quality of education being impaired. On this point, I agree with those who believe that restructuring cannot make up to 190 million people rationally so that it does not undermine the level of education. But what the government is doing now is that, even though these restructurings have been postponed until 2019, you stubbornly insist that the money is taken away first and only then operational development is made. All the experts in the business think this is wrong. It confuses the development of vocational education and training. First of all, we have to drive down activities and quality, perhaps offices, perhaps numbers of students, and then the two-year reform, which perhaps could make some sense of secondary education, so that money is saved and genuinely saved, comes after-school and does not help this. This is a clear mistake from you,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u95	President! Of course, these cuts in education are painful and our learning outcomes have deteriorated in recent years, but in the middle of everything we must remember that the budget for OKM is still close to 6.8 billion. In this context, the reform of vocational education and training is indeed what the organisers in the field of education want. And I believe that we should not follow the reform of universities of applied sciences in a similar way, that there should be only one organisational model, that is, a limited liability company model, but that there must also be other forms of organisation. I myself hope, when I finally got the floor, that the Minister will answer: how is this voluntary matter recorded in the Government Programme for another Finnish language?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u96	Mr President! This debate once again shows this contradiction, which is easily what we are going to get into in this Chamber. In fact, I understand that this reform of vocational education and training has been very well received in this area and has been prepared in very good agreement with the players in the sector. A great deal of effort and work has been done to try to make these savings as appropriate to the organiser as possible. Of course, they are decisions that would rather not be taken, but when they have to be made, then we will try to make them as appropriate as possible. It would therefore be desirable for us to be able to discuss these positive contributions made by the government, which have already been mentioned in the previous speeches. And if I have the floor again, I would also like to spend some time on, for example, good investments in youth work and culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u97	One last speech before the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u98	Madam President! The education is under way and huge upheavals are planned, and I am really concerned about the future of Finnish children and young people. Education is the cornerstone of the welfare society, and I think that cuts of this magnitude are totally unacceptable. But it's not all about euros and money. Minister, in the first part of your speech you said that equal opportunities must be guaranteed for all to study. The European Parliament, the UN network and many legal organisations, both domestic and international, have wondered about the situation in Finland. After all, Finland is known as a country of equality. Finland is known as an example country in terms of education and education, and yet, in this respect, many articles of the Constitution are violated in Finland, and these violations are particularly found in women-dominated areas. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister intends to contribute in the future so that equal study opportunities can be realised in Finland through ethical or religious convictions, a different background.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u99	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u100	Mr President! Thank you for the many good speeches. I will return to that reform of vocational education and training, because it is clearly a big deal also for next year. I quite agree that this scheduling of savings is a challenge, namely that savings will come into effect next year, but because of the major legislative reform it will only be possible to implement the reform from the beginning of 2018. However, an approach has been sought to ensure that training providers can already react in accordance with its reform policies, inter alia in such a way that next year's savers have a great deal of freedom of movement, freedom of action to implement those savings already preparing their own organisation at that new time, at the time of the reform, from the beginning of 2018. Reform has also been prepared in good cooperation with the field of vocational education and training, and I dare say that its content has strong support for the field of vocational education. There is a need for reform of vocational education and training, and these guidelines, which are now being taken forward, have been widely signed there. Of course, it cannot always be that everyone agrees with all the details, but there has been a search for a package that will lead to further vocational training, even though the economic situation is tight, and we will be able to respond to these rapidly changing skills needs even more flexibly in the future. One good example is the fact that, over the years, when we have experienced a growth in the system of qualifications, i.e. in vocational education and training every time we have a new need for skills, a new degree has been built around it, and at the moment there are 350 degrees between which students should be able to choose their own field and option, and they have become too narrow in view of the skills needs of the future, so this degree reform, which is part of this vocational education reform, halves the number of qualifications and becomes more extensive and then creates specialisation pathways. Among other things, this has been considered a very good part and reform. Another major entity is the very significant increase in workplace learning, which means that the model of education and training agreements aims to make it possible to influence the suspensions. We have a lot of students who, after comprehensive school, would like to learn more by doing or less to sit on a desk and get more practical experience, to see its working life, to get real experiences, to inspire, to get excited, to be motivated by seeing your own work. That is why there are many good examples of how learning motivation can be increased in the workplace when it is transferred to the workplace. The central idea of the education contract is that it is, however, responsible for learning and the quality of it at the school, and this also challenges teaching, of course, but there is a great opportunity. There was an issue of equality in the education system. It has been one of the fundamental cliffs of our Finnish education system that we are going to assume here that, regardless of the background, equal opportunities are guaranteed for all in quality education and free education, and that is something that is being firmly adhered to. We face challenges on the part of primary school, for example, in learning outcomes and then in this school segregation, which is due not only to the separation of residential areas but also to the fact that municipalities have different economic situations. This is something that we can respond to, among other things, by means of special grants for equal opportunities for schools in the weaker regions. It has been found to be a good habit; we will continue to do the good work of the previous government. So is this development of pedagogy and reform of comprehensive school, capacity building of teachers, building diverse learning environments and so on, and that is what this new comprehensive school programme really responds to. This new comprehensive school programme has then been built together with professionals in education. There has been such a strong management team, and it involves the Association of Local and Regional Authorities through, Teachers' Trade Union OAJ and researchers, university teacher trainers and such versatile experts in education, and I am very excited about it and I believe that it can have far-reaching effects when it is done hand-in-hand in schools with the introduction of curricula that started just this autumn. Perhaps these are the basic lines. Of course, on the other side of culture, I mentioned the av-incentives, the quotes, the beginning of the state aid reform, the exercise. The mobile school, its nationalisation, brings exercise to the school days of children and young people, has made new recommendations for early childhood education and the mobility of children and so on. There the focus has clearly been on children and young people. The language experiment came up with questions here. The timetable for preparing its legislation is that during this autumn all the necessary clarifications and preparation will be completed as to the conditions under which we can promote this experiment. Thank you for all the contributions and I hope that this good dialogue with Parliament will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u101	The debatable continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u102	Madam President! I would really like to thank the Minister for Education for this support for audiovisual production. It is an excellent thing for Finland's creative sector and, therefore, for Finland as a whole, because this support at its best makes it possible to have a major economic and regional impact. Here too, I would like to thank Mr Rehn, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, for his excellent work. The Mobility School project is an excellent example of how much money is spent. Almost 70% of schools are already involved, and last year we have achieved excellent results, i.e. twice as many schools are now involved. However, I would have asked about this accessibility money for basic art education: what kind of concrete measures are to be taken? My second question concerns the training of wood construction. In what way will it be increased? That's an excellent way to tie up carbon, and OKM is right here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u103	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the whole, alongside many good specific questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u106	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for clearly going through the new appointment of these payments. In other words, when we used to talk about "day care fees", it gave the wrong impression of what is at stake; this "early education fees" is the right word to indicate what is at stake. At the same time, I would like to thank the government for preventing these increases in payments, because it is a good family policy, it is a proper employment policy, and if we look at all the obstacles that may ultimately lead to the situation that you do not want to go to work, then the responsible government cannot take such decisions. But I'll ask the minister a few questions about this future. If our employment rate rises and unemployment falls, is it possible that we could reduce these early childhood education fees? That way we would catch up with the difference we have with other civilized countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u107	Mr President! Yes, we must begin by acknowledging that the government is very good at how things are marketed. It is a completely new sport in politics, and in that respect I must say that all the reform and development that you have spoken about beautifully here hides in its background the promise that there will be no further cuts in education and training, the promise that education will no longer be cut back on almost EUR 2.7 billion in savings. They were not withdrawn, although they were criticised by the opposition last season. But more than 3 billion more cuts will be made on it. So what kind of educational promise is this? Promised, but let's do it after all. And I find it quite shocking that you have made further cuts in education again. The main class of OKM will cut the kiky effects by 59 million, universities of applied sciences and universities by 21 million. Why are you keeping this from me? Why, Minister, did you not tell us what new savings this draft budget contains? In addition, central government transfers of basic services
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u108	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u109	Mr President! There were no new surgeries in addition to the ones decided upon. What you said about this kiky deal was not an operation. The benefits of the Kiki agreement for universities and universities of applied sciences were taken to the state because the state needs that money to pay the costs of the Kiki agreement. But that financial position at universities of applied sciences and universities remains exactly the same, and this is a fact. It's not an operation. I want to make this clear: It's not an operation. The financial position remains the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u110	Mr President! I think it is very important that we put this in the history archives now, when the Minister of Finance's mouth heard that this is not a cut. You have promised that the municipal economy will be cost-neutral. 168 million will be saved by the removal of the kiky effects from municipalities. 28 per cent of it is calculated as expenditure on early childhood education and basic education. The minister here claimed that basic education is not being cut. I think that is quite incredible because, in the spending limits debate, you cut the shares of the state, and sad, really sad, is because we should, however, be able to talk about the facts that relate to the budget, honestly and openly. 168 million plus 59 million out of OKM's section of the kiky-effects is, in my opinion, a pretty big training cut over the training cuts that have been made. In addition, 190 million in vocational education and training is not enough, but the draft budget includes 225 million cuts in vocational education and training. I also think that we should stick to these figures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u111	Minister Orphan, one more minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u112	Mr President! Local government finances must be seen as a whole, and I would like to point out that, among other things, local government organisations accepted the agreement we negotiated with them, which was linked to the Kiki Agreement and the municipal economy as a whole. The local government-state relationship is practically at the same level, i.e. relatively plus minus zero. And in a situation where the state is in debt of EUR 5.5 billion, this is a reasonable result. And if you think about the Kiki agreement and its impact on the local government economy, which will then be of great importance to the ability of municipalities to carry out tasks such as education, education and early childhood education, it will also support the local government economy. If employment improves as a result of increased competitiveness, it will support the local government economy. We're gonna have to separate this one from ours. But I continue to say that the fact that the benefits of the Kiki agreement were taken to the State because the state is actually paying the salaries of universities of applied sciences and universities was cost-neutral because of its financial position in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u113	Madam President! It is really good for education that the local government finances are now in better shape than in the last parliamentary term. In fact, we also have to save in this second-largest category, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and that is challenging but necessary. That is why it is important that, here in Parliament, too, we in the section and in the committee look more closely at the effectiveness of these decisions. Vocational training in particular is a challenge in this respect, and these reforms are very important. Here, too, this training should be very flexible. For example, with Minister Orpo there in Turku, Rauma, New Town, Vaasa very quickly now the technology industry is moving forward and it is difficult to get enough trained people there, engineers, also in the professional sector. Training should also be able to yield to this fact that it is involved in this good rise. As far as effectiveness is concerned, the money for physical activity, top sports, which was otherwise recovered by about half a million people,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u114	Mr President! Here we have been arguing about these cuts for quite a long time, but it would be important to expect decent proposals from the Social Democrats too, because there are two former ministers of education and culture here. In that sense, you understand that the economic situation is very serious. And this economic situation has become serious under previous governments. This kiky agreement should have been concluded a long time ago, two parliamentary terms ago. We wouldn't have such a difficult financial situation. But now we have something in our pants, and we should clean it out. In that sense, we must thank the Minister for having managed to create new operating models and changes to achieve better results during such a difficult economic situation. One of these is this increase in the number of young people in work and, for example, the reform of vocational education and training, which, above all, allows young people to receive part-time education, and which tries to catch up with these marginalised young people and give them such paths that they can find jobs. These are the things we should consider here, what new means would be made in this economic situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u116	Mr President! We can use today to discuss how much the parties think should be saved. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that 190 million are clearly over-spent when it comes to vocational training. But the main and most important question that has not yet been answered by the Minister is that, even if the government insists on this oversized savings target, why do you implement these savings in this order and in this way? This mode of operation does not have field support. The organisers of vocational education and training are always sending out messages that if these savings are made before this content reform comes into effect, it will not give the organisers of education any chance of making sensible savings, but they will be sought by reducing staff, reducing local education and increasing group sizes. It is not a development of education and it is not a reform of vocational education and training, and there is still no answer to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u117	Mr President! In my opinion, when it comes to vocational education and training, this reform of qualifications is indeed a good one. But in my opinion, the question that has been raised about how to guarantee that those students who need a lot of contact teaching will continue to receive it has not been answered — not two weeks ago or now. Since there have been various working groups that are considering this, how can it be guaranteed that local education will continue? Then, Mr President, I would like to have an answer at some point when it is planned that club activities will be possible in connection with preschool. How will it be ensured that there will be quality early childhood education even after this reform? Multiprofessional cooperation has been a strength. How, for example, will this be guaranteed in student care when regional reform and social welfare reform come into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u118	Mr President! In this resource debate, it is good to remember that Finland’s educational costs are at a very good level, if you look at international comparisons, even at a very good level in basic education. I must say that this class teacher system seems to be a very productive system. All in all, I think we should consider how to achieve the best possible result from these resources. Of course, the fifth of young men outside school and working life is worrying, but we need to consider how to use the stakes better. As a direct question to the Minister: is the University of Oulu's right to a degree in construction, that is, this idea that existing studies could be combined in order to obtain a new separate degree?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u119	Mr President! Mr Rinne did paint an unacceptable amount of threats in his previous speech. That's not the way the world looks in everyday life. Functional changes can be made without legislation, and it is a question of the way in which the management of our educational institutions builds and develops it. I believe that we have excellent professionals, teachers, school leaders. They will be able to do a lot without this future professional reform legislation. Take as an example the use of space. We went around our parliamentary group with the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and there were very specific examples of how we could improve the efficiency of the use of space without future legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u121	Mr President! There has been talk here today and also yesterday about the young adults' skills programme, the NAO. I myself have followed this very impressive programme that started last season, and it has produced excellent results across Finland. In other words, young people without vocational training have been trained in the profession and have been given a job or a place of further study. In September, the Ministry received an announcement that an increase of EUR 10 million is to be made to the NAO programme. I was very pleased about this fact sheet, but when you look into it in more detail, for example, in this budget book, it actually seems that 12 million will be taken out of the NAO programme and not 10 million will be added. That, in my opinion, was at least a little misleading about what came in September, and my question now is: why is this really impressive programme now being driven down by professionals as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u122	One last speech before Mr Grahn-Laaso.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u123	Madam President! Savonlinna takes away the teacher's education institution and, as a result, almost 900 student places. A recent survey of social services shows that daily hospital operations and emergency services are now under threat if they are implemented as such. At the same time, it would threaten all the university of applied sciences sites in the nursing sector in Savonlinna. For Savonlinna, the question is absolutely vital. When teacher training places leave, the primary objective of the city of Savonlinna is to receive compensation from university of applied sciences, and on the other hand, when the social welfare reform already threatens existing places and when the savings of nearly EUR 200 million in vocational training come to an end, I would like to ask the Minister for an assessment of the possibilities of increasing university of applied sciences in Savonlinna or even saving those existing places.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u124	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u125	Mr President! Thank you again for the debate. There was a reference to Sweden. In Sweden, measures were taken a long time ago to correct the budgetary situation in Sweden. Sweden has a higher employment rate and at present the economy is growing by more than 3% a year. In other words, it is clear that Finland should be able to take the necessary measures in this respect, and in every way it would also facilitate the resources and situation of education. In other words, all energy and energy must be put in place to bring the employment situation in Finland up and balance the public finances in order to increase the budget for education in the future. There were still plenty of speeches on vocational education and training. We will soon be able to talk more about it as the legislation moves forward. Questions were asked, among other things, about local education. The key to this reform of vocational education and training is competence-based thinking about focusing attention on achieving its defined competence. There will then be a wide variety of ways, i.e. individual paths will be built. Those who need more contact teaching will have to have it, and then for those who are able to work more independently, work more in the workplace and learn more, that is also possible. The recognition of previously acquired skills is also essential, as efficiency is enhanced. At the moment, we have real-life situations where we always start from the beginning, even if there is only a certain skill gap, and in the future, through recognition of the skills acquired earlier, we will be able to build individual training paths and thereby also increase and save those resources, especially for adults, of course, when they already have that knowledge of working life and previous studies. The purpose of Savonlinna is to discuss this situation with universities of applied sciences in a round of negotiations. The government has paid attention to this. Basic art education came up, and I am very happy about it. It is one of the government's top projects, with the aim of strengthening basic art education. It has a great deal of enthusiasm in the air, especially in the opportunities where basic art education is introduced, culture for the afternoons of schools, which are such a idle time in many families that parents are working and hobbies have not yet begun. I think those afternoons should be put to better use. Similarly, cooperation with sports clubs there in the afternoons of schools may also be one way to lower the threshold for hobbies and also the costs for families. It is very important for this government that every child and young person has the opportunity to have at least one hobby for themselves, and with various measures we aim to make this possible. We are also trying to curb the cost increases that are especially found in larger cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u126	The debate will now proceed with the Prime Minister's speech. For this section we have 2 hours available. — The Prime Minister starts in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u127	Mr President! The Government’s plan to put an end to living in debt in public finances in 2021 is based on the fact that on the one hand, expenditure will be frozen to around 55 billion in the state budget and the balance of revenue and expenditure will be achieved roughly at a time when the employment rate reaches the 72% threshold. Well, what means do we have to do this? Firstly, in the short term, we have put in place this heavy savings package of EUR 4 billion; secondly, in the longer term, spending will be curbed by major reforms, the most important of which is the reform of social welfare and health care; and, for example, the transport cycle announced yesterday plays an important role in this; and thirdly, the employment rate target, once we have achieved it, will also reduce employment expenditure. These three elements constitute the main means of keeping the expenditure side under control. The revenue side requires that we reach a growth rate of 2 % and that employment rate reaches a level of 72%. This government is also committed to ensuring that we do not pass on the problems of public finances to municipalities. The municipalities would then have to compromise on their basic services. Thus, the local government finances will be brought into line with the same timetable, already in a good career, and the balance of local government finances will be fully achievable in 2021. Raising the tax rate, continuing to increase, has taken on the competitiveness of Finland, the competitiveness of Finnish work, and the decline in competitiveness has been reflected in employment. This, in turn, revolves around the growing expenditure burden on public finances, and we now need to get rid of this cycle. The increase in taxes is therefore not in the government's choice of means for balancing public finances. Well, then, the most important thing is employment. The government’s main objective is therefore to increase the employment rate from the current 68,7 % to 72 %. Public opinion, and also the spirit of this hall, seems to regard the goal as unrealistic. However, in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the employment rate is well above our target. There is no such thing as preventing us from reaching the level of the Nordic partners. They say you get what you measure — you get what you measure. At the same time, when our high employment rate targets are constantly in public debate, at times also under heavy criticism, the acceptance of the means needed for this goal is gradually increasing. It is hoped that achieving this goal will become a common goal for all of us and for the nation. The strengthening of the national economy requires, on the one hand, improving cost competitiveness and, on the other hand, investing in high value added products and services and digitalisation. In the situation in Finland, as I said yesterday, there are also positive flashes of light. There is much to be welcomed, but these signals are still very delicate. However, the long-standing economic contraction is behind it. According to the latest data, output grew by 1.5 per cent in July from the corresponding period of the previous year. The employment rate rose by one percentage point per year and unemployment went down by one percentage point. The uncertainty of the same Finns about the maintenance of employment has decreased significantly, which has supported the growth of private consumption. The long-standing circle of despair and apathy has now turned to hope for a better, becoming a meining process. When we can still translate it in Finland 100 to do it together, no one will stop us. Then I want you to pay off a few words. The Government’s fiscal policy line is to strengthen growth and employment. Taxes on earnings will be reduced by as much as EUR 500 million, while pensioners will receive a corresponding reduction. In this period, the main measures so far have therefore been this 515 million in this budget, 135 million for pensioners and 450 million for this year. These are all targeted at low and middle incomes. The government has tightened the taxation of high incomes by continuing the so-called solidarity tax and lowering its lower limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u130	Now is the time to ask for answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u131	Mr President! This theme of next year's Finnish centenary is truly Together, and in this Chamber quite a few of us were together a while ago, the most important thing is that we go over this difficult economic valley together in such a way that everything is carried along, that is to say, to ensure that fair means are used to adjust the economy, and to ensure that income disparities do not increase. Well, yesterday it became clear that this government's tax line, which the Prime Minister granted, will benefit most of the highest incomes in terms of euros and relative terms. This is what happened last night. In addition to looking at this budget side of expenditure, Kela has made an estimate that these decisions by you will increase child poverty, increase old age poverty, increase general poverty
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u132	Mr President! In difficult times, action should be taken to defend what is valuable, and now it seems that the government is not making the reforms it is talking about, but the government is doing the cuts that weaken the position of the disadvantaged, education and the future of children. At the same time, Sweden is investing in these very things. — I hope that the Prime Minister will listen and not laugh with the minister next door. Mr President! You are now cutting more from the higher education institutions on the Prime Minister's own idea, even though they were promised not to cut more. So, under the guise of the Kiki agreement, you will cut over EUR 20 million next year and over EUR 40 million over several years from universities — although they are not part of the public sector officially, even though they are otherwise treated by the Minister of Finance as separate actors, you will cut them off, even though they were involved in the Kiki agreement with good faith that they can retain and develop this money. How do you, Prime Minister, respond to universities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u133	Mr President! It is possible to look at this budget next year from two different perspectives. The first is the impact on equality and inequality. As we have heard here, basic safety cuts result in lower earnings for low-income Finns, and those who benefit most from these tax reductions are also the high-income ones. The biggest impact on purchasing power is on Finns who earn more than EUR 7000 a month, and for pensioners, for example, purchasing power decreases for all pensioners who receive less than EUR 2500 a month's pension. Another aspect is employment. It is possible to promote employment by reducing income tax, yes, but from the point of view of employment, the key would then be to have the greatest possible impact on purchasing power. And now that these purchasing power effects are the biggest for high incomes, while the purchasing power of low incomes is falling,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u134	I would ask that we stick to this minute and everyone will have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u135	Mr President! As we know, raising employment is the key issue so that we can continue to finance our welfare society. Here we have put forward ten points, which the government has not yet fully adopted. I would now like the government to take seriously, among other things, what we have raised from the point of view of the RKP: investment in well-being at work. Professor Guy Ahonen said here a few months ago that if we were to invest more in well-being at work, we could save up to billions of dollars, because it is a question of 25 billion today that people retire in advance and feel unwell, sick leave and so on. Have you in the government thought these things through properly? Then we should also take into account the fact that the whole country should be involved in the future in such a way that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u136	Mr President! In due course, all governments will also make good decisions. Prime Minister, that is what your government has done. When you make good decisions, we are in favour. You mentioned this reduction in entrepreneurship. In addition to this, I can tell you that we are also very much in favour of the conversion of VAT into payment. Yesterday, in your speech, you spoke of inheritance tax changes that ensure the continuity of Finnish family businesses. That, too, is an excellent decision. But then to the worries. The Government proposes to amend the provision on the amount of child allowance in the Child Welfare Act. This change is intended to implement the Government’s budgetary plan. This decision on child replacement surgery is surprising, given how especially you downtown people promised not to operate on child supplements. Now you cut them in three ways: by permanently abolishing index increases and by abolishing the deduction of children from taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u137	Mr President! Finland needs more exports, more jobs, more tax revenue. In that sense, it is quite amazing that the Greens and Left Alliance are opposed to measures to improve the competitiveness of Finland's basic industries and to the whole chain of activities around the basic industries, as well as measures on entrepreneurship. The Left Alliance, the Greens and the Democrats are opposed to entrepreneurship reduction. It is a question of fairness: the position of partnerships is brought to the same level as that of limited companies. We need more small-scale entrepreneurs, SMEs, and in this respect this measure, which the government is taking, is a question of justice. As far as purchasing power is concerned, it is quite incomprehensible that a tax policy solution relating to this competitiveness pact is being shot down here. Now you are opposed to the solution that brought about the historic competitiveness pact in Finland as a result of the central government and the government as a whole. Of course, Demars, you're upset.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u138	Mr President! Yesterday I said that this is the best budget in my political history. This government has been at a crossroads: either to continue on the cutting line of previous governments or to invest in growth now. This government is investing in growth, and this is a particularly important line in my view. The government has done a number of very good things in this budget: it has just created the conditions for growth and created the jobs to achieve the ambitious target of the employment rate which the government has, 72%, measures to promote exports, small entrepreneurship, and then I think that this tax reduction is a very good thing, but about a billion. This reduction in earnings, EUR 240 million, is targeted at low and medium incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u139	Mr President! In a parliamentary democracy, of course, the opposition should criticise the government's actions and point out alternatives which, of course, have not been seen much. But I am surprised that here in Finland the opposition is now blaming everything and sees nothing good when there are positive signs in the Finnish economy. Representative Ville Niinistö here said that this government is not making any reforms. Well, this government is doing more reforms than any government in which the Greens have been involved: pension reform — a huge reform. The war's progressing. The traffic cycle — a major reform. Dismantling the standards. Important reforms are also being made on the school side, even though savings have also been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u140	Mr President! Representative Lindtman described these changes in poverty rates in different population groups. There are people behind them. I have traveled a lot among the people in the field and bumped into pensioners who wondered if they were buying food or medicine. Government measures have contributed to this. I have run into the parents of the children who wonder why their child has only half a teacher when the government cuts off the education. I have come across students who are thinking about their livelihood at the beginning of next year when the government cuts 28 per cent of the income. I have met unemployed people who think that when they reach 300 or 400 days, 1500 euros of total aid or 3000 euros of pre-emergency income will come out of 4500 euros. Mr President! This government discriminates and divides Finnish society in a very violent way. Prime Minister Sipilä, has the Alchio matter been forgotten? He says that the cause of the poor must never be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u141	Mr President! "Of which 72% of the employment objective is left behind,the source of This was said by Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo Yle in First Saxon last Saturday. The Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, has also said that the mid-term debate will introduce new cuts if the employment objective is not met. Every single economist's assessment, and also a statistical review, suggests that this objective will be missed. So there's a new operating list coming in. If the government's economic policy leaves the ground, is the government, Prime Minister Juha? Sipilä, ready to introduce new means, new structural reforms or even to take advantage of the recommendation of the Economic Policy Review Council and Roope Uusitalo to make better use of the tax base in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u142	Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Niinistö and then Mr Orpo, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u143	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, when you announced the government programme, you said: "The strong and the well-off must take greater responsibility." I agree with that. When you look at this budget proposal and the calculations made by Parliament's information service, you have forgotten this. The budget for next year will be cut, hand-held revenue will be reduced by 20% of the poorest. At the same time, you give the most to the richest 10%, to those who earn 7,000 euros a month or more. I wonder how this message of yours has been forgotten in a year. I was wondering if Alkio would be in his grave when the president of the city centre, Prime Minister. She's become Robin Hood, standing on top of her, and she'll take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u144	Mr President! The Greens will say it out loud if the government does something good, and I would like to say that the round of traffic that came out yesterday is a good reform that we support. It will increase competition, create more jobs and, above all, there will be great opportunities for digitalisation. This is exactly the kind of reform we want from the government, which will provide jobs and promote the market economy, but will not weaken the position of the weaker or cut back on education. Our main message is that the government has taken a short-sighted view of the budget for the following year so that it seeks a certain amount of cuts and they are carried out, whether they are reasonable or not. That is our criticism when we need more reform, and I am encouraging it. That is why I would like to stress that it is truly perverse that, while Sweden is investing in education and research and product development, more money is being put here for the inefficient business subsidies that experts criticise. All of us experts say that inefficient business subsidies should be reduced and fair market economies and competition promoted. State aid should be incentives for economic reform, not permanent old-fashioned subsidies, and here I want to challenge the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u145	Mr President! Employment is a key issue. The government’s target of 72% of the employment rate means that more and more people of working age and working capacity will be able to participate in the labour market, their situation will improve. It has a broad impact on the well-being of society. It is quite clear that if you do not get that and if you are not on that path, you have to do more. That is why the government has put employment at the forefront. We want to do everything possible to get as many people as possible to work. There's no other way. And if the economy does not grow, if employment does not improve, it means very bad times for the whole Finnish economy. I have not said that we would be in this situation next spring. We are doing everything we can to improve employment, to stimulate growth. The key is the numerous actions in the budget, and also the reforms that are under preparation — and specifically the reforms. Mr Niinistö is quite right in that it is only by reforming our society into a more dynamic society that exploits digitalisation, robotisation and new technology, and by always making it worthwhile by breaking down incentive traps, that we will achieve the sustainable growth we can use to save our welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u146	Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u147	Mr President! I'll continue with a few words about this debt. Yesterday's debate showed that this year or next year there would be more debt than in the Rinte budget for 2015. If you take this budget book, the annex at the end of it, out on page 69, it will look at the indebtedness of public finances, and we must always look at the net lending figures when we talk about debt. Of these net figures, one-off income items such as funds, business income and government sales income have been cleared out. — Now the representative It looks like they're laughing at you this time. — This table shows that Rinte’s budget for 2015 took more debt than it is now. So our goal is that the last line of this table in 2021 will be zero. This means, therefore, that living in debt in public finances will then have ceased. And this review must also take into account the fact that central government finances are burdened, as one-off items, by the financing of key projects, which totals 1.6 billion in total, and are scheduled for 2016, 2017 and 2018, which will no longer exist in 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u150	There seems to be a need to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u151	Mr President! I would now like the Prime Minister to understand that this government is taking on more debt because it is allowed to give tax reductions to its own interests. Finns today have been very concerned and understandably: inequality is growing, and many Finns, indeed, have hoped that Robin Hood would appear from the Sherwood forest. And, of course, the big disappointment was that it wasn't Robin Hood, it was the Sheriff of Nottingham, who now cuts from the poor and gives to the rich.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u152	Mr President! It is very good that Mr Viitanen quotes the Alchio. The embryo also said that it was necessary to strengthen the chances of man's self-surviving, that is, he spoke of his own responsibility. It is indeed a good thing, Mr President, that now, as the Finnish Independence Day approaches, we will get rid of this failure to do so during the last parliamentary term, the line of tax increases on the road to reform, as Mr Zyskowicz has well described here. Finland cannot rise from the hair, as the opposition here imagines. It is not this Donald Trump rhetoric that lifts this Finland up, ladies and gentlemen, but we really need to tackle the real reforms, lift Finland up together when we turn a century, put Finland in order, as we do under Prime Minister Sipilä. Come with me!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u153	Mr President! Unfortunately, the big picture of this beautifully illustrated 100-year-old Finnish budget is an increase in income inequality and inequality. It makes me angry that the government is talking about trying to create a picture of the fact that we are now handing out a hand to the low-income, although the fact is that all the calculations show that the government's policies will weaken the livelihoods of the low-income groups next year: the unemployed are impoverished, the low-income pensioners are impoverished, the students are impoverished. In addition, the livelihood and life of these same people are hampered, for example, by increases in customer fees and pharmaceutical reimbursement cuts. At the same time, more than hundreds of euros are given to those on good income. Is this right, and is this line even geared to the economy in a sensible way, because we know that people with low incomes are using their income directly for consumption and thus benefit the entire national economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u154	Mr President! It now seems, Mr opposition, that all those whom the opposition has met are young, old, pensioners, students, families with children, But I ask the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister: should more be done? For example, it is now a question of the entrepreneur's social security side that it should be inspired on the entrepreneurship side. One is, for example, the insurance side of entrepreneurs: an annual premium of less than EUR 10000 does not provide any income security if the conditions for entrepreneurship are lost in a certain way. The situation for entrepreneurs is that four days is the so-called ‘deposit period’ in the absence of any sickness benefits or that the family members of the entrepreneur are also interpreted as entrepreneurs. More could now be done — whether or not
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u155	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Jaskar, first of all, for the challenge. Last night, the SDP was there to discuss their challenges and opportunities with Finnish Entrepreneurs. Prime Minister, entrepreneurs are waiting for new openings. They are also looking forward to opening up to internationalisation. And for this we certainly need those locomotives, the big companies that Mr Niinistö was concerned about — mainly their subsidies. It is therefore a question of Finland's tax revenue, productivity and value added. But why is Sweden succeeding? Why do they have economic growth? Why can they maintain a welfare state? Do we really think in this Chamber that we cannot challenge Sweden on this issue — that is, export and export-related know-how? What do you think, Prime Minister, are we going to be able to win Sweden in this fight?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u156	Mr President! The government has been repeatedly criticised for not making any impact assessments. You do not assess the impact of your decisions on income differences, you do not assess gender impacts, you do not assess child effects. If you look closely at this budget, you will see that it is once again an anti-equality budget. One reason for this is that when you make it difficult for women to go to work by reducing day care, the employment rate for women will fall. In comparison with Sweden, family policy has supported the conditions for women to work. You do nothing to ensure that family policy is more equal in Finland. You don't equalize the cost of parenting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u159	I would ask that we stick to this agreed time. — Let us now take Mr Strand, Mr Kaikonen and Mr Lindtman, and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u160	Värderade Talman! Prime Minister, this book describes well how coordination, the broadness of the key problems and the overall picture and vision are highlighted in the Government's work and leadership. It is, of course, particularly important for a small country such as Finland to take care of the operating conditions of the sectors and export clusters which, fortunately, we still have. Under no circumstances should we succumb to old-fashioned sector bureaucracy without an in-depth assessment of the economic dynamics. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: for example, has the overall impact of the huge social welfare reform been analysed in relation to the most important of all what Mr Skinner was talking about, namely the operating conditions of the high-processing industry on the growing market?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u161	Mr President! It is a bit unreasonable to say now that the government is doing nothing, for example, to improve the labour market position of women.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u166	Mr President! If the Prime Minister, in the middle of everything, wants to change the figures that are being examined, then that too is possible, but if it is, then what you said in the Budget Info and also the Minister of Finance said is nonsense. Because if we do according to that same table, next year's debt will increase and not decrease, contrary to what you said in the budget information. Let's just change the rules in the middle, but you better be careful not to talk about yourself in the bag. Well, yeah, that's what I'm talking about. We use the figures that the government has previously spoken of debt, and there is no doubt that debt is higher this year than it was this year in the Rinte era. Mr President! Now, however, the Prime Minister is circumventing this key issue. What are the full effects of government decisions on the inequality of Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u167	Prime Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u168	Mr President! First of all, these tax reductions for their own interests: pensioners, low and middle incomes, small entrepreneurs and the generation of business exchanges. Well, then there's a reference here to this table, which came from the kiky deal. In the Kiky agreement, the social partners agreed, among other things, that the sickness insurance contribution should be transferred from employers to employees, and this is a tax-deductible item. It is clear that it will have a greater impact there at the top of the tables, and the government corrected this by its own actions in such a way that tax reductions are made for those on low and medium incomes. That's how you get the exactly straight curve you can get. So the government fixed this. Then my embryo will know me. The embryo notes, among other things, that if the production of a nation is lower than consumption, its economy goes towards a state of decay. Then about winning Sweden: The spirit of grasping this hall too, that the goal of the employment rate can be fully achieved and fully possible. We need to find ways to raise the employment rate. Well, here's to the Status of women
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u169	Mr President! On this entrepreneurship reduction: That's the same problem as the government's tax line anyway. So why, when resources are scarce, give the most money to those who need it least? In Finland, we have a huge number of self-employed, small entrepreneurs who live on very low incomes and who do not benefit from this entrepreneurial reduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u172	Mr President! I believe that the Prime Minister knows his Alchio, but I said this key phrase of the Alkio: the cause of the poor must never be forgotten. I think it would be good to have an answer to Mr Lindtman's question about how you yourself judge the policy of this government from the point of view of inequality, the division of society. When the Finnish Social Insurance Institution’s survey clearly shows that there is a Gini coefficient rising in Finland, it clearly shows that poverty is increasing for the different Finnish population groups, so how do you yourself assess whether the government’s policy is fair and fair towards the ordinary people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u173	Mr President! I agree that the economy is an instrument for getting people's well-being right, but if economic policy makes decisions that cut off those who are just weaker, then it goes against the objective we should have, which is precisely to strengthen the unity of Finns and the ability of everyone to pursue their dreams. Next year's budget will increase child poverty, the danger of a child's class society, will also be cut from the second level so that young people's school drop-outs, especially in the outlying regions of boys, are at risk of increasing. This cannot be the direction in which Finland’s economy and well-being are rising, that it is becoming increasingly difficult to get education. I also disagree with the Prime Minister on the value base. You openly admit that your aim was to cut off the public sector, both employers and workers, and to pass on the benefits to private companies from the benefit of their employees' pay clippings. So the nurses, the teachers and the police are paying for this, and they have been cut off from the holiday money so that many of them are left at a disadvantage even though tax cuts are coming, and that is the result of your policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u174	Mr President! When a disease is long - term and serious, surgery is usually ahead, and it is necessary. Finland has long-term, seven to eight years, been seriously ill in its economy. It was treated here in past years, perhaps seven years, with a tax patch and a debt pill, and they only made things worse. It has now been recognised in this government programme and government that surgery is necessary to heal the patient. Of course, for a short time, the cutting will be extremely painful, but few people will refuse it when they know that after a successful operation there are good years ahead. And we can see now that the cuts have already begun to have an impact: employment is improving, debt is falling, GDP is rising — unlike in the last period, when all these went red, in the wrong direction, with those wrong medicines. That's why we have a future now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u175	Mr President! Mr Jokinen referred here yesterday, in his group speech, to Kalevi Sorsa's saying that there is no need to look for the culprits; we are all here. In this big picture of the economy, if you look at it from a slightly longer time horizon, Finland's current account has practically gone downhill for 15 years. Fortunately, we are now beginning to see a small upward trend, which is the most essential thing if we are to continue this income-sharing debate. With all due respect, Mr opposition, you have very well raised these issues of income distribution, but I have not heard much from you on the matter of income acquisition. You have all been on the board during the period when the costs of unemployment in Finland have doubled and the employment rate has not increased. This is not a reproach, but this is a fact. And then I would assume that you too should bring some positive tone to the debate and tell us about the labour market issues with which we can raise the employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u176	Mr President! Here the opposition tells us that the government is indeed distributing money to its own supporters, and that is what it is doing. Our supporters are carpenters, barbers, small entrepreneurs in creative industries, including farmers, even reindeermen. They will be eased by this entrepreneurial deduction, facilitated by payment-based VAT. This government, which has been operating for a year now, has taken up issues that many governments have not taken up. We are reforming the traffic side in the traffic cycle, for the first time we are experimenting with the greens' gentle basic income, and the regional and social welfare reform is being carried out. It is wonderful that Santeri Alkio is now apparently the mentor of all parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u177	Mr President! It is quite clear that the employment rate will not be raised by raising taxes. I think it has to be said out loud. But instead, we have to look at the whole package. In this respect, I agree that a proper impact assessment should be carried out on what the reforms that are now being carried out will in practice mean for the most vulnerable, because we will increase our own responsibility for medicines, care costs, travel costs and so on, and so on, and we want to do a social welfare reform, which, in the worst case scenario, will also differentiate citizens from what the situation is today. I still hope, Prime Minister, that you will answer the question as to why we are splitting the land into the A and B provinces, of which the A provinces have full emergency services and six B provinces do not. This is a big deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u178	Mr President! The budget for next year is still 5.5 billion in deficit, and if we are honest here in the Chamber, public sector debt will not only be controlled by tax tightening or cuts here. We need economic growth and we will not get it without a new export market. In the KD, we are concerned about the state of care for the elderly as much as we are about the survival of families with children. But what is also worrying after yesterday's debate is that in 2020 there will still be a deficit of 3.3 billion but it will magically disappear in the following year, 21 C.E. Yesterday I asked you what means you could make this go away, and the Prime Minister's answer was that the debt would stop about on the day when the employment rate was 72%. I'll ask the Prime Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u179	Mr President! The government is ruthlessly transferring taxpayers' money to the owners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u182	Mr President! As is constantly being repeated here, it is a matter of getting people to work. For people to be employed, we need a truly flexible labour market, employment needs to be more profitable and work needs to be more profitable. So we need a local settlement. Attention must be paid to the fact that companies have an important role to play in terms of the cost of work and working conditions. But then the third thing that would make work more profitable — one example: If a single mother in Helsinki, the mother of two kindergarten children, receives a raise from EUR 1500 to EUR 2000, then there was an earlier increase of EUR 35, now more than EUR 70, because of the reduction in childcare fees. But these are also the wedges to which attention should be paid, because if those wedges are removed from the day care fee, in the case of income tax for people with low or low wages,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u183	Mr President! The poor thing must never be forgotten, but unfortunately you, Mr Sipilä, seem to have forgotten it. When you look at the calculations of the parliamentary information service, 20 per cent of the poorest people in Finland are those who are left behind in this budget. Those who make more than 7,000 euros a month get the biggest plus. It is a question of fairness, of division of society, but it is also a question of employment policy, in which we all share the common objective of raising the employment rate. It must be raised by the fact that exports are driven, but at present employment is sustained by the domestic market, domestic demand. Prime Minister, when you give most of all to those who earn more than EUR 7000 a month, do you imagine that they will spend every additional euro and cent?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u184	Mr President! Ministers here have rightly stressed the importance of a high employment rate for the future of our country. Fortunately, we already have joys in some areas and sectors, and the promising growth of the maritime industry, for example, is also reflected in the whole of Finland, especially when the subcontracting network covers the whole of Finland, and there is even strong growth, not just sprouting growth. However, this growth has its challenges, namely access to a trained workforce, whether it be secondary professionals, university engineers, diploma engineers or higher university of applied sciences graduates. This is visible in the city of Turku, which is a city of higher education: there is a clear skills gap in the technical fields. I therefore hope that the government, when it comes to solutions, will have the understanding to ensure the availability of skilled labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u185	Mr President! There was criticism here of the EUR 2500 allocation for family leave and the way in which it is done. This is an historic achievement. This is the size of the leap in this area that has never been made before. I know that these reforms and corrections have been introduced gradually, but this is very important, and now much more than half of those costs have been offset after this decision. Then, on the left, I will throw back this criticism of the fairness of taxation. As far as I am concerned, the idea that these reductions will be given as a percentage has left the labour market table and, when they are given as a percentage, the effect is precisely that the larger ones will receive more from them. Why do you not change that practice at the labour market table so that it is a certain equal sum for everyone? Then let's talk about justice, not before. A certain equal sum for all, then we can talk about fairness. That system was created at the labour market table, look in the mirror!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u186	Reply, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, followed by the Minister for Finance and Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u187	Mr President! The government has completely ignored the impact of spending cuts on basic and human rights. Expenditure cuts will further weaken the position of the most vulnerable, and the Council of Europe's Social Rights Committee has already considered the minimum level of income support in Finland to be too weak, and it can be said that as a result of these cuts we will have some difficulties in complying with the European Social Charter. It would have been precisely the policy issues that were needed now to tackle poverty that is most effective in the shadow of a welfare society. A specific policy on income and taxation would be needed to facilitate the daily livelihoods of the most vulnerable. The list includes families with underprivileged children, school drop-outs, long-term unemployed, disabled, over-indebted as well as the poorest pensioners. Don't you think, Sipilä, it's time to turn around and throw out the good-for-good people and improve the position of the weak?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u188	Then the Minister of Finance, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u189	Mr President! To this issue of employment, where there are actually a few elements: The first is competitiveness. A competitiveness agreement has been concluded on its behalf, which undoubtedly improves the competitiveness of Finnish exports in particular. The first negative income solution for decades, and it must be appreciated that workers' organisations have also wanted to go. It is an undeniable aid to this competitiveness and will thus support employment development. The second element is the domestic demand that we are currently relying on. It is supported by this tax solution, unquestionably, certainly. It is also supported by a number of investments that are currently being made in basic infrastructure management, infrastructure projects, the dismantling of the repair debt. There are a lot of issues in key projects that support domestic demand and domestic investment. The third is an important question: the point. We currently have as many job vacancies as we did in 2008 before this frontier migration began. That is why we have now set up in the middle row a determined work to attack the income traps so that it is always worthwhile to accept the work. Payments, taxes and benefits are all reviewed and dissolved. Let us hope that concrete results will be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u190	Prime Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u191	Mr President! First of all, this entrepreneurial discount. It does, of course, aim to make it the only one trying to hire a guy, make more money and see the possibility there. After all, tax changes always seek dynamic effects. Well, why not do it by raising the VAT threshold? This is also explained in this report presented by the Minister for Finance, but it is not entirely problematic either. For example, in a barbershop, if you go beyond the VAT limit, it is easy to get into the next chair so that you have to go to the next chair. We also want more employers, and I believe that this should also be the aim of the SDP, that not everyone should be forced to become entrepreneurs. From this point of view of division, Mr Rinne: the most important thing is to increase the employment rate. During this reign, between 25,000 and 30,000 people are now working. We have a good career, a goal path here, and that is the most important action in two ways. Firstly, work is the best remedy for many problems, the fact that we feel we need ourselves and so on, and then the other half is that that is how we get public finances in order. Well, then get on with it. Kiki doesn't operate on any employers. The financial position remains the same. There is constant misinformation about this. The financial position stays the same. It's the whole point of the whole thing. In accordance with the Competitiveness Agreement, this will mainly address the competitiveness of the export industry’s business, cost competitiveness. This is just part of the whole solution. If the lessons of this hall now move forward, I am very confused about this section of kiky.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u192	Mr President! It is quite clear that increasing economic growth and increasing employment rates, reducing unemployment are key issues when, in the long term and in the shorter term, Finnish society is being pushed forward. But what we have criticised with regard to the government is, in particular, this differential line of expenditure policy. As I said, in the calculation of the Social Insurance Institution, poverty is clearly increasing in Finland, and the people behind it are the people. You have not answered this question when I have asked many times how you see the unequal development of this aspect of expenditure, which divides society, influencing the climate of Finnish society. The SDP has put forward concrete measures, an active employment policy. We have put forward concrete measures on employment. We have put forward concrete measures to strengthen exports, strengthen domestic markets. From there, Prime Minister, you must take some leave for the government to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u193	Mr President! The competition before the elections for who cuts the most is as much nonsense populism as the constant debate on fear and terror in this Chamber. I therefore recommend the application of economics, business economics or household science to central government finances. Among other things, Danske Bank estimates that during the period of mass unemployment and lower interest rates, it would make sense to increase government revenue, reduce unemployment, support restructuring and thus reduce the deficit, reduce its debt. Now that the government’s economic policy is apparently losing its basic base due to the run-off of the unemployment target, would the government perhaps be prepared to consider that more vigorous structural reforms in the pipeline and through it even if the debt gas could be weighed down for a little more time? And if you don't believe me, listen to the congressman Juhana Vartiaista of the Coalition Party here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u194	Mr President! What is not in this budget is also essential: there is no increase in VAT.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u197	Mr President! I was thinking in my blog, which is perhaps worth reading for others too, about the overall tax system and how it could be intelligently developed in the future. One of the ideas put forward by economists is that VAT rates should be harmonised. If you go into the calculation exercise, if VAT rates are harmonised to 24%, EUR 2.4 billion will be added to the state's treasury and you can put EUR 0.8 billion directly into the basic deduction of municipal tax and directly support people in this way. That would be such an economical starting point here. It is always compensated through direct support, preferably.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u198	Mr President! We agree on many things in this Chamber. Only better employment and a better economy can maintain and maintain this welfare society. And they all agree that new entrepreneurs are needed, new export markets are needed and new companies are needed to replace imports. Well, how are our opinions divided? How do we get these new companies? Therefore, the government is investing, for example, in a reduction in the number of new businesses. There is always a risk when you become an entrepreneur, and there is a need for stimuli to reduce and dim the risk. For both existing and possibly new entrepreneurs, therefore, a stimulus is needed. Entrepreneurial deduction is clearly one of the things that entrepreneurs have wanted and now received. I believe that this is the way forward, and that is the hope that we all share.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u199	Mr President! I am still amazed at the speech and its purpose of the representative Kaima Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u202	Mr President! I did not just recognise myself as a social partner, as Mrs Anttila said here, but the government is the one who takes tax decisions, and in the previous period those tax decisions were taken in such a way that income disparities were reduced. Now this has not been done with the same model and logic, but is now growing income differentials. And that is the decision of the government, it is not the decision of the social partners. The labour market organisations have agreed on other issues in grievances, but taxation is a matter for the government. Now for this growth. It is gratifying that it has started, but when all these activities are carried out, how will it fade next year? What is the logic here, since all these good government tasks are being carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u203	Mr. Speaker! In yesterday's debate, several representatives here described the debates that have taken place with the citizens during this summer. As far as I am concerned, one of the most important messages from the citizens to us is that now make the necessary reforms — make the necessary reforms. In this line, the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance are currently in the process, and I wonder why they are constantly calling into question the effects and meanings of the reforms, often, even the meanings and effects that come directly to improving the conditions for entrepreneurship: inevitably measures to create jobs, to promote business development, and thus to improve our well-being and so on. It is clear that the fate link is with the goal of raising the employment rate, 72%, indebtedness and securing well-being. It's a very clear connection to fate, and that's what the government's doing now. But I agree with the criticism that we have here, that we have the export efforts and the acquisition of new products.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u204	Mr President! On this competitiveness pact. It was not a fair solution, nor has the Left Alliance considered it to be the right remedy for the problems that Finland is currently facing in terms of the economy. Public sector employees pay the highest price for the competitiveness pact and their wage cuts are also not compensated by these tax reductions, but by lower earnings levels for public sector employees. I also think it represents the labour market thinking of the past. It is thought that Finland’s competitiveness will be improved by extending working hours and reducing wages. I have been around quite a few companies in the summer and I have not yet met a company manager who would have said to me that 'yes, the extension of working time is central to the competitiveness of my company'. I read the CFO barometer this spring: none of the business leaders who responded to it
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u205	Mr President! I would like to ask the Prime Minister how it would be easier to balance and reform the economy. It seems that power is dispersed in many directions: it is shared by social partners as well as by officials from the Ministry of Finance. This may also be a good thing. The government also has power, but Prime Minister, do you feel that you have sufficient tools to bring about change? The debate between the government and the opposition could be more forward-looking. Is our political system working? What can we do better to reform Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u206	Mr President! It has also been discussed why the employment situation in Sweden is much better. That is where the employment rate is currently 75%, and we are at 67. Well, Sweden, among other things, has a completely different family leave system than we do in Finland. If you walk around Stockholm and look around, you'll see a lot of young men with young children. Even in Finland, you can see these men with children during the day, but not as much as in Sweden. That is why, Prime Minister, we have called for proper family policy reform so that we can get more women to work. We must have the courage to see those opportunities, and here we should now take off those ideological straitjackets and see that there is an opportunity here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u207	Mr President! In 73 C.E., when Martti Mittunen was put in charge of the emergency government
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u212	Then there is Mr Lindtman and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u213	Mr President! Now we have new information on this entrepreneurial reduction, this pharmacy reduction. The Prime Minister has today stated that entrepreneurship reduction targets very small enterprises in all the essential aspects. Both on Tax Day and now here you justified these figures. According to information received just moments ago, the Finnish Information Office says that the entrepreneurship reduction envisaged by the Government favours people of the highest income categories most. This is clear from the memo made in the Parliamentary Information Service. Mr President! Now, Prime Minister, this assessment of yours is going into a rather strange light. Is that really so? If so, are you ready to fix it? And the reason why we are asking this is, Prime Minister, that you yourself named inequality as one of the biggest problems in Finland just a moment ago. Now, in all decisions, this inequality is increasing. There is also a name for this: cold politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u214	Prime Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u215	Mr President! I said in both Tax Days and here exactly this: "The new entrepreneurship reduction targets very small companies in all the essentials." Listen to the follow-up: "On the basis of the 2014 tax data, 77% of taxable profit-producing traders had an annual result of less than EUR 30000. For passenger companies, the corresponding figure was 79 per cent." This was my message. Then there are the other questions. Regarding the measures to be taken next year: Wage support. We are seeking new forms of the use of unemployment funds in a more active form, and this is at the table of the social partners, to which Mr Kaikkonen referred. It's very positive, I'm very optimistic that the result of the 10,000 people who work here comes from there. Mr Östman then asked what part is still missing in order to be able to end living in debt in 21 C.E. The missing share is the employment rate, which means that we recognise that there is not enough action to do so. Mr Andersson, perhaps that kiky agreement could have made more progress at local level — you nod, apparently you agree. If that were the way, then we absolutely agree on it. Then from this information service material: apparently this does not take into account the approximately 30 million that have been reserved there for the lowest incomes, because it has not yet been targeted. Then on the tax cuts: Representative Turunen, raising VAT has not even been in discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u216	Mr President! Prime Minister, you said here a few hours ago that 500 million will now come for tax relief and the same will happen to pensioners. Now I would like to ask when the Minister in the Committee on Budgets, which is, by the way, this Committee on Budgets, visited to tell us that of this 500 million, it will first be 100 million people who are hard-working and earn more, and then give 400 million to other, hard-working people who earn more, and also to other people who earn more. And let's say the same thing is given to pensioners. Well, what is the reason why, now that we add these things together, the purchasing power of pensioners will fall, the purchasing power of low-income people with guaranteed pensions and national pensions will fall by 2%, and those who earn EUR 7000 will get $70 a month and those who earn EUR 2000 will get $20 a month? Please explain: Who speaks the modified truth?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u217	Minister of Finance, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u218	Mr President! I do not know exactly what to explain when I do not recognize what I said yesterday in the Committee on Budgets. But let us take this one more time: the effects of the Kiki Agreement's payments and changes led to a reduction in the taxation of high incomes and taxes of around 125 million if I remember the figure correctly, and when the government had promised EUR 115 million in tax rebates to the Kiki agreement, that amount in its entirety was allocated to those on low and medium incomes. In addition, the taxation of pensioners will be reduced accordingly and EUR 137 million will be spent on it. So this is the whole, not as you said, you seem to have misunderstood. I may have expressed myself vaguely. This is a very fair solution. In addition, EUR 30 million will be allocated to the most low-income people who pay little or no tax, and we will look for the best model with which we can target. When I have the floor, I would like to say that I quoted this suggestion by Danske Bank's economist that when you get money cheap, you should take it. However, it is a question of the whole and of our debt growing, as has been said here. You too, Mr Aalto, have been concerned about it. That debt would be put on top of that debt again, and when all the debt has to be repaid and when the whole thing affects how our credit rating is assessed, what will affect what is the interest we pay for our debts, I will not immediately warm up. I believe that these discussions, and in particular those of economists, are worth considering and weighing, but I believe that this debt is now very high, and this debt, which is being taken up, is already being used for investment and jobs, so, in principle, the same logic is being used now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u219	Mr President! It's family politics. The government really deserves to thank the mothers' employers for the sum of EUR 2500. Finally, progress was made on that eternity squabble. I find it confusing, astounding that the Greens are constantly trying to drag this good achievement into the mud. The best work on equality would be to close the pay gap between men and women — that is the second question of eternity — and then, of course, to look at the social partners and the group that are closest to it. As far as employment is concerned, we still have some 70,000 job vacancies, and this problem of matching exists. If those jobs were now filled, it would already be a small step towards a 72% employment rate. Prime Minister, what is to be done with that third problem of eternity?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u220	Mr President! As we all know, difficult times and difficult decisions require trust. But unfortunately, Prime Minister Sipilä, you have, by your own actions, undermined this confidence. A year ago you gave a rather touching speech on TV to a nation where you asked pensioners, families with children, students and employees for sacrifices. Many understood this appeal and were prepared to compromise. Now, a year later, you have brought a budget here in Parliament with good tax reductions for pensioners, employees and ordinary entrepreneurs. But you will not escape the fact that this budget proposal also includes completely new tax reductions, a type of deduction for the good people. And as Mr Lindtman just said, STT also texted us that the entrepreneurship reduction envisaged by the government favours people of the highest income categories most,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u221	Mr President! The issue of social exclusion among young people has been mentioned and concerns raised for years. However, it seems that this subject is currently not one of the most media-sexy, that little of it has been widely discussed. However, it would be worth talking about this, namely that the situation of young people has not improved in recent years, quite the opposite. According to a study published last week by the OECD, the proportion of young men in Finland, the proportion of young men who are not in employment and who are outside education, has increased dramatically in recent years, reaching as much as 21.5% last year. Something has been done badly in this country for a long time in recent years. The total cost of exclusion is billions, not to mention human losses, and at worst exclusion leads to radicalisation. We have a wide range of fragmented measures in Finland to prevent exclusion, but this fragmentation may be the problem. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how does the Prime Minister see the seriousness of this situation, and what solutions to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u222	Mr President! Here, the much quoted wise Alkio has also said in some way that strong public finances are the best friend of the poor. Of course, there is also the need to get rid of debt, and I understand that this government policy is taking this country in the direction of getting rid of debt. Of course, there is also the saying that this country is only living with its full power, that is, that this society is able to make the most of the intellectual and physical resources of all its regions effectively, and I understand in that way that all these policies, which the government has now done to develop the whole country, are in many ways positive. But in order to get a question to the end, I ask how the Prime Minister is now assessing this overall budget line for the development of the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u223	Mr President! Prime Minister, I am sure you are familiar with these international reports, the OECD and IMF reports, which indicate that growth in income differentials is slowing down economic growth, and this is where the welfare society is at the heart of it. I was just about to receive a delegation of pensioners, Etu, with representatives from all the groups. They gave us a paper in which they raise the very issues that we Social Democrats raise as a lack of this budget. We do not deny that employment needs to be strengthened; that is quite the first thing. But they do list all these things here: increases in the cost of medicines, cuts in pension indices, which are reflected in all benefits, cuts in housing allowance. All of these together are picky from all sides of the income that is of the utmost importance for those receiving the lowest pension. So I ask you, Prime Minister: are you now behind what you have said, when you have already made public the development of this inequality, which we want to see in the spring?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u224	Please continue to take this minute's response time into account. — I will now give the floor to Mr Häkkänen, Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Rinne. Then the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u225	Mr President! Perhaps a little too many comments have been made in this Chamber on the small details of the budget. It is important to analyse them, but the fact is that the big picture of economic policy, the amount of adjustment and, at the same time, the structural reforms combined with it, is precisely the right line that the OECD, the Bank of Finland, many other economic research institutes have been recommending for Finland for a long time. In other words, these things are considered to be moderate, slightly tightening fiscal policies and at the same time competition-opening measures are being taken in product markets, services markets, increasing incentives for business and gradually reducing debt. This is the line recommended by experts. Here, the Greens were concerned about whether enough debt is being taken — the demars want less debt to be taken. We are taking enough debt, and infra-projects are being made with debt money at the moment. We have more than a dozen, two to thirty in fact, employment measures, as long as not necessarily from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u226	Mr President! According to research and experts, the most effective business support for growth, internationalisation and employment is support for innovation, research and development. However, all these most efficient business aids are now being cut hard and, instead, company subsidies are being increased, which researchers do not consider to be very effective or necessary in this situation. Finland's gross domestic product share of R & D is falling worryingly low, and it is indeed worrying in terms of the conditions under which companies operate and the prospects for employment. So I would like to ask the government: do you have the capacity to look at the whole package of business subsidies from the point of view of effectiveness? And then I would like to say to the representatives of the government that we warmly support measures to improve the social security of entrepreneurs and we expect and hope that the government will bring those proposals here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u227	Mr President! I am a little confused about the Prime Minister's response to this whole corporate tax package when:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u230	Prime Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u231	Mr President! There's a lot of questions that haven't been answered. Let me first answer Mr Henriksson's question about this exercise of linguistic rights. Of course, in the context of this reform of social security, the aim is to ensure that linguistic rights are respected as far as possible. This assessment has now been clarified since this consultation, and the status of Vaasa Hospital, for example, will not change. Mr Elovaara then asked if the Prime Minister had enough tools. The answer must be that we do everything that these tools can do. There have been criticisms that the government is not doing enough reform. On the other hand, someone has argued and criticised that this government is reforming for two or three governments. At least we cannot be blamed for the fact that the reforms are not finally being implemented. Mr Leppä, Mr Kalli, some others raised this problem of the export industry, Mr Korhonen took up regional equality. Perhaps these bioproduct mill projects are now the most concrete example of what is going on — some 30 applications for new projects are submitted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and they are welcomed. They are spread evenly throughout the country, where the natural resources are, and there seems to be an increase in investment. Then I can't believe we're gonna give you the impression that I didn't keep the promises I made in my TV speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u234	At this stage, I will give the answers to the representatives of Rinne, Andersson and Aalto, and then we will begin to emphasise those who have not yet made it out loud.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u235	Mr President! I did not receive an answer in relation to this entrepreneurial reduction that it is now establishing inequalities among entrepreneurs or not. But this big picture now appears to be really bad: if you look at these estimates of poverty by the Social Insurance Institution, the most vulnerable people in this nation will become poorer, child poverty will increase, old-age poverty will increase, poverty will increase in general, the Gini coefficient will decline. Prime Minister, I would now like to ask you about your assessment of this government policy, whether, according to your assessment, the policy of the government is disparate in Finnish society and divide Finnish society into poorer and richer people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u236	Andersson and Aalto and Henriksson will also be taken, and then the Prime Minister will receive a one-minute reply, and then they will be replaced with representatives who have not yet been able to speak out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u237	Mr President! There has been talk here about whether the opposition is going to stick to the small details or to this overall picture. While I welcome the fact that early childhood education payments for low-income people are now decreasing, it is a small detail in relation to this overall picture, and this overall picture, which the opposition has raised here, is that this budget proposal for next year will increase the income gap. So here we are cutting the basic security of Finnish low incomes across the line. These cuts target all Finnish low-income pensioners, the unemployed, those with a lot of suffering and, to a large extent, families with children. And at the same time, when you look at these government tax solutions, they benefit most of all from more than 7,000 euros a month. Their purchasing power in this as a whole is now being increased most.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u238	Mr President! The Government emphasises the importance of economic growth and employment for Finland's well-being. I am sure that we can all agree with this objective in this Chamber. There's a bit of a difference between what we're doing. For example, according to the report of the Economic Assessment Council, tax increases would be less detrimental to economic growth and hence to employment than proposed expenditure cuts. Now that it seems that the government's employment objective is escalating and, through it, the basic basis of the government's economic policy is disappearing, would the government, in this new situation, be prepared to reconsider its assessment of the objectives of the overall tax rate and to implement part of the expenditure adjustment rather than expenditure cuts through the reduction of tax subsidies and deliberate tax increases?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u239	Mr President! We need successful companies in this country. They will create jobs for us that will then generate tax revenue that will fund our society as a whole, and it will be all the more important in the future that we have ideas. Now, however, the government continues to cut back on education and research, although all experts, economists have also stressed that this is in a way the wrong way, and we know that it is harmful for our future. I would like the government to think differently on this point and to reverse these cuts. But then, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your message that the status of Vaasa Hospital will not be changed. It is an important message, and a real big thank you for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u240	Mr President! Of this entrepreneurial reduction: the purpose of this reform is to reduce the tax gap between limited liability companies and partnerships. Of course, when corporation tax fell from 26% to 20%, those who make the most of it will benefit from it. Of course, that's obvious when a percentage is made. And, as I have said today, on the basis of the 2014 tax data, 77% of taxable profit-producing traders had an annual profit below EUR 30000, i.e. below the average income category, and this was 79 % for passenger companies. So this is about the number. Then, if we go there for the distribution of euros, then, according to my estimate from the VM, if we put the limit to 50,000 on high incomes, then this group will now be subject to these tax information that we currently have, 54 per cent of the entrepreneurial deduction. And if we look at the total data, the group of those who receive entrepreneurial income, then the high incomes — that is, over EUR 50000 — account for 44 % of the entrepreneurship reduction. So these are probably the real facts. But the most important thing is that we now, together, acknowledge and accept that Finland can also try to enter a personal enterprise, because it is often a self-involved company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u243	Mr President! The least that the government could do now would be to admit that this budget has an increasing impact on inequality and income inequality. Particularly worrying is the increase in poverty in families with children and the increase in inequality in children, which has a negative impact on the long-term. While there are certainly improvements in the budget to previous government proposals, such as this withdrawal of the increase in early childhood education fees, the fact is that the whole is an increase in child poverty. We are now making the same mistakes as in the recession of the 1990s, when some of the costs that were incurred at that time, for example, from the services of children, from the reduction of basic child protection, are still partly paid today. And that is why I ask where the total impact assessments of children that the government has promised to carry out are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u244	Mr President! Leadership is, above all, a responsibility, it is not an excuse, and now, Mr Red-Green opposition, when you take away those excuses, the only thing that really remains is hot air in the hall. You're here doing election work with no responsibility. You're almost against everything. You're breaking up and you're not ready to build together, and I think the Greens Antero Vart said this the other day, thank you for that. I would like to thank the government for having had the courage, leadership and responsibility to bring forward these major, important reforms and to make a proper assessment of the situation and to make this increase in employment a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u245	Mr President! I'd like to ask the Prime Minister about the government's corporate governance and the investment company Solidium. You have publicly stated that Solidium needs to be activated. The question is: What will activation in practice mean? Does it mean that Solidium has a more active influence on the governments of its listed companies and indirectly on day-to-day management, or that: Solidium will start selling more actively, short-term stock purchases and sales, or does this new activation mean that Solidium will be more active in capping its stock purchases, for example in terms of industries?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u246	Mr President! There has been a great deal of concern during this debate about the integrity and the chasm of society. It seems to me that the main factor causing inequality at the moment is that during the previous parliamentary term we had 100,000 new unemployed people in this country, or this is the amount of jobs we lost. That is precisely what we are trying to achieve and what we are trying to achieve now is a competitiveness pact, which is very difficult for many sectors — yes, it has been recognised here, but we are very grateful to the social partners that they have concluded this agreement. But I have some doubts as to whether or not the opposition is now in favour of or against this competitiveness pact, because the problem involved was that the government then had to balance taxation by means of its own decisions so that those tax reductions were targeted at people on low and medium incomes. For billions of euros, we have work to do in this country, and that is what the government is doing with a basic income experiment. I would have asked the Prime Minister: at what point can we expect results from this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u247	Mr President! Mr Kärnä referred in a slightly wrong way. I would just like to point out that this Chamber is constantly having a confusing debate about what everyone was doing before, rather than focusing on that issue. In other words, Mr Kärnä, this is also your speech on how the red-green opposition does nothing but challenge and guilt, and that is not true either. Let us talk about the budget, talk about the structures of this society, recognise the problems and think about how to solve them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u248	Mr President! It is very good that the competitiveness pact was created. It's great to have a settlement. The agreement was reached between employees and employers as midwives of Prime Minister Sipilä and the Government. I am astounded as a representative. My corner just now, from the debate here, because it now seems that in all the other parliamentary groups this achievement of social harmony is no longer seen as a good thing. That is why, and in this respect, I ask the Prime Minister: would this agreement, which is of particular importance to industry, and especially to the export industry, have been created without these tax cuts, which have been reviled by the opposition all day long? Would there have been this agreement, which was agreed between the employers and the workers, both of which were accepted, without these tax cuts, which the opposition has slandered?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u249	Mr President! I asked for this speech earlier, at the time when the Prime Minister described who would benefit from your decisions, and it puzzled me very much, even because you have not at all familiarised yourself with these gloomy figures in the information service that, overall, the majority of pensioners, for example, are losing purchasing power. Purchasing power's dropping. At the same time, the reports also show the fact that, as a result of your tax reductions, more than EUR 7000 will be most beneficial. And at the same time, seriously, you cut pensions, you cut out families with children, the livelihood of the unemployed, all this. That is why this concern we have expressed has been a great one. President! Yesterday, for example, Minister Orpo flashed an opportunity over all of this,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u250	Mr President! I was also in the process of receiving an association of senior citizens' associations. The message of the past to this future budget, and I must say, referring to this previous speech, there was also praise for the fact that pensioners are also going to have a reduction in taxation next year. But I would like to open up: they gave us this study on the eve of tomorrow, which examines, for example, the fears and concerns of pensioners, and at the moment the top three pensioners have a small amount of pensions — well, we cannot directly influence that at the moment, it is the development of decades — the second solitude — well, the government has already responded to it, we have a top project to try to respond to it and reduce loneliness — and, thirdly, the lack of access to social and health services, and, as we know, we are trying to respond to this by means of social welfare reform. But, Mr President, my real question is:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u251	Mr President! The Kiki deal was a valuable thing. It will stabilise the situation and lay the foundations for the export-driven growth that we urgently need now. I am therefore very surprised that the opposition has such a vague attitude towards this kiky agreement, or, in fact, the position of the Social Democrats is vague. What do you want? Would you, like the Left Alliance, have wanted the labour market to be in total chaos at the turn of the year and strike waves and so on? That would have been a likely alternative to not having been the result of this agreement. The Greens have said, in particular Mrs Aalto, that the Kiky Agreement is the basis for all the reforms in working life now on the basis of the provisions or paragraphs of this agreement. So I ask the Prime Minister: what time is the competitiveness pact?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u252	Mr President! In particular, when listening to yesterday's debate, it came to the view that the government's energy and climate policy was somehow unambitious. I have a slightly different idea. Under the leadership of Minister Tiilikainen, Finland was negotiating a very expected and ambitious Paris climate agreement. In what way do you, Prime Minister, see the government's energy and climate policy and how do you see it, perhaps even higher could these hard targets be set?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u253	Mr President! The Greens have just been called for an analysis of this change in the overall tax rate target. It is based on research and not on any opinion. The OECD, the ECB, many other expert organisations have specifically recommended that countries that already have a high tax rate should make adjustments in the form of expenditure adjustment rather than in the form of tax tightening. And now even these demands of the SDP for additional tax tightening at a time like this, when a fragile growth is about to begin, would also be the worst toxin for economic studies. I have to wonder about this passion of the SDP when you say that nothing should happen to big business, for example. A good reduction in corporate tax has just been made in the last parliamentary term, which now shows positive signs that investment is on the way to growth and employment is on the increase. You are also in favour of emissions trading compensations. That's support for big business, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u254	Mr President! With another representative from Central Finland, Mr Kankaanniemi, I am a little confused about this policy of economic policy of the Social Democrats. However, such a consensus in this Chamber seems to be that the employment rate should be raised from the present. One key means of raising the employment rate is to simplify the social security system. Well, now the government is carrying out the long-awaited and long-awaited basic income experiment. It is clear that the supply of work will also increase demand for work and that the simplification of the social security system can in a certain way break down incentives traps and increase the supply of work. I personally see that basic income is an absolutely essential measure in order to increase the opportunities for small businesses, the opportunities for part-time entrepreneurship, also the opportunities for part-time work and, in this way, to increase the employment rate in the future. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how do you see the basic income test in the future from the point of view of entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u255	Mr President! First of all, when I heard the news here that Vaasa Central Hospital is about to get status similar to what is happening at the moment: what will happen to these other central hospitals that are moving into this mentioned category B? But there are quite a few of these. Of course, I'm personally interested in the situation at Kymenlaakso Central Hospital. If one, then why not the rest of them? Then there are these employment effects. When there is an inheritance tax and a gift tax here, which is thought to be about $40 million good for all those who inherit something, that is, for those who have it, and when there is a basis for employment here, how many jobs have been thought about when inheritance tax and gift tax reliefs are given, then it will come?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u256	Mr President! During this debate, I have really wondered when the opposition is attacking the increase in inequality, the income gap is increasing. The government has taken the right path. The only way to combat these inequalities and inequalities is to get people to work. I am greatly surprised that nothing seems to please you. We have a gradual improvement in the employment situation, significant growth in various sectors, new investments are planned, as the Prime Minister said, around 30 investments in the bioeconomy sector are waiting for a solution there. Everything is positive in front of us, but the complaint is impossible, it seems that you are already afraid of new jobs. Should we do trick jobs, or what should it be for you to avoid it? I am very surprised that you do not have jobs to avoid. Yes, we have a huge number of opportunities in Finland, we just have to take them up and accept that new jobs will be created in Ilomants, Rovaniemi and Utsjoki, not everything can be in Helsinki. Moreover, if we want more congestion here, that means that we are already spending almost 2 billion on housing support. How much more do they want to pay?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u257	The debate is beginning to come to an end, but I would like to give the following answers: Mr Yanar, Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Andersson and Mr Rinne. And then the Prime Minister answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u258	Mr President! I would respond to Mr Häkkänen, who spoke in which he said that there is a lot of research knowledge that we should cut rather than raise taxes. This isn't based on what I know. If we look at a paper from the Economic Assessment Council that controls our economic policy line, they say that this policy, what the government is doing, in this regard is nothing more than a political policy, it is not based on any research. It even points out that tax increases could be partly better than spending cuts. This is from what we've been studying. If we were to think, if you ask me, I would prefer to raise a little tax rather than cut back on education and innovation, for example, which will affect our future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u259	Mr President! The opposition's criticism throughout the whole debate has focused most on income distribution issues. They are important, but there must also be income to distribute. All economic well-being is based on work and entrepreneurship — that is, all economic well-being is based on work and entrepreneurship. Therefore, government policy aims to improve the conditions for work and entrepreneurship, to create more work and entrepreneurship. There will also be more revenue that can be distributed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u260	Mr President! Of course, improving employment is extremely important, and that is why the opposition has also criticised this government's tax line for the fact that, from the point of view of the impact on employment, it would have been best to focus on increasing the purchasing power of low-income people. But Mr Hoskonen is quite wrong that there are no other means of combating inequality. Decisions on basic security directly affect the development of inequality, and that is what you are now cutting down, and tax solutions for those on good income also affect the development of inequality. This is also about how the government distributes the money that is in this budget. You take money from low-income people, you cut basic security, labour market support, national pensions, child benefit, home care support, and you give money in the form of tax reductions to high-income entrepreneurs, to the energy-intensive industry and to those people who receive large inheritances and gifts. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u261	Mr President! With regard to this debate, I would now like to make it clear that the SDP's budget option for this year was a zero increase in tax rates, and this is clearly clear that this debate is not worth continuing. Then I would also like to say that the SDP has done more than any party here on the government's side or anywhere else to take initiatives to strengthen exports, to strengthen domestic markets and to support businesses. Mr President! I don't want to make any more of this conversation. I have now asked the Prime Minister's assessment several times,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u262	Prime Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u263	Mr President! So, Mr Rinne, you would not be in agreement with the social partners if tax reductions were not given if in your alternative budget it was zero.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u266	The debate on the Prime Minister's section ends here. Let's move on to the section of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u267	Mr President! So here we are dealing with the issue of local government finances for central government and then also the issue of experimentation and digitalisation. First of all, the municipal economy. In view of the combined effect of state measures, local government finances will be strengthened by EUR 39 million next year. Next year, therefore, will be the second consecutive year when the local government finances can be strengthened by the State. With regard to Mr Kiky, I would like to say briefly that, of course, as has already been pointed out here on two days, the central objective of Kiki is to increase economic growth and improve employment, and thus also to be able to benefit from increased tax revenues in the form of local government finances. And I will continue to say in this debate on the budget debate that if we had a government perspective in the spending limits procedure, in the spending limits debate, that the local government economy will not be able to cope with the career at which it is now, then we will be prepared to look at it, particularly with regard to this grievances and then next year's budget. That is what we are going to do. Mr President! First of all, these state transfers to municipalities. For the provision of basic services next year, central government shares will amount to approximately EUR 8.5 billion, which is in fact more than half of the total budget of the Ministry of Finance, and next year the central government share will be 25.23. The performance includes several cost-neutral items between municipalities and the state, such as the reduction of central government shares by EUR 330 million in the Kela transfer of basic income. The central government share is also reduced by the cut of EUR 50 million that was decided during the last Government term and by the savings on index-linked expenditure. On the other hand, the level of the appropriation will be raised, for example, by the development of family and family care, which will guarantee family carers the right to three days off per month, as well as by the development of home services for the elderly and veterans. Within the system of central government transfers EUR 10 million to sub-island municipalities to compensate for the costs of insularity, and the municipalities receiving the increase seem to be exactly 40. After all, this was removed during the last parliamentary term. The draft budget includes more separate articles from both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to prepare for social and regional reform. We are going to act in such a way that, in the supplementary draft budget, these appropriations are brought together in a single item in order to secure funding for the smooth and effective implementation of the reform. As far as central government is concerned, savings decisions on general operating expenditure included in the Government Programme will also be taken forward next year and this will mean a cut of EUR 30 million next year. There will also be a 0.5% productivity cut of EUR 20 million next year, and Kiki will also have a negative impact on the operational budget. Mr President! As far as digitalisation is concerned, the national service architecture, which has already been put in motion during the last parliamentary term and which has now been speedily carried forward here in Parliament, will move forward next year, so to speak, as it was until next year. We have a budget of EUR 27.5 million for the accession aid for its completion and deployment phase. In addition, next year we will be implementing these digital tip projects. All in all, we had 100 million in reserve and three quarters of it is currently tied up. The national income register, the electronic share register and the digital services of informal care shall serve as examples. Then, Mr President, quite briefly, this pilot activity and this basic income experiment, which is perhaps the most important experiment in the government programme, which requires major legislative work and a challenging one, as we know. I would like to say here that the basic income test will start at the beginning of next year with this random sample of 2000 people for the unemployed in Kela, but the government intends to extend this experiment further in 2018, and we will be taking decisions on it now in November, when this working group has submitted its own report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u268	Now, I would ask those representatives who wish to use the debate in this context to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u269	Mr President! The basic income experiment is a very good thing, because our fragmented social security system needs reform, and progress towards basic income is the right way to go, and it is good that the great idea of historic reform is being tried out. Unfortunately, the experiment seems to be somewhat incomplete when it does not involve students or self-employed persons, for example, and where there is no regional experiment that would reveal the dynamic and regional economic effects of the basic income. Now the Minister said that the experiment will be expanded later, and this is very good news. I would now like to ask the Minister whether there will be a further extension of the experiment to other groups of people, such as students or self-employed persons, or whether there will be a regional experiment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u270	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of the section. Now, for the second year in a row, local government finances are developing positively, with EUR 39 million being added to central government shares. We must remember that during the previous government period the cuts amounted to a total of EUR 1500 million. The work of municipalities is changing as a result of the regional and social reform. The tasks of the province will include regional development and zoning and local economic policy. Do you see, then, how the provinces and municipalities can now agree to draw the line between them, that it does not happen that the municipalities are subordinate to the regions in the pursuit of economic policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u271	Mr President! The government decided to exclude the subjective right of early childhood education from the children of the unemployed, among other things, while at the same time deciding to increase the group sizes of day care. The government has also spoken of the need to leave room for decision-making at local level, and now there is uncertainty as to what will happen: is the government now going to punish those municipalities and cities that do not intend to limit day care to the unemployed or refuse to reduce the quality of day care? Are they now being punished by taking the state shares out of these municipalities? It would be important to have this information. Now we are always familiar with the conditions and we are also aware of how, for example, the city of Helsinki has a large number of families with immigrant backgrounds, unemployed families, and we are doing short-term and shredded work here, and it has also been considered important that the possibility of early childhood education is a subjective right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u272	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his active work on digital projects. One important thing is indeed this Incomes Register and to get it in order to combine social security and labour income and genuinely make a truly significant basic account and not a basic income solution on that side. However, it seems that before that, we will have to spend some time in such old structures, and it seems that if you work a little, then you will lose all your social and unemployment benefits. One proposal that has come up would be, in a certain way, some kind of tax card for the unemployed, from which you know that at least 50% of the result would in fact always be net for yourself every day. Should we find a model that would serve a little like this income register model in advance and not wait until 2019?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u273	Mr President! Local government finances are strong and you can see that when you look at central government finances and local government finances. However, the municipalities are able to do things on the plus side, and I believe that the municipal decision-makers have taken responsibility for this and have earned their congratulations. There was such a strange episode in this competitiveness pact that I would now like to ensure from the ministers that this will be properly evaluated, because there were millions of them, that was 189 million and then minus 90 million, which are going to be a burden for the municipalities after this competitiveness pact's plus and minus exercise. Now that the problem is also that they are targeting municipalities in a very different way, how can it be ensured that, on the basis of the minus million million to the competitiveness pact, the jobs of any municipal worker are not at risk? There's already messages coming out of this. The second question then: how do you think the municipalities will make huge tax increases over the next two years, because there will be restrictions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u274	Mr President! By the time of the regional reform and the new municipality, it is great that the government has been able to strengthen the local government economy in this tense economy. A constantly changing operating environment will bring enough challenges otherwise. Now, with the newly reformed municipal law, the obligation to cover deficits of municipalities and municipal groups must be real, and the plan alone is no longer sufficient. What, then, about the deficits of joint municipal authorities, the municipal groups that are now going to be demolished, the hospital districts and the provincial governments? Are they in the same situation as the municipal groups with regard to the obligation to cover deficits?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u275	Mr President! A few questions about the municipalities. Many growing urban regions in practice run the Finnish economy and are concerned about how the growing urban regions will secure their place in the forthcoming municipal and regional government reform. I would like to ask the Minister when we have news for the urban regions on this issue. The second question relates to the digitisation projects that you have been actively taking forward. From the point of view of central government, reforms are promising, but I am a little concerned about how we can involve the municipalities in the reform projects that also concern them. I am referring here to the fact that in many municipalities, when faced with economic difficulties, such projects relating to digitalisation are often perceived as extra or, as it were, additional or additional expenditure. I have learned from experience that when municipalities decide on their budgets, questions relating to digitalisation and information management, for example, are often left in second basket. How do we change this direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u276	Mr President! Now that there will be a provincial self-government in this country and we will move on to a system which I believe is quite common in Europe, how, Minister, is it enough just to recommend how many so-called councilmen will be left in the municipality, or should there be a law on this, because quite an obvious number of tasks will be left out of the municipality, 50 %, 60 %, depending on the municipality?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u277	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, in the context of these budgetary debates, we always had constant concerns about the way in which the municipalities in general are going to manage, because the cuts in central government shares were quite drastic. Looking back now, I must agree with Mr Paatero's comment that the municipalities should be congratulated, but above all thank them for having managed to manage their municipalities and local government finances in accordance with good staff policy. All in all, the municipalities must be commended for this. It is now positive that, during this parliamentary term, the financial position of the municipalities will be improved, moving for the better. Overall, the draft budget strengthens local government finances slightly. But, of course, this competitiveness pact has little question marks. Next year it may weaken the local government finances somewhat, but at least I am able to believe that in the long run it will be strengthened by economic growth
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u278	Mr President! I would also take the effects of this kiky, now a little cornered from my own municipality of residence in Rovaniemi. The Council met on Monday and it became clear that we have a budget of EUR 5.6 million in frost, and these compensations have already been taken into account. So you can say that spending cuts are coming all over the place and yet it was promised that it would have been cost-neutral. As Mr Paatero said earlier, there are huge differences in this area on a municipal level, and I am now making a little effort to achieve this cost neutrality here. And then there's the other thing: When we come to this provincial self-government, I have a little concern about how to ensure that these self-governing councillors have genuine decision-making power and not just seeming. However, when money comes from the state in the early stages and goes mainly to statutory tasks, how is it ensured that there is no democratic deficit?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u279	Mr President! I would have gone to the rescue sector. At present, in connection with the regional reform, the rescue service will belong to the provinces. At present, however, there are co-operation areas for the organisation of social welfare and health services in the country, for which it is considered that in the same way in five regions rescue services should also be organised. However, the regions have good experience of organising an independent rescue service and have a clear financial responsibility. What do you think should be the division of tasks between the five areas of cooperation and then the province? Should not 18 provinces have that responsibility for organising this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u280	Mr President! Indeed, for municipalities, the time of change and the years of change are progressing. Many municipalities are already preparing for the future and reforming their organisations, their administrations, and then the spring elections will certainly be one such threshold. Perhaps this autumn there will not be any increases in municipal tax, but the future will have to be prepared for, and then, at some point, these freezes, if any, will come. I would like to ask the Minister: Is this preparation of the municipalities premature now? Should we still have ice in the hat or should we think about the future? On the other hand, I would like to hear a little more about this experimental culture. We have now heard about this basic income experiment, but what else is going on has somehow gone a little dark.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u281	Mr President! A total of EUR 100 million has actually been earmarked for the Government’s digitalisation of public services between 2016 and 2018, and important projects are already under way. Thank you for setting up the national income register, the electronic housing register and the work on developing the digital service of self-care. One key factor that will enable us to increase efficiency, increase patient safety and bring about savings that are not out of treatment is the harmonisation of social welfare and health information systems envisaged in the context of the social welfare reform. Minister, do you have anything to tell us about how this work on the reform of the information system has begun?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u282	Mr President! The government has promised that the municipal finances will be put in order. Unfortunately, however, bad cuts are being carried out by municipalities. Municipalities are directed towards weakening services through cuts in central government shares. This is done at least in the area of early childhood education and care for the elderly, by reducing state contributions, for example, by reducing the number of carers. There have been suggestions that municipalities should be forced, for example, to increase customer charges, i.e. to deprive municipalities of the possibility of not putting down the handicaps. What does the Minister think of this? I would also like to ask what will happen to local government finances if empty social housing remains a burden on local government finances. Have medicines and models been considered for this yet, how can the plight of local government finances be eased? I would also like to hear some answers to the way in which municipalities are going to be encouraged in the future to promote health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u283	Mr President! I should like to thank the government for this historic reform of the region. Well, that's very historic. The provinces will be given their own decision-making power over the development of their territory, the organisation of services. It is very much in line with European practice. I would like to ask the Minister how this reform is progressing in the various regions now, given that there are some messages that some of the central cities have at least been rather clammy about moving this reform forward. By this I do not mean my own province, where Oulu has been a very active and positive driver of development. We should also thank the government for the fact that the very strong deterioration of local government finances has now become a change of direction. Thank you for that. This debt problem will no longer be passed on to the municipalities, which has been the line of the past years. In this respect, the situation in the municipalities is easier. Of course, we face challenges in municipalities: strengthening vitality and finding new jobs, and thus strengthening livelihoods there too in the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u284	Mr President! I too would like to thank the government for the fact that the local government economy is not seriously affected, especially when compared to the previous one. Now that we are doing this major regional reform, the reform of regional government and the reform of social services, the municipalities are faced with very big changes and a whole range of changes are really going to happen. The municipal law will certainly be amended in this package and many administrative reforms will also have to be carried out in the municipalities. I believe that administrative rules will have to be neglected in municipalities and many other similar reforms will have to be carried out. The municipalities will certainly survive these, but there are many kinds of support that are needed. I would like to ask the Minister how the municipalities in this process of change are supported and provided with the legal support they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u285	Before the Minister's speech, I will give the floor to Mr Paatero, Mr Kankaanniemi, Mr Laukkanen, Mr Mäkelä, Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u286	Mr President! It is true that there are so many points in this municipal economy, and one of these, which the entire Administrative Committee, and the Social Democrats, have been concerned about, is the municipal compensation for those who have been granted a residence permit. We have two questions. The second is that only minor increases have been made from the level of the 1990s, that base is too low, and then the second is that we still have a system in which, depending on the reason for having become a quota refugee or an asylum seeker, the number of years is different. Is there an increase in the level planned for this and then a similar increase in the number of years? That is why this is particularly important, because at the moment there are still thousands and thousands of them in short supply. Many municipalities are now faced with the situation of being recorded by the Ministry of Justice's recommendation in the municipality where the reception centre may be located. That's where the municipalities get into pretty bad situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u287	Mr President! According to objective calculations by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, this budget as a whole will strengthen the local government finances by around EUR 40 million. It is quite historic in view of the last parliamentary term, when the central government shares of the municipalities were cut very strongly in the last three years. In the last parliamentary term, municipalities owed around EUR 7 billion, i.e. the debt burden was transferred from the state to municipalities where they were then managed on an equal basis. At the same time, it led to the hard work of local government staff, the negotiations were held, the tax percentages rose and the services weakened. This is no longer the case because of government measures, and for that I thank the government very much. As far as local government finances are concerned, for example, the pension solution means that pension contributions will fall next year and make the finances of municipalities easier. Here too, the situation is getting better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u288	Mr President! It is estimated that this social welfare administration reform would cost municipalities some EUR 150 million in the Uusimaa region as losses of central government and various other contributions, and of course a large share of this would come to Espoo. I am thinking now that, with this burden of payment coming to the large cities here and there, a great deal of insidiousness has now begun to emerge with regard to the whole reform, would there be such a place for negotiation here, now that the cities of the metropolitan area are preparing this special legislation for such a thing to be done together? Secondly, as this municipal discretion is now increasing, it will inevitably lead to a significant cut in services, especially in smaller and less well-off municipalities, and this inequality mentioned by Mrs Kankaanniemi will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u289	Mr President! Indeed, thanks to the Government for the fact that this social and regional reform has moved forward smoothly and sharply, and, on the other hand, for the fact that this 1.6 million people, Uusimaa, has received its own attention here, because Finland, of course, is a little different from each other. After all, the government has asked the capital region for its own separate solution, and this is currently under consideration. However, I am a little concerned when this opinion time, which is 10 weeks, is almost three weeks away. How much longer are we going to have to wait for this issue in the capital region? Is there any information about it yet?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u290	Mr President! The Helsinki Metropolitan Area has more than one million inhabitants, and there is a very dense network of social and health care services and services have been developed very strongly by the cities. As part of this social welfare reform, the government entrusted the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area with the task that, if they found a common solution, it might then be considered, and now the municipalities of the capital state have made this proposal for their own separate solution and are looking forward to an answer now. I would now like to ask, as has already been said in a number of speeches, when this will be resolved and what will be the end result now or whether we are going to simply wipe the table with this motion. This should be answered soon, because this law on organisation is already in the consultation and in the municipalities. In these cities in particular, we are now considering what will be the answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u291	And now, Minister, five minutes. So many speeches have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u292	Mr President! Firstly, this regional and social reform. Indeed, as has been pointed out here, it has already been on the table for three weeks now, and the consultation will take place on 9 November. days, i.e. 10 weeks. I myself will abstain in this situation when the consultation is taking place, that I should take new lines on what the government has now proposed. With regard to this issue of the capital region, I would like to say briefly that we are currently carrying out the evaluation work, both at official level and also at political level, and that we need a solution very soon. Now to these other questions. Finally, as regards Mr Sarkkinen's basic income: It is intended to look at how it will be extended in November when this working group of researchers submits its own final report, i.e. whether it will be extended, in what way, whether or not there will be a regional experiment. But from the beginning of next year we will start with this sample of 2000 unemployed people. Then there are a few other questions. The representative, Mrs Hautala, asked about these province-municipalities issues that what is happening in it, what is the division of labour. I note that the E-mission in the provinces, which is now in the Ely Centres, is being spoken about in the regions, but then there are the clear three - at least three - hard Ks in the municipalities, that is development, education and then planning, and industrial policy and that the municipalities will have this general sector, which I consider to be good. That's where we'll find the differences. But it is quite clear that the regions and municipalities must cooperate well with each other. That it's both of these organizations. For Mrs Hatainen, will the government punish her by somehow targeting separate sentences: this is a whole new idea for me. At least I have not heard that this is how it is going to be. Then for Mr Jaskar about this national income register: yes, it is a huge exercise, there are so many people involved, there is the Tax Administration, there is Kela and many others, and this means that we have to do it properly and carefully that it is available to us in 2019. Then there were questions about what will happen to local government jobs in the future. I say that local government finances are a whole and, as you know, when a municipal economic programme is being carried out, it is in KUTHANEK, that is, the joint view of municipal representatives, the Association of Local Government and various ministries. That it's the whole thing. But it evaluates state measures, not municipal measures. Of course, what the municipalities themselves judge if there is a need to adapt — the municipalities are self-determination, self-government, and use the means they have in general. Do municipalities raise taxes in two years? I do not believe that any municipality will raise taxes in vain. If we look at our municipal tax rates, then in each one they are so high that I do not believe that such an increase is. Then deficits in joint municipal boards. Well, the municipal law requires that joint municipal boards also cover their own deficits. And it cannot be thought that joint municipal boards would then enter these regions in deficit in 2019, but must be implemented. Well, then it came up when we asked about these other experiments that what is more than this basic income. In fact, there are a great many of them: there is a great deal of experimentation on the part of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Then, for example, there is one experiment that unites many of the key projects like a digital experiment that includes not only learners but also distributors, and it is just now this week starting this kind of start-up event. There is also a service voucher experiment and a huge number of experiments in many different areas overall. The question was then asked about the size of municipal councils. This is, of course, up to the decision of the municipality itself. We have the Municipal Act and also the draft Regional Law, which sets out a minimum number based on the population. But the municipality itself decides on the size of its own council overall. Then the Paatero question on municipal compensation and these levels. Of course these issues have been discussed within the government, that is quite clear. But at this point we have not gone to lift them. This may have been a little more on display early in the year than it is right now. This is what I feel like from that municipal court. Then, finally, when Mr Taljak asked about this salvation, I will say what I started with, that is, when this reform is now in the consultation, we must ensure that we receive a lot of genuine statements, and after the consultation it is the government's place to re-orient, if you think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, if there are still grounds or desires for a few speeches, they will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u294	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: when this social welfare reform is going well and the regional reform is going well, what will happen to the buildings in the future, which will not be used in this social welfare reform? Will they remain the responsibility of the municipalities? Are they going to be taken over by the province? Who's in charge of their debts? Is there yet a clear plan for such matters that might then be presented in those municipalities as an idea?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u295	Mr President! It was very good to hear that this national electronic income register is progressing. Unfortunately, we have given a great deal of headway to the rival countries. I would have asked about this electronic reporting of company data to the authorities. There is no need to work so hard, because all this definition work has been done. All we need is a decision to introduce these definitions and make them binding. The current hand-held game is in a situation where we have the most recent national accounts for 2013, which is ready. Gross domestic product in 2014 is also preliminary data. So is this electronic reporting of company data becoming more rapid?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u296	Mr President! I'd like to ask the minister what's going on with the duality. Of course, that solution, which was needed for a long time, especially in the cottages, would facilitate and increase tax revenue as the burden on public services increases. Why hasn't that project progressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u297	Mr President! Since I did not receive an answer recently, I would like to repeat the question. The impact of these rebates, holiday allowance cuts and the extension of working time and the resulting savings on tax revenues in different municipalities is considerable. However, the government of the country promised that Kiky would be cost-neutral for municipalities, i.e. the state would compensate the municipalities for the effects of the agreement. I am very much in favour of a contractual society, but the precondition for such an agreement is trust. In this context, I would like to ask whether the word of the government can be trusted in this context. Then there is much to be said about what is left to be decided in those self-government areas, or will we have a democratic deficit there?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u298	Mr President! In 2012, the Audit Committee dealt extensively and extensively with the problems of moisture and mould in buildings. I believe that many of us, who are also municipal decision-makers, are also struggling with these problem properties in the municipal economy. In other words, we cannot afford to make anyone sick, children or staff, in schools with indoor air problems or in day-care centres. I should like to ask you, Minister, whether you are and whether the government has intended to do something about this. So are these grants available to municipalities so that they can better renovate or build these home and moisture-damaged properties? Is there an improvement in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u299	Mr President! There was a question here about the size of the councils. I thought about it. That's quite a multidimensional question, there are at least two aspects: first of all, our democratic perspective is definitely in favour of a bigger council, but then the strategic management aspect of this kind of thing is a smaller council. In any case, it is influenced by a great many aspects: the role of the municipality and the change in tasks, the availability of candidates, the burden of council work, the voice of different groups in this council work. But what I would like at least is that when the municipalities decide now and the municipalities themselves decide, as the Minister said, the size of this council would be discussed not only in figures about the size of this council, but at the same time in terms of the role of the council as a whole, the change in the operating environment and their impact on this council work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u300	Mr President! This issue of democracy is, of course, interesting and important and I would like to see a real, real decision-making power in the provincial administration to be achieved, that is to say by the elected council. That's not enough. In other words, there would be a right to tax and a more independent decision-making power over tasks, and the State would have less control. But that's what's coming now, and we'll see what happens. In the past, I said that the overall budget will strengthen the local government finances by EUR 40 million. However, Kiky will have a negative impact on EUR 90 million next year and it should be cost-neutral. How will this be taken into account now, or can it be believed that as working time increases, wage costs will decrease,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u301	Mr President! With regard to that decision in the capital region, I would like to ask whether, when the time comes, we are now going to discuss these details further and whether it has been considered that we should give an extension, a period of consultation to the municipalities in this region. After all, it is very difficult to leave positions before this whole thing is clear. Then I would like to ask you another question, about reducing the duties and obligations of municipalities. How's it going?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u302	Mr President! Minister, I appreciate that you have left the future social package and the regional reform out of your assessment, but nevertheless I ask you: What is your own assessment of the economic potential of the remaining municipalities and future regions? At the moment, we have been able to read various calculations in the regional reform package on how municipalities should be doing, how much remains for the foundation and how much tax it will then give to the province. What is your own assessment of how correct these estimates are, calculations because municipalities use a very different share of their own income then for social and health care services? And how should it possibly be reevaluated at a later stage?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u303	Mr President! First of all, to this deficit of joint municipal authorities: Isn't it the case that they move with their deficits to that future province? In less than two years there is hardly any possibility of covering all those deficits unless you sell all the central hospitals away to an outsider. Or maybe I got this all wrong somehow. Because of this logic, if I were mayor, I would quickly increase taxation, because it is the vitality that will remain in the tax revenue when the municipality is no longer allowed to increase. After all, the 12.3 now being withdrawn from everyone in the same way, regardless of the starting point of the municipality, it is for that reason prepared. So I understand very well if mayors do this sort of thing while corporate taxes leave. And this municipal law, to which these changes in the size of the council, the number of committees, etc. relate, is very difficult to take a stand in the municipalities at the moment, when it is not known what happens when there is a war and how many committees should be if there is a war. That is why I have to answer this repeatedly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u304	Mr President! We heard in the tax section of the Committee on Finance that, in view of all the government's actions, including the Kiki agreement, I believe that the pass will remain fairly direct and even a little green light will remain that effect will remain moderately neutral. But has the government taken into account the future loss of tax revenue that what will happen to the municipal economy in the future? Secondly, how has the government taken into account the differences between municipalities? In some municipalities this means a negative situation, in some municipalities the pass stays live, and in some municipalities a little green light is also visible in it. How have you assessed this whole in the light of the different situations in different municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u305	I will give the floor to Mr Honkonen, Mr Laukkanen and Mr Eestilä, and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u306	Mr President! The representative, Mrs Hautala, raised the issue of the division of labour between municipalities and future regions in economic policy, and it is really great that the Minister here said that there is a clear limit to this. It has even been said that municipalities will be vitality municipalities. In other words, the municipalities are still responsible for these so-called 'hands in clay' tasks, business promotion services in the SME field, where I think the best know-how in the municipalities lives — and so on. However, it is important that these new regions continue to have these existing development and regional development services for the Ely Centres, and that they maintain a close partnership between the provinces and municipalities. I would like to ask the Minister: how will we ensure that this partnership between the regions and the municipalities is established and that it is used to produce better welfare in those regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u307	Mr President! I would like to add to this debate that, when this reform takes place, In the region of Uusimaa, that means that 67,000 workers would be transferred to this new company, and then there is this multi-billion-dollar asset, so is there already some kind of map exercise about how this is actually done in practice, because there is undoubtedly such a small spirit of disbelief in this area, how such a major reform will only succeed if there are some instructions to make such cuts and such measures. However, it is quite a company: 67,000 people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u308	And Mr. Eestilä, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u309	Mr President! When we carry out these administrative reforms and organisational reforms, at least my own view is that, in the end, their success is quite strong on the people, and especially on the people who lead this change. We know that, in the business world, managers are relatively easily exchanged if it seems that there is no result or no result, or if there is another reason why people should be changed. Have you, Minister, discussed in the government how, in this way, people can be exchanged on the public side without losing face in order to get the right people to the right places to always take changes and also established activities forward? In fact, I have experienced that this is like this sort of permanent problem that may lead to the staff suffering and a little bit of all suffering when things don't work out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u310	Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u311	Mr President! Unfortunately, I don't have time for everyone to answer again, but I'll try my best. [The first Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : I shall put it in 4 (Laughter)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u314	The debate on the section of the VM in this context will end and move on to the list of speakers. At 3 p.m., the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications will begin. Before that, let's move on to the list of speakers. This is the first time I have spoken to Mr Vehkaperä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u315	Mr President! The beginning of the week has already been the subject of a debate on the budget, and it must be said that the situation in Finland may not be as gloomy as this Parliament gives evidence of it. So there are signs of improvement and there is light at the end of the tunnel, but one of the things that is important to this issue is that economic growth in Finland will only come about if we get more and are able to create more jobs. Jobs are created not so much on the public side, but on the private side and more in the business world. It is important that we continue to be able to agree on the rules of employment and employment. The best thing about a competitiveness pact is that, on a tripartite basis, we are able to think about how to develop working life in line with today's work and so that the government is also involved in this, among other things, with tax reductions that affect those who work, but also with regard to the taxation of pensioners. This cooperation must also go on from this point of view. Earlier today, Parliament has already been talking about budgets for more than one administrative sector. I'll take a few of them. In the budget sector of the Ministry of Justice, it has been considered important that we also have to prepare in Finland for an increase in the cost of immigration. Preparations will amount to EUR 19 million next year and the money must definitely be directed towards speeding up the processing of asylum applications. It is humane, both in terms of family reunification and so on, and it is also economically important that these asylum applications are processed in a humane time. Minister of Justice Lindström also spoke today about an increase in the operating budget of the Criminal Sanctions Agency — EUR 3.7 million for next year — and the current prison network will continue. But I am extremely concerned, as the debate on the debate revealed, that Pelso Prison in Vaala has been waiting for ten years for renovation. If and when the Minister's word is now to be trusted, as I personally believe, the project, Pelso Prison, is in a hurry and that project is being rushed, then I would also like to believe it. It is hoped that Pelso Prison will continue to remain regional, so that prison care will continue to be well managed on the whole of Finland. It also secures important jobs in that area. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture, there was a heated debate in this Chamber a few hours ago about the savings and reform of secondary education. However, the picture is that the previous government was neither able nor able to reform or decide on the savings in secondary education. The pace is different now. We have also had to cut on the vocational training side. This is gonna hurt. I myself am involved in the decision-making of vocational education and training in my own region. This has meant, and will mean, negotiations next year, more efficient use of facilities and equipment, which, of course, is a sensible solution, but also the combination and cooperation of youth and adult education, which is also a good thing. Savings bring pain to the providers of education, but the goal is important: that vocational education and training should be reformed once and for all here and now. That is why this reform will now be carried out in very close cooperation with the providers of vocational education and training, who will be closely involved in building a new structure of qualifications, new content of qualifications, and also intensifying the organisation of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u316	The general debate on the budget will be suspended and the section debate will move to the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u317	Mr President! The Government proposes approximately EUR 3.2 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. A total of around EUR 1.3 billion and EUR 434 million are proposed for investments next year, of which EUR 300 million for projects previously launched, EUR 107 million for life-cycle financing projects and service charges for graduates and EUR 27 million for four new investments. Overall, the Government Programme has stated that a total of EUR 600 million will be allocated to halt and reduce the growth of the correction debt during the Government term. EUR 100 million has been allocated for this purpose in 2016, EUR 200 million for 2017 and EUR 300 million for 2018. In addition, the transfer of a total of 364 million from the funding earmarked for non-designated projects in 2017-2019 to basic bus maintenance results in a large amount of correction debt. The share in 2017 is EUR 104 million. It is also proposed to start new investments on highway 4, Oulu-Kemi, mandate 125 million; vt 5, Mikkeli-Juva, mandate 121 million; vt 12, Lahti Southern Ring Road, 198 million; Improvement of the Luumäki-Imatra-Russian border line, mandate of EUR 165 million. Further planning of the Helsinki-Turku high-speed rail link will also be launched. Vehicle tax will be extended to boats and motor vehicles. An additional EUR 1 million will be allocated to this expenditure for the Finnish Transport Safety Agency. A total of EUR 9.1 million will be allocated to the promotion of road safety. Support funds for transport will remain at the current level of the year, which will ensure the maintenance of services at the current level. EUR 84 million will be allocated to the purchase and development of public transport services. A little over EUR 30 million has been earmarked for rail transport purchases. This appropriation is intended to cover the payment of expenditure on long-distance transport between the State and VR-Group Ltd and the four-year contract for local transport outside the Helsinki Region Transport Group. A total of EUR 101.4 million will be allocated to improve the competitiveness of maritime vessels. The aid will also be extended to sea-measurement vessels. An appropriation of EUR 1 million will be allocated for the extension of the aid. Communication appropriations include EUR 519 million in the draft budget for 2017. It should also be noted that the revenue generated by the administrative sector on the revenue side is EUR 40.7 million, of which almost EUR 34 million is revenue from the auctioning of spectrum. Most of the communication appropriations, EUR 507.9 million, are transferred from the budget to the State Television and Radio Fund to cover the public service costs of YLE. In view of the general economic situation, no index increase will be made to the appropriation for next year. The Government's proposal to amend the State Television and Radio Funds Act on this subject has been presented in the same context as the draft budget. EUR 140000 is allocated to FICORA’s operational expenditure to ensure the resources of the observation and alert services, known as Havaro activities. An additional amount of EUR 240000 will be available for the operation in 2017. In addition, an increase of 1 million will be allocated to the Finnish Meteorological Institute to compensate for investments in the weather radar network. The compensation investment of one weather radar will cost approximately EUR 1 million. The renewal of the High Power Calculator will also be initiated. EUR 2 million for 2017 and EUR 2 million for 2018. Here, Mr President, is a summary of what has been presented to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for next year's budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u318	I would now ask those Members who wish to speak in this section to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u319	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a thorough presentation. First of all, I would also like to thank you very much for the EUR 3 billion investment programme which has begun to be implemented. It has already been seen throughout the country, bringing work and vitality to many regions. In addition, fixed and wireless telecommunications will develop, and I would like to ask you: how are these operators now involved in this cooperation, because it is not only the state that should be involved, but the operators involved? There will probably also be a lot of rail traffic during this government period, and we have so-called silent rail links. In the constituency of Vaasa, the Suupohja railway is one of those that needs renovation. Is it possible that the opening-up of competition would make better use of such so-called silent rail links in the future, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u320	Mr President! The absolute first line of action for this period is that attention should be paid to basic bus maintenance, and that is something to be commended on this point as well. However, it must be noted that now that projects, development, are transferred to basic infrastructure management, the world must evolve and the world will evolve. With this in mind, I would like to highlight the planning of this hour's track between Turku and Helsinki. As far as I am concerned, although the hour is a good thing, it is a little reactionary at this point. Let us not look at the alternatives of these faster, more recent techniques, that is, moving forward in old time, with old technology. Is there any way to plan a proper connection with the hyperloop shuttle technology, which can then lead to the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u321	Mr President! We must first thank the government for the fact that this repair debt, EUR 600 million, has come and it is visible in the provinces and in the canals around Finland. Of course, the bad news is that this EUR 100 million will now be transferred to 2018 and will, of course, hamper future investment and the rise in the bioeconomy. I would have asked when I was called today by the former long-standing representative of the city centre, Lauri Oinonen, and he was once again concerned about the future of the Seinäjoki-Haapamäki-Jyväskylä track.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u322	Mr President! I agree with these thanks to the Minister for the draft budget. As far as I am concerned, I also welcome the whole, and it is particularly gratifying that new projects have been brought in during this period of economic rigour, large projects, vt 4, 5 and 12 and, of course, this. Luomäki-Lappeenranta—Imatra-Russian border double-track project. In this regard, I would like to ask: now that a new, wide railway line is drawn all the way to the border, would it be time to talk to a neighbouring country about officially opening this railway border crossing point so that regular traffic can operate there without special arrangements? If I were to say something to be developed about this layout of the budget book, then the general expenditure of the administration and industry seems quite large in the eye of an occasional observer, 485 million, but it is mostly alvia. Perhaps it would be wise to put this in another way so that there will be no wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u323	Mr President! In this context, it is good to remember that communication is also being discussed, although transport does take more attention and the biggest money. In a digitalising world, the critical cybersecurity level has proven to be weak in Finland. Unfortunately, the draft budget makes it impossible to assess the adequacy of the resources of the Cybersecurity Centre of FICORA. It is symbolic that the centre is so small that its budget has not been available on the pages of this thin booklet. After all, the whole EUR 140000 has been budgeted for the welfare and warning service. My question is this: do you consider the FICORA budget of nearly half a million dollars to be sufficient to secure, among other things, the Finnish information networks in a world where various cyber attacks are already commonplace?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u324	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the parliamentary repair debt working group stated that we must now have enough of our repair debt on roads, ports and railways. There's 2.5 billion euros worth of work to be done. This parliamentary term has responded to the call, which means that in the coming years almost EUR 1 billion will go into transport and, as has been said, you have already been paved and these projects have been employed. This is a good thing, but there is always something to fix, and that is why we must be able to invest in the infrastructure that we have here in the next parliamentary term. This means that perhaps new projects starting them will have to be slowed down a little, but this debt of correction will have to be managed almost entirely. It is our bioeconomy, employment, operating environments and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u325	Mr President! I recently read a study carried out by the Chamber of Commerce asking about different criteria for business, which are important, especially if companies want to seek growth. And one of the priorities was precisely that we have functional air traffic connections to different regions in Finland and that we also operate train connections. I am particularly concerned about air traffic in my own region. Minister, you have visited our localities and you know that we have a very export-driven industry there that is entirely dependent on functional air transport connections. I would like to ask: how do you see the future of this Kokkola-Pietarsaari airport from your point of view?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u326	Mr President! After many years, almost decades of debt recovery, it is very positive that now Minister Berner has tackled this problem in the government and is now being funded. Of course, it is important that it should continue in the coming years and not be just one short-term, because this debt is large and there is some irreversible damage or at least a development which, when corrected, will cost more and more. Mr President! With regard to these major projects, I would like to ask what is the possibility of a basic improvement of the Kirri-Tikkakoski road north of Jyväskylä. It is the European road and Äänekoski's new project is extremely important. Transport is huge and heavy, safety problems are huge. Unfortunately, this is not the case here, but it should be put to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u327	Mr President! It must be said at the outset that I am very pleased that highway 8, i.e. the Oulu-Kemi interval, is receiving funding, which means that this region's top project is now also one of the government's top projects. That's great. And also thanks for the fact that we share the same objective that we certainly all want to develop transport as a service more smoothly and take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation. But we have to go back to yesterday, that is to say, this traffic curve and the fact that we are now giving up the price and quantity regulation of taxi permits. I would have asked the Minister: is there any way of assessing these regional effects, i.e. will the price tag for expensive taxi rides be paid by municipalities and customers in a sparsely populated area, where this market-based competition is certainly not going to happen just as it is here in the capital region? On the other hand, I would also have asked the Minister when the feedback came from VR's train timetables: how to make them more sensible for it to be
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u328	Mr President! We must thank the Committee on Transport and Communications, which has been working during the last parliamentary term, which started this task force on debt corrections. Then it has been realised that money was then put into this foundation. I personally would like to thank the government in particular for the balanced allocation of highway 45, highway 12 and then the Luumäki-Imatra-Russian border link, that there were large projects all over Finland with a combined package price of more than 600 million. But perhaps there is some reason to criticise the tax policy pursued in Finland. It is about continuing to increase taxation on motor vehicles, and this is not the first time that the state has come to the driver's purse. When, in Eastern Finland and Northern Finland in particular, your car is a substitute for public transport, I do not think it is fair or fair that it is constantly being raised. This is for the minister to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u329	Mr President! It is also reasonable for me to begin with thanks, particularly in connection with this region's top project, Luumäki-Imatra twin track. However, this transport cut of EUR 100 million from 2017 to 2018 is strange. You, as a government, are cutting yourself off, and you, as it were, are acting in violation of the decision on the spending limits, which means that you have already withdrawn the decisions taken, and I do not think that this is a planned budget. The traffic arch was published yesterday, and this was preceded by a long, spring-long negotiation with the government, and we have certainly wondered why you did not negotiate until you left this. It is now a matter of concern that the availability of taxis can change, especially during quiet hours of the day and in city spending limits. That is why I ask: can the law be written in a form that allows for unjustified pricing and adverse market conditions for public authorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u330	Mr President! During this term of government, a very big change has been made in Finland in order to set up transport routes, i.e. roads and railways, here in Finland. In order to prevent and improve the condition of our basic routes, an investment programme of around EUR 3 billion has already been decided on in the past. It brings work and better-fitting roads to the whole of Finland. Next year, there will be a significant amount of basic bus maintenance. It's a fact. And it is also significant that an annual level increase of EUR 10 million will be made for the maintenance and improvement of private roads for 2017-2019. Thank you to the Minister for Transport for the launch of the four new investment projects decided in the spending limits debate. The fact is, however, that there will be no major investment projects through normal budget funding in the future, and it is therefore important that the establishment of Transport Network Ltd should also be examined as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u331	Mr President! Effective transport connections are a prerequisite for sustainable growth, as we know. The government has made one of the key projects to halt the country's road repair debt, which is an extremely good thing. As a Member of Parliament, I am particularly pleased with the financing of the southern pass by highway 12 in Lahti. They've been working on it for years. During the last parliamentary term, it moved on a little bit, and now a financing solution was found for it. I asked you, Mr Berner, in the previous budget debates, if you would like to have access to history books as a minister who will finish this 70th-century project. Congratulations, you've done it. And, Minister, I would have asked: do you see that the financing model for this road project would be something that other regions could also use? In this case, Lahti and Hollola contributed to this financing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u332	Mr President! I should also like to thank the government for making a genuine contribution to this road repair debt. But I am also very surprised that this 100 million is now being transferred from 2017 to 2018. In this particular situation of unemployment, should not we not invest not only in infrastructure but also give the opportunity to work in different regions as much as possible? As far as VR is concerned, VR has indeed submitted a 3 year contract for purchasing and obligation traffic in many areas and routes after the end of this current agreement. On this point, I wonder to the Minister: Why are there still wonders about this agreement? Why is it so difficult to conclude a purchase and obligation transport contract with VR? This information on the follow-up is awaited not only by the regions but also by the users of the service and, of course, by the train drivers and staff on a large scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u333	Mr President! It seems that investment decisions have been very good when praise comes from the edge of Finland. This means, of course, keeping Finland moving and the wheels rolling, which is very good for everything. I also welcome this increase in basic infrastructure management appropriations, which has clearly been a very important issue. I would also like to say that about yesterday's news, about the traffic cycle, and I would like to thank the Minister for the courage the government has now found to take a step into the future. The transport sector now needs the flexibility it needs and a small country needs. With this reform, Finland will now remain involved in the development of services and technology. The important thing was that everyone will now have the same rules of play and that the sector will not be attracted to the shadow economy in the future. Personally, I would have drawn attention to this scrapping premium, which unfortunately did not come out of it. Would it be possible to look at it again?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u334	I will give one more round of speeches to the various groups and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u335	Mr President! I would also have drawn attention to this correction debt and asked the Minister what has happened to this project, which was called Infra Oy, which was intended to cover that repair debt more quickly. What is the situation at the moment with such a separate balance sheet unit, which would be cheap and able to produce work at this very moment and improve it? Is it completely buried, or is it still on the list?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u336	Mr President! Raising basic infrastructure maintenance and repair debt is an important issue, and for that, the Minister is very grateful that these projects and investments are moving strongly across Finland now. Finland needs to maintain routes both on the railways and on the roads. I would also like to draw attention to the progress made in this area of broadband. Is it ensured that this broadband project goes all over Finland? Yesterday's news about the traffic arch project was positive, and I think that the most important thing about the traffic arch is that we bring in Transport Network Oy, or Infra Oy, whatever it is now called Finland. I therefore hope to hear what timetable the Minister estimates that this Infra Oy project will start or at least be prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u337	Mr President! I would like to highlight this aspect of communication and the basic service that is important to the public, namely the postal service. I would like to ask the Minister what you intend to do to ensure adequate and affordable postal services for citizens. As far as I am concerned, letter mail should continue to be distributed five days a week and the distribution of newspapers guaranteed, for example, that the newspaper should be defined as a universal service product and that the financing of distribution should be carried out jointly between distribution companies without the support of taxpayers. Does the Minister agree with that? These distribution disruptions, which have been going on for a couple of years throughout the country, are mainly due to the fact that the number of Posti employees is too low compared to the workload. It would be quite simple to put things right, but Posti has not wanted to do so, and there has not yet been an official who would make this matter right. I hope that the Minister will be firmly involved in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u338	Before the minister, representatives Elomaa, Karimäki and Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u339	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister: Varsinais-Suomi receives funding that can be welcomed. The roads get good funding. Taxi traffic remains subject to authorisation, as Mr Jalonen has also strongly pointed out, and that is a great thing. So, Minister, can we now count on a taxi to travel in rural areas, reliable taxis to continue to travel, and the job will be done?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u340	Mr President! Last March, when commuting in eastern Uusimaa stopped, it caused enormous inconvenience to the everyday lives of many families, commuting, school transport, everyday travel. After all, some of those trips have now been restored, with the support of municipalities and HSL, but the bottleneck is that when there is only one rather ill track on the coast track, the trains do not seem to fit on the track, and therefore there are eight to four suitable train shifts such as those offered to the Siuntians, and it would be very important to have additional capacity on the coast track. I would like to ask: are there plans for a double track to the beach track, or at least bypass tracks, in order to accommodate additional trains?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u341	And again, Mr Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u342	Mr President! First of all, I would like to add my thanks to the fact that the traffic cycle has finally been reached, and of course, to the Minister. It will certainly create work and activity in Finland in the future, and unnecessary regulation will continue to be necessary. Secondly, I would like to raise what Mr Kankaanniemi said earlier, the Kirri-Tikkakoski gap, and that is what the Minister has given an interview in our regional paper stating that the decision will be taken in 2018. Is this information still ticklish? In fact, the third question would be when, here on page 555 of the budget book, it is said that the conditions for media renewal have already been created. For example, the digital alvi is still 24 years old, and I would like to know if this is a tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u343	Now there were quite a few speeches. I'll give you five minutes to the minister. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u344	Mr President! I will quickly try to answer these questions. Operators have committed to investing EUR 1 billion in fixed broadband over the next eight years, and it is true that we are precisely trying to ensure that operators have a good chance of investing. Along the Turku hour track, we will see what Hyperloop really means and how new technology can be applied. We are basically open to new technologies here. As far as purchasing and compulsory transport is concerned, we have conducted a wide-ranging consultation involving the provinces, municipalities, but also bus and coach transport, taxi transport and other operators. Our aim was precisely to involve all parties in the debate in order to target feed traffic and timetables as well as possible. This package has now been put together. In addition to this, we have calculated how much work-related and study-related travel we have seen, how much leisure-related and cultural and tourism-related travel. Then we have looked at how much are the costs per connection, and then how much is the money. In fact, this has created a major proposal these days, which will be going through with VR this week, and we are committed to VR getting these decisions and proposals for decisions from us in September so that they can reach the timetables. I sincerely hope that a well thought-out, calculated, studied and clarified solution will be found which will serve all parties as well as possible, improve the contact points, but also ensure that the taxpayer's euro is as well-valued as possible. I hope that we will be able to present this solution these days. In addition, it was a question of opening up the railway border crossing point. This is the debate we are having, Mr Kopra, now also with the neighbouring country, but it is not always as fast as it would like. As far as Havaro is concerned, I am grateful that, in support of cybersecurity, the Finnish Communications Agency has at least received a very small budget, which we have been discussing for the second year to promote whether there should be more — certainly — and whether we should also consider what kind of position we would like to develop — of course — and this is certainly something that will continue to be on our agenda. With regard to the airport of Kokkola-Pietarsaari, we do not currently have any debate on the airport network to consider the situation of individual airports for the airport network. We are currently making a broad vision by Esko Ahon, Lauri Lyly and Inka Mero of what kind of infrastructure we are going to have for 2030-2050, and one part of that whole is certainly also the promise of how Finland can be achieved both inside and outside the country. I very much hope for this clarification. The idea of the Jyväskylä-Tikkakoski road connection is maintained, i.e. the decision in 2018 will be taken together at the same time as Infra Oy's investigation is progressing. The report on the Transport Network Oy or Infra Oy concept should be ready by the end of this year, and the idea is to see if the Transport Network can be further developed as part of the balance sheet structure by next year's 2017 framework. As far as the traffic cycle is concerned, we have the idea that if competition is opened up, if there are challenges in terms of pricing, then within the legislation there is a clause which allows Trafi to intervene in pricing, but not in the way that the Government decides on the price, but Trafi will then be given the right to participate in this whole. The financing model, in which municipalities participate in the future development of Infraa, is part of this Transport Network Survey, and we will also consider how future cooperation with the regions will consider, on the one hand, our infrastructure planning and needs and, on the other hand, the way in which future funding will be provided. As far as the postal sector is concerned, we now have the end of the consultation and, over the next few weeks, we will have the task of considering what kind of proposal we can make, which will specifically safeguard services. Hopefully, we can make a bill that will be based on how the services will start, and then think about how Posti Oy will work in the future. This is still open, but hopefully it will come to Parliament by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u345	Let's keep this debut going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u346	Mr President! I am very pleased that the so-called hour train project is now receiving planning money in the budget. I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for finally making progress on this project, which has been important and useful to Western New Zealand, Western Finland and Finland as a whole, which has been in the water for decades. Thank you for that. Secondly, I have to say that, in the course of the Sipilä Government, and especially in the past year, I have missed more opportunities in Uusimaa than I have done in my custom. However, these unfortunate delays in themselves are very often due to a positive issue, which means that already this year the streets, roads and bridges have also been repaired at a fierce pace in Uusimaa. The repair debt of the fairway has been filled in so many corners of Uusimaa that almost every walk of speech will be hit [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Now, Your Honour, for his late speech. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u349	Mr President! Some EUR 7 billion are collected from transport each year, and it is good that now, under the leadership of Minister Berner, this pot will provide for the first time a substantial amount of money for this repair debt, so that we can tighten our road network. I would like to thank you for that Southern Ring Road in Lahti and also for fast rail connections, but I hope that they do not always mean that trains will not be able to stop in Hämeenlinna and Riihimäki, for example. That's where the passengers would come in. How, Minister, in the traffic cycle, which is good in itself, will this duty of on-call duty be taken care of, so that in rural areas, taxis can also be obtained on quiet nights? And lastly, the problem is that we have amateurs who are also motorcyclists, and there does not seem to be a mechanism for this tax to stop its tax. I wish there was more of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u350	Mr President! Actually, two things. The first one was this VR. There has been talk of this purchase and obligation transport agreement, and it happened quite unexpectedly that VR then suddenly cancelled this information, and did I understand right now that it was cancelled precisely because they wanted to look at these other modes of transport together? If that was the case, I will stay and ask why it was never publicized as to why this was withdrawn. It would be good to be clear about this, because it is important that these chain of command are visible to Parliament: when will what happen here, for example, on the corporate governance side, and who used ownership control here? The second thing, this correction debt, as it were, is next year's cut, which is, of course, this move: of course, the question is that if it is now piled up at the end of the day, then start saying that when a lot of jobs are piled up in the same years, the price is higher and there is a risk that this is not just a transfer but that it will become a genuine cut. Finally, when the Minister of Finance flashed further cuts yesterday, can you say here that no matter what happens,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u351	Mr President! I, too, would like to congratulate the Minister of Transport on bringing the traffic curve to the finish line. It has been a long process and it has been given a great deal of weight in the implementation of the government's employment objectives, among other things. It will certainly revolutionise the Finnish transport field quite a bit and create new services where, unfortunately, they have been eradicated all along. The big question, however, is how to achieve a wide range of regions in a wide country. If you look at the growth rates of Northern Finland in tourism, for example, they have been extremely wild, up to 20% and more, but the accessibility of air transport is not at all at the level it should be. A ticket to New York is as expensive as that ticket to Ivalo, and this cannot, of course, make sense. I would also like to ask what we are going to do about this price for air tickets, but also about the Arctic rail link. What kind of discussion is taking place with neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u352	Mr President! It is a very good job for the Minister of Transport to do this and next year. However, I would have asked for such longer-term plans. Now we talk a lot about clean transport zones, we talk a lot about connecting transport and services, electric cars, the like. However, I am sure that the Minister of Transport and Communications will also have plans for these sectors, because we could perhaps change the culture and practices of the whole of transport, perhaps to be a pilot country in the world and in Europe, because we have good smart grids and models like this, the structure, the platforms are in order. Now we need different service concepts, which I am sure the Ministry of Transport and Communications will want to promote.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u353	Mr President! Finland lives on exports, and Finland is on an island. Our export industry has to pay a considerable amount of port and fairway charges, and this is detrimental to our exports. I understand that in other Nordic countries the amounts of similar payments are very different. Is there any scope for a review in the longer term of how we could deal with these export-disadvantaged charges and thus promote outflows of domestic products?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a few Members who have not spoken in the first place in this debate. I will give these speeches, then I will give the floor to the Minister, and then we will go through more of those rounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u355	Mr President! Of course, the year that has taken place for rail transport has been confusing in many ways, and it is very common for many citizens, and it is very difficult for them to travel to work, because it is difficult for them to do so. In the background, the government presented its budget in the autumn of last year and said that it would cut EUR 12.8 million in purchasing traffic. Well, what happened after that? After enormous pressure, the local authorities, MPs, municipal authorities, some of these closures were withdrawn — note, only until 10 December. Now the minister today said that in the next few days, a solution will be found as to what will happen on 10 December. post-marketing experience. The expectations, yes, Minister, rose to a very high level. In this regard, VR was informed some time ago that it was without any State aid increase, i.e. without any State aid increase,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u356	Mr President! This week, the economist at Danske Bank, Pasi Kuoppamäki, pointed out that it would be more courageous to invest in infrastructure and shorten this debt and to put you and the roads in order, because you can borrow for 50 years at an interest rate of as much as 50% and the time span for these performances is quite long, up to 35 to 50 years. What do you think of this? Don't you think it's a good idea to grab on to this? Then I will also bring up that air transport, because in the north it is a real bottleneck. We have had a lot of investment by tourism companies and there would be many visitors, but there are not enough flights. In other words, this already harms the regional economy, industry, industry and tourism, and an increase of 10 per cent in air transport will increase GDP by 0.5 per cent. Finnair has also outsourced these flights to Norra Oy, and it cannot be that the flu wave cancels these flights. So people have been really pissed off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u357	Mr Filatov and Mr Heikkinen, then the Minister will speak, and then we will continue for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u358	Mr President! I have to say to the Minister that Häme is not usually nervous, but now it is nervous, and it has to do with these VR solutions. We have held local negotiations to get some of those VR shifts back. These are mainly shifts between Riihimäki and Lahti, which serve students and people working in particular, and the Helsinki-Hämeenlinna-Tampere connections are about working and, for example, whether or not to work in Tampere in the morning. And as the government strives for more people to move after work, I really hope that this will be appreciated rather than just the eight to four jobs. Today, people’s working hours vary, and part-time jobs, for example, take place from Hämeenlinna in the surrounding municipalities, as well as from Riihimäki and Lahti. And in order for this to be possible, so you can't think so that you take between the bus and between the train, because it doesn't work
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u359	Mr President! Indeed, there is much improvement on the roads, as has already been demonstrated by the speeches made in this Chamber today: there are indications, whether in the government or in the opposition, that something is actually happening to our road network. But my question actually concerns these new projects, and the Minister said in his speech that it is intended to intensify and develop the coordination of state and regional government in the field of new road projects. I think that we in North Savo have achieved an excellent result in the idea of looking at this from the point of view of heavy traffic, basic production and people, this whole route from those small roads to the big roads will be taken into account when looking at new road projects and improvements. The idea remains that the regions most know what improvements are needed, so that they will continue to be supported,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u360	And now to the Minister, four minutes from the floor. After that, we will continue for a while, and Mr Paatero and Mr Tolppanen will be among the first to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u361	Mr President! It is true that EUR 100 million has been transferred from 17 to 18, but there will be no real damage from this transfer: work will be well started both in 17 and 18, and I believe that we will also be able to keep this work steady all the time. We have a huge number of projects that have already been launched and are on the move, and it is also currently visible from the perspective of the infrastructure companies. The Arctic is an issue that has also been covered in this transport network survey, and I would also like to remind you that former Prime Minister Paavo Lipponen is currently conducting a study from the point of view of the north-east cable, and here we are also discussing with neighbouring countries what common interests we share in the Arctic region of the infrastructure. With regard to this train traffic, our objective is now to find a sustainable solution that will be able to reconcile work, study, feed traffic, the money available for purchasing and compulsory transport, and which will also genuinely increase the number of passengers travelling by train. This has required a great many studies and studies, both with regions and VR and then within the Ministry. Our goal is to find an equation that would support the development of services as well as possible. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in this context, we are not talking about market-based transport, but only about the purchase and obligation transport and the related decision that will be taken in the next few days, because the decision has been agreed in the coming September. We are constantly developing intelligent transport. We have joint experiments going on both with Norway and then with the regions in the north. We also want to be a pioneer in truly intelligent transport, creating opportunities for new services there. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Finland is likely to commit itself to very significant emission reductions, most of which are directed outside emissions trading, and this requires us to reform the transport system. This also requires reforms relating to alternative propulsion, including tax issues, and then we also need to invest in alternative biofuels. This will be a proposal to Parliament in the context of the national energy and climate strategy this year. With regard to air traffic, I would be happy to pass on this feedback to Finnair about these flu waves and other things. This is a matter that belongs to the owner-control system, and then, hopefully, there will be an issue and your message will also be passed on. The previous paragraph failed to answer how taxis will be available in rural areas. I believe that, when we make it possible by digitalisation to create platforms where service and supply can meet, but also when transport can be more modally combined with goods, people and postal services, it will also enable us to genuinely ensure that services in rural areas are improved, and we will also provide entrepreneurs with genuine opportunities to create services that they support in rural and sparsely populated areas. That is my answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u362	We still have 10 minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u363	Mr President! This 100 million sounds a little like some of the other government decisions that have been decided and subsequently withdrawn. In other words, it is not unusual, but it is unfortunate with regard to these projects, of course. The question that came to my e-mail was that when the boat tax comes, does it also affect ships of the sea rescue associations, because it will, of course, entail additional costs on that side. The second question is that, when we have these very important ports for export, can we at some point think about prioritising the infrastructure of these ports in comparison with all 60 ports? Of course, in the region, the 15 has been on the list, and hopefully the Kotka-Kouvola interval will progress. And lastly, this common thinking, air transport, road and rail transport, perhaps even ships: last season we began to make a major study of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u364	Mr President! First of all, I am extremely concerned that objective information should also be made available to sparsely populated areas. If we do not guarantee that Posti will also distribute newspapers five days a week, that means that there will also be no newspapers in sparsely populated areas five days a week, and today, however, it is still the most extensive way to obtain information. Unfortunately, in rural areas, Internet connections are still poor at times, and in addition to that, not everyone still has the Internet and does not know how to use it. It would be very important to guarantee this access to information. The other thing is this train thing. The train is currently drilling between Vaasa and Seinäjoki through Laihia, Isokyrö and Ylitaro without stopping. That means about 10 minutes of savings in that time. However, all these localities are two cities,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u365	Well, now we're pretty careful in this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u366	Mr President! Representative Ojala-Niemelä brought up Finnair, and there is probably a pilot shortage behind it. In this respect, I would like to highlight the importance of Aviation College. Let's keep an eye out for the playing field, shall we? Another state-owned company, which came up, of course, is VR. When we look at the traffic curve, its deepest essence is the EarthS, and then there is this opening of the interfaces, which is essential to it. After all, let us encourage the state-owned company to open up these interfaces in advance, that this MaaS is really moving forward and that we are at the top of the world. I must say that I too have received feedback on the motorcycling and boat tax. It must be done with care that it comes in a fair manner. And I'll have to mention this one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u367	Mr President! The construction of transport infrastructure is an investment and investment in the future, and now that these major basic improvement projects are being carried out, regional funding is also partly involved. We are pleased with the result of the basic funding of the Oulu-Kemi interval, in which EUR 125 million comes from the state, but the municipalities in the region also put EUR 30 million in funding for this. Obviously, these projects will also be carried out in the future in such a way that municipalities and regions are partly involved and the state will then, of course, be involved in it with a bigger pot. Is it true that these MAL or MALPE agreements, land use, housing and transport agreements are to be continued, with which it is precisely in these large urban areas that infrastructure funding can be considered for housing, transport and services where the entities are:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u368	Mr President! The key objective of the much-speaked round of transport is to make new, intelligent services possible, both by streamlining regulation and by opening up information on the transport market. However, these objectives are often contradictory. Passenger and freight companies may not voluntarily agree to open their information, business secrets for the use of their competitors. My question is: is the government also prepared, if necessary, to increase the regulation of transport services in this regard, to order the opening of data reserves if necessary? Yes, and how does the traffic cycle take into account the fast-moving automation of freight and passenger traffic so that the whole traffic cycle does not need to be completely rewritten next season?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u369	Mr President! First of all, do you think the future tax will apply to museum motorcycles, museum mopeds and perhaps museum snowmobiles? This is the kind of question I was asked. I myself replied not to touch, but better that the Minister responds. The second question is about the pricing of our air tickets. After all, we all know that it is easier and cheaper to fly abroad than it is to travel abroad, and now the EU is calling on Finavia to harmonise the air fares charged at domestic airports, which means that the prices of air tickets are again rising. Is this requirement reasonable? If we have a certain level of expense at an airport, how can the EU require more than what the right level of expense is?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u370	Mr President! This car scrapping premium was a good idea, and it had a good purpose, and it was used a lot. But now I'm glad it didn't go on. In my opinion, even cars are bought without scrapping premiums — those who can afford a new car. Now, in this scrapping premium system, a cheap car was bought, an additional $1,500 discount was obtained on that new car, and those cheap cars were taken away from those who really needed them. There are a lot of summer workers, those who need a car for work, but the scrapping fee then scrapped the cars that these poor people needed. There goes the thought. I didn't like it. It's a good thing they haven't taken this in this year. I would also like to thank the Minister, as a representative of the Gulf, for this progress on the southern Lahti circuit road. This has been expected for a long time and I am glad that it has now passed during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u371	Now for the last speech to the Minister, two minutes from his own chosen place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u372	Mr President! Quick answers to questions that remain open: With regard to the scrapping premium: the Ministry of Transport and Communications has in itself been prepared to promote it, but it has also been in the preparation of the Ministry of Finance. I think I have not answered Digialv: we are waiting for a reply from the Commission on this point and hopefully we will have it on the other side of this year. I would like to emphasise once again that the same projects will be carried out in respect of the correction debt, even though 100 million of them have been carried over to the next year. Representative Plant, there are in fact sections in the traffic cycle that oblige all operators within the traffic cycle to open their interfaces with regard to routes, stopping points and prices, certainly not with regard to customer information. This is the one that makes it possible to create uniform tickets and travel chains and also that we genuinely receive services that are door-to-door and enable fully digital solutions to be created. At the same time, the traffic cycle also takes into account the future possibilities of automation and robotisation, so that there are no obstacles — as far as we know — that would prevent the introduction of new technologies. From this point of view, the traffic cycle has been a very exceptional lead law. I hope we have also been able to take all this into account. In addition to this, for Finavia, the payment practices related to landings are something that the company is currently working on with the EU, and we will see how it will be in the end. However, it is clear that we want to see national room for manoeuvre on this issue. — Thank you for these feedbacks and lunches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u373	Thank you. — The main category of the Ministry of Transport and Communications has now been discussed. Now we move to the main category of the Ministry of Agriculture, and there is Minister Tiilikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u374	Mr President! A total of EUR 2.5 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. There is a reduction of 14 million compared to the current year's budget. The revenue accumulation estimate for the administrative sector in 2017 is 886 million, with a decrease of 84 million compared to the current year's estimate due to a reduction in EU subsidies. After all, the vast majority of these appropriations in the administrative sector are allocated to agriculture and food, 72%, and 13% to rural development, which is, overall, 85% here in the area of agricultural policy, and that is very natural, because all these agricultural subsidies fall within this category. The share of natural resource economy in the main category of expenditure is close on 8 per cent, that of land measurement and data reserves is 2 per cent, that of Metsähallitus less than 5 per cent and that of administration and research less than 5 per cent. Here's a rough split. Of course, the primary objective in rural development is to exploit the potential of rural areas and to increase vitality. When Finland is being put in shape and wants more jobs, more business activity and more growth, of course, the basis of the bioeconomy is actually resting wherever renewable resources are growing. And the sustainable mobilisation of these resources is, of course, this rural development. In the agriculture and food sector, the net budget is reduced by just under EUR 25 million. This is because this timetable for the payment of subsidies can now be normalized. In other words, when the government decided on the crisis package for agriculture in its budget, one part of it was to bring forward the payment of subsidies, which will be able to account for the aid originally planned for next year on this side of the year. That is why this change is taking place. Overall, the spending limits debate decided on an agricultural crisis package of some 50 million. Next year's budget will show an increase of EUR 10 million in national aid, particularly targeted at farms that have invested, for the survival of farmers, EUR 10 million in relief activities, which will be used, among other things, to reduce farmers' payments. Earlier in the spring, decisions were taken in connection with the previous spending limits decision to increase national support for agriculture and horticulture by just under EUR 7 million and natural handicap compensation by around EUR 20 million compared to the spending limits level, i.e. to cancel previous austerity measures. They are now reflected in the budget for next year as increases. The implementation of the ‘Bio-economic and clean solutions’ strategic priority is also visible: i.e. the capitalisation of the Agricultural Development Fund, 38 million next year, 11 million in the current year — a very substantial increase. Similarly, the aim of the increase in the trade balance is to have separately earmarked funds for measures to promote exports and the use of domestic food. Natural resource management — fisheries, hunting, forestry and water, general natural resources. There are a lot of issues relating to the sustainable use of natural resources, which are not major budgetary issues, but also on this side of the budget will increase slightly due to the increase in the funding of the bioeconomy and clean solutions projects. In terms of land measurement and data reserves, the budget is reduced by just under 3 million. This is due to an increase in savings as well as an increase in land arrangements in practice. The real estate and off-road information system contributes to securing the foundations of private land ownership and the national guarantee system, but it is very important that this side remains functional and fit. The competitiveness pact, which will reduce wage expenditure in society, is reflected in savings of around EUR 5 million here in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. — — — — Here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u375	Like this. Then let's go to the debat. I'll ask the representatives to report to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u376	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of the section. We are all aware of the difficult economic situation in agriculture and thank the government for the crisis package that you have put in place. It will be distributed both through the amending budget for this year and next year. It is necessary, and the size of the 50 million actually surprised us a little bit. And when you add the EUR 20 million that comes through the possibility of entrepreneurship reduction, this can be considered reasonable. The truth is, however, that this is a temporary measure — we must also seek other solutions. Solutions need to be sought in the EU specifically to restrict production, and then domestic measures will be consumer solutions in shops, maintaining the quality of domestic food, extending origin labelling to processed products, functioning of the market and dismantling of red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u377	Madam President! Indeed, you can agree with these thanks for this crisis package, it will be necessary and it will be of great help to the debtors. But in this context I would like to raise the issue of the EUR 1.4 million additional money for Mavi, the Rural Office, when, in our constituency, there is a public opinion from the Government Party delegation that this is completely unnecessary money, it should not be in the budget at all. First of all, it is scandalous that this is being told. Could the Minister, from that box, now tell us the Members of Parliament and the Minutes where this EUR 1.4 million is needed? We in the committee know that it is going to reform the information systems, because these subsidies have been delayed precisely because these information systems have not been in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u378	Mr President! When each Member State can decide for itself to declare the country of origin of food packaging, I ask the Minister: are we going to make maximum progress here, and will the EU impose some kind of restrictions on whether or not this country of origin can then be declared on food packaging? After all, we have animal welfare standards at a high level: we have a few antibiotics, we have a pig to keep his pig and his chicken beak, as we all know. Can these, as it were, be used for advertising purposes without our being guilty of excessive protectionism? The second question, Minister, relates to the transport of animals, which have once again gone to the wallpaper. Why is this local slaughter without transport not allowed in Finland when it is allowed and even used as an example in another Member State, such as Germany?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u379	Mr President! I'll pick up where Mr. Eestilä left off. The rural section visited Kuopio and Iisalm during the summer, and the key message to us decision-makers was that although we are all in the same EU, which is why the same rules are interpreted in such different ways: why In Germany, for example, grazing is possible; in Finland it is not. In other words, the pure question that Mr Estilä raised: is there something to be done about Finnish rural areas, about rural enterprise, not being regulated to death in vain? Let us give it the opportunity to make a viable effort and interpret them in the same way as, for example, in Germany.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u380	Mr President! During this summer, much has been discussed about animal welfare, and it is also a topic which falls within the administrative sphere of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The Government's merit list in this theme is not very flattering: the office of the Animal Protection Ombudsman has been suspended, the regulation on fur has been suspended, and Parliament is still waiting for the full reform of the Animal Protection Act to be brought to the attention of this Chamber. How do you, Minister? Tiilikainen, would you describe the government's will to move animal welfare forward and improve animal welfare? Are you going to bring the reform of the Animal Protection Act to Parliament, what is its timetable? Are you going to take forward — apparently the issues in the steering group — the ban on asparagus during the transitional period and the abolition of investment subsidies for these new asparagus? Are you going to take forward the ban on sow breeding cages? Or what kind of animal welfare law are you going to bring to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u381	Mr President! The place to thank is that money has been given to the plight where it is needed. Of course, someone might maliciously say that when you have an artery wound, it will not be patched with a plaster. In other words, other means are needed than this money that is now in the budget. I would have asked the Minister how you in your own ministry have considered that the government programme has focused on the fact that the bioeconomy is a key project. However, even in this budget, Luke is now being cut from the sector where research and development are needed, that is to say, the new innovations. I'm sure in your answer you will bring the transfer to the Academy. But how can you instruct the Academy to really focus on this basic research when the projects currently under way do not support the government's programme of focusing on key projects in the bioeconomy at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u382	Mr President! The rural programme has set the objective of creating 5000 new jobs over the period 14 to 20 and of supporting the start-up, development and investment of 6000 enterprises and training of at least 20,000 people. Structural aid also aims at 9000 investments and almost 3000 supported generational exchanges. Minister, the support system for agriculture is complex and makes life very difficult for many rural entrepreneurs. Many entrepreneurs in the industry or those who intend to enter the industry are now wondering whether or not to take up the job. At this stage, we must also applaud the fact that the crisis package in the agricultural budget for this rural area includes EUR 1 million for the survival of farmers and EUR 10 million for the relief activities aimed at reducing farmers' payments. However, I would like to ask what has come up very often here: is there any relief in support jungles and reporting?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u383	Madam President! I too would first like to thank the Government and the Minister for the crisis package, which is really needed, and it is the answer to those who are in the most difficult situation now. There will also be a real need for the effort to cope, and for that, too, thank the Minister and the Government. But of course the crisis package will only solve short-term problems. In the long term, other measures should be found, and the government will at least try to do something there too, for example, improving procurement methods is a very good step, including the Food 2030 programme. But what worries me is a reduction in the budget for advisory organisations. More than 40% are taken out of it at the same time as, for example, it is written that it should be ensured that businesses and farmers are reasonably priced, professional and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u384	One last speech before the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u385	Mr President! Finland cannot afford to run down agriculture or to slow down the vitality of the countryside ever faster, as food does not grow on the shelves of the store. For these reasons, the KD took the initiative in June to table a mid-term issue. The MTK had called for crisis response from the government, and they estimated that the financing requirement was EUR 100 million. Well, the government has agreed in its budget line on a crisis package of EUR 50 million — thank you for that. But I would have asked how much of this aid will be paid this year and how much of it will be transferred to next year. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, as Mr Nylund has said, these advisory services will be cut by EUR 2.4 million, or 40% of the level of the current year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u386	Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes from the podium, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u387	Mr President! Thanks for the thanks. That crisis package came more than it needed, and I am, of course, glad that the government jointly understood the concerns of farmers. That's 50 million new dollars. In fact, in the context of the spending limits decisions, which are now reflected in next year's budget, a financial decision of EUR 34 million was already taken on the addition to the previous frameworks, and when all these benefits, such as those mentioned by Mrs Hautala, are added together, about EUR 100 million or just over half of the decisions have been taken. But just as many of you have said, this is a first aid measure, and this is how it is that the final relief from the problem of agricultural profitability can only come from the fact that producer prices are rising to such a level that the basic activity is profitable. It's all the a and o, which then solves the problems. Of course, this is where the whole food chain from producer to consumer can play its part, and this is also a challenge to the functioning of the food chain. Mr Nylund and Mr Östman asked about these agricultural advisory funds. It is true that they are scarce. On the other hand, fortunately, in the rural programme, we have this Guidance 2020 system, which provides advice to farmers on a specific pump each year, which is a very welcome addition to these meagre funding from the advisory organisation. Some picks I made, ladies and gentlemen, on questions. Some delegates, Eestilä and Hautala, mentioned the origin marking. The regulation is now introducing origin marking in processed meat and milk products. We do know a lot about the manufacturer where that product was manufactured, but what about the country of origin of the raw material? The consumer does not have that information, and it is now being offered to the consumer through these new labels of origin. France has notified a system of this kind with the Commission for a few years, and very similar is now being done by Finland, and the drafting of this regulation is well advanced. Otherwise, the question arose here of this complexity and bureaucracy of the support schemes. Things have been done, but there is a great deal to be done. For example, these questions linked to slaughter are certainly on the list of matters to be resolved there. As far as the Animal Protection Act is concerned, the timetable is such that by the end of this year the preparatory working group will complete its work, after which the bill will be submitted to the opinions, and from there it will be on the way to Parliament. Tuppurainen asked that what kind of presentation — a balanced presentation that takes animal welfare forward. Congressman Myllykoski asked about Luke's surgeries. Well, in history, without going any further, they are cuts made a long time ago, which unfortunately have not been reversed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u388	Then we'll continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u389	Mr President! Now, I would like to ask the Minister how you intend to take into account in the coming year what the grey seals are doing, above all in the Kvarken and fishermen. Fishermen there are currently suffering so much that the industry will die if there is no help from the government and the Ministry. As far as I am aware, the Minister knows this problem very well, but at least I did not find in the budget book that there would be a specific definition of any kind of money for this to be put right. It would not even need much, but it would guarantee the fishermen of Ostrobothnia and Kvarken a livelihood and bread in the coming year. That is an extremely important issue there. There the situation is that seals only eat the catch if there is no help to reduce the seal stock.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u390	Madam President! For my part, too, I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry for the crisis package. It is an extremely important signal in these harsh times for all agricultural producers. However, I call for a change in the way in which these criteria for the granting of crisis support are examined, so that the balance sheet of the holding as a whole is taken into account rather than the current turnover. In addition, actions are also derived as sustainable solutions to improve the profitability of domestic food production. I would like to hear what the situation of the minister and ministry is at the moment with regard to measures that are, above all, sustainable and that help producers to spend their own money to improve their own financial distress.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u391	Madam President! Agriculture is in an historic crisis and the aid package must be supported. It is quite a big target for livestock farms, but, in fact, agriculture is also in need of such restructuring that there is more vegetable protein, bull beans, including for human consumption. I would like to ask the Minister for action on this. I agree with the view that it is truly regrettable that advice and research have been cut, because it is exactly what is needed for structural, innovative change in agriculture. And I also rushed the Animal Protection Act. We are lagging behind the other Nordic countries in animal welfare issues. There is a need for a law that ensures better animal welfare, the possibility of moving, the behaviour of species.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u392	Mr President! As has been said here, Finnish agriculture is currently struggling with very large profitability problems, with economic distress. I would also like, for my part, to thank Minister Tiilika and the whole government for the plight of agriculture to alleviate the accumulated crisis package. It really is necessary, and I hope that it will be targeted most in order to alleviate the situation in distressed farms. But the crisis in agriculture will not make it easier until producer prices are brought to the right level, as the Minister has said here, and it is very good that the requirement for origin marking is now extended in meat and milk products. In this respect, the interest of the consumer and the producer is similar. Consumers want to buy domestic, high-quality products, and we need to make it more visible on the shelf which foods are domestic, high-quality products so that the consumer can then choose them. So I ask the Minister: is it now possible for us to move forward at EU level to extend the labelling of origin, including for cereal products?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u393	Mr President! Here, one after the other, we are witnessing how great it was to receive this EUR 50 million crisis package, but in fact, when we look the truth in the eye, it is just a Band-Aid. Much longer-term measures are needed to ensure the profitability of domestic food production and primary production. And indeed: aid policy is not the solution, but the only sustainable solution is to improve the profitability of agriculture on the market. The primary producer must receive a higher share of the market than is currently the case. That is the only answer when we actually look the truth in the eye. During the previous period, a Fair Trade Promotion Programme was launched under the leadership of Minister Ihalainen, which provided a basis for addressing the dominant position of an exceptionally concentrated trade in Finland. I ask you now, Minister Tiilikainen: what are you doing now to improve the position of the primary producer in this food chain? You were talking about the functioning of the food chain. What are the measures? What are you doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u394	Mr President! Yesterday, in this Chamber, under the leadership of the SDP, there were a list of professional groups whose income will not increase very much in the years to come. Congressman Tuppurainen, I think we forgot about the farmers. Many farmers have said that they would have had a zero contract, a zero solution for a couple of years, but when incomes have fallen by 20 to 25 %, that is a terrible situation. In other words, I hope that in the coming years these speeches, which will be used here, will also be realised by the fact that we are all concerned about the future of the Finnish food industry. Thank you to the government for giving an important signal, led by the Minister, that the government attaches importance to domestic food production and its chain. The Minister then asked the question of these predatory damage and stock-management hunting. It has been very important and it is to be hoped that it will continue, because it has been possible to control this major predator and its damage in a certain way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u395	Madam President! It is good that agricultural defenders are now also on the left side of the hall. It is already a question of security of supply, and thank you, Minister Tiilikainen, for having a crisis package in it now. And these designations of origin are also helping Finnish food production. I would also like to thank you for not opening up the law on conservation and also for strengthening the vitality of fish stocks. You were just about to open up the Kotka Highkoski fishing road, which is a great new fishing road. What progress will be made next year in the construction of these fisheries roads? I would also like to thank you for the fact that Finland 100 National Park next year: Finland turns 100 years old, can be opened in Hossa, Moilasenvaara and Julmaan-Olkky. It is a fine deed and an act that will also be enjoyed by future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u396	Mr President! This early stage of the food chain also includes, to the greatest extent, professional fishing and professional fishermen. We all want clean domestic fish on the plate, but in order for it to succeed, professional fishing in this country will continue to be necessary. It is well known that professional fishing is already in a very difficult situation, and now the crisis package for the fishing industry comes in the form of such a fisheries insurance cut. I would ask the Minister whether this plan is still on the table and what is the Minister's vision for the future of Finnish professional fishing in the light of this proposed cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u397	Mr President! Indeed, fishermen are concerned about their livelihoods. Fisheries insurance is the very last form of national support for fisheries, and its costs to the state have been around EUR 1 million in recent years, but this is now apparently halved. Consequently, fishermen will be compensated for the infringement of seals by fishing gear through this fishing insurance when they first pay their own premiums and own contributions. The central government compensation rate is 40 per cent. Low-income fishermen who earn less than EUR 10,000 a year will be left completely without compensation. You are apparently now abolishing the insurance aid for trawl fisheries and reducing the State's share of the compensation for the damage to the traps and boats. These cuts are so drastic that they threaten to overthrow the fisheries insurance companies and associations responsible for compensation. In this case, fishermen would not receive any compensation for storm damage or for the infringement of seals by fishing gears. You have as the government's top project the 'blue bioeconomy for growth', which also aims at the use of domestic fish and water resources and the promotion of exports. How, then, is this scrapping of fishermen's insurance cover in line with this objective?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u398	Madam President! For years we have heard mantras that wood must be moved. It is now worth thanking Minister Tiilika for your participation in this, among other things, through a reduction in forest gifts. We know that forest farms have been fragmented over the years in the context of inheritance divisions and urban owners have had no interest in the management of their farms. Now, however, this reduction in forest gifts enables the ownership structure of the farms to be rejuvenated, the size of the farms to grow and the entrepreneurial activity to be made possible, not to mention the fact that, when it is entrepreneurship-like, it can also be managed in a much more sustainable way. At least this is the illusion I've lived in. This is how we get the wood moving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u399	Madam President! That is exactly what I would like the Minister to see if it has been assessed whether it will work as it has been thought: to promote the movement of wood. It is quite clear — in my view — that the forest owners are now being placed in an unequal position. There are those who receive such a benefit through this gift tax, which makes it possible for them to sell in their forest even at a little lower price than there are market prices, because through that tax benefit they receive the same return as those who already own the forest. The government is now placing forest and landowners in unequal positions in the sales situation, and who will reap its benefits? Certainly the one who buys, because it is quite clear that where there are subsidies, then, as far as subsidies are concerned, someone will absorb the benefit of the aid. This will distort the market. It is to be assumed that it is possible to sell timber, forest timber, at an earlier stage and not to grow them into valuable timber, because such a benefit is available on the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u400	Madam President! That is right: when we make reforms, they sometimes come to the opinion of a representative or a citizen of the European Union with so-called disadvantages. But in this case, I dare say, with the experience of a forest professional, that when we try to create generational changes on the forestry side too, it will inevitably promote the use of forests, bring wood to the market. We currently have a situation in Finland where about 1.5 million hectares of first thinnings are waiting for their buyer and batterer and nurse. There will be about 50 million mots of fibrewood and an equivalent amount, another 50 million mots, of energy wood. If we do not make use of this opportunity ourselves, take those jobs out of the forest, then that will lead us to think again in this same Chamber in a year's time about how much money we are going to spend, for example, to deal with unemployment. It is better that we use our own possibilities than we talk about the winds and the heavens here. I am not referring to Mrs Myllykoski's speech, which was well-founded, but in other respects. Then we'll cry about the consequences. It is better to do what is possible and to leave that reflection to others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u401	One last speech before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u402	Mr President! It is good to hear that the country-of-origin labelling of meat and milk is moving forward. It would have been nice to have received support from the Ministry of Agriculture in Finland, led by the central minister at the time. But I actually asked to speak about the bioeconomy. The Finnish bioeconomy can succeed if it is sustainable and reputable. There's been reports today that Metsähallitus is chopping up the union squirrel forest with Suomussalm. You, Minister Tiilikainen, are directing Metsähallitus from both the environmental and the agricultural and forest sectors. What do you think about a government agency breaking the law? On the basis of this experience, what do you think about the functioning of the recent legislative amendment which removed the obligation for the Ely Centres to tell forest owners where the union squirrels are if even Metsähallitus is unable to cope with the legal obligations in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u403	Minister Tiilikainen's turn, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u404	Mr President! Just a few more words about the agricultural crisis package. Apart from this money that is being used for it, there are those liquidity loans guaranteed by the State and the facilitation of the payment schedule of the loans. Early payment is a very important issue for liquidity. In fact, during the budget debate, we had the courage to promise that 70 million rural aid and then 90 million direct income support, a total of 160 million, will be brought forward. Yesterday we were also able to tell you that half of the welfare compensation for animals can be accounted for on this side of the year instead of being extended until next spring. All these changes, however, require hard work on them and, indeed, that the money is moving in time. It is because, Mrs Wallin, Mavi also needs that extra money in order to be able to carry out these expenses. I just missed it. Let me just say a few words about fishing. Seal damage will be compensated. On how to prevent seal damage: in fact, there are more permits for dumping the grey seal than they have been able to be used, so it is now mainly there that we need to consider whether those hunting times are in place to reduce the number of animals that cause the damage. Otherwise, these concerns about fishing insurance and how the blue bioeconomy is progressing, we now have to note that at the same time we are about to switch to company-specific quotas next year. In the open sea, for example, trawlers will be aware of how much fishing they are allowed to fish, so that you do not have to compete with another fisherman and go out in bad weather to break those things in the open sea. In other words, this side will become savings, and it is also likely that fishing can be targeted in such a way that the value of the catch is higher and the costs are lower. Indeed, the vast majority of this saving in fishing insurance goes to that trawl side. Even the compensation for coastal fishing is somewhat cut — let's take those final percentages into account. Time runs, and there were a lot of questions. The wolf’s canopy hunting is to continue. It will certainly require a little further discussion in the direction of the Commission, and it must be done. This is the generation of forest farms that several representatives spoke about. In fact, Mr Hoskonen explained to the gym that the fact that the forest owners are getting younger brings more wood to the market, and that is what we are in demand. According to the latest data from the forest industry, the investments decided mean additional fellings of 11 million cubic metres. And to make sure that tree is on the market, it is a good thing that the forest owners can get younger. I do not believe in possible market failures of this kind, which Myllykoski considered possible, precisely in this situation, when the demand for wood is increasing in any case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u405	Do you want to do this another time?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u406	Mr President! First of all, this union chipmunk. It should also be possible to be flexible in terms of protection, i.e., if you think of the actual quantities of the union squirrel now, then I have at least understood in such a way that in practice it would require the removal of the union squirrel from strictly protected species. Secondly, on this reduction in forest gifts, which Mrs Myllykoski drew attention to. I myself believe that it will in practice increase entrepreneurship-like forestry and thus contribute to forestry. But then this agricultural profitability. Indeed, in the long run, profitability requires a better price for the market. The amendment to the competition law adopted last season was a good step in that direction, but it was not enough. So it is likely that further consideration will need to be given to amending the competition law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u407	Madam Speaker! I'll pick up what Korhonen decided. After all, the fact is that consumer purchasing behaviour determines how domestic food is doing on the market. But in order for consumers to be able to influence the production of domestic food through their purchasing decisions, they need to be better informed about what the price of food is. The increase in the number of own trade brands, i.e. so-called private label products, has also led to lower purchasing prices, and since Finland's grocery trade is dominated by two major players, development leads to an unhealthy competitive situation. Large operators are able to trample down producer prices by means of large production volumes. It cannot be right for the retailers to run food products at the expense of Finnish primary producers. What will you, as Minister, respond to this challenge?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u408	Mr President! Mr Östman is on the right track, but the central movements decide what Finland eats. At the same time, however, it has to be said that Finland is full of superfood, that Finland is full of potential for primary production. The problem remains that we have not been able to commercialise, internationalise and brand our good products. Why is this so? Why do others know how to do that? We cannot create the added value that we are discussing right now. Research, development, what is now being cut off, is also key to this. Finland needs brand Finland, less bulk Finland. So I ask you, Minister: how will you, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and Team Finland, make it possible for Finland to become high-quality brand products, from which the producers finally get the price they deserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u409	Madam President! First of all, a couple of thanks. Thank you very much for increasing the basic funding of the European Forest Institute (EFI) by one million. This is of enormous importance to the better understanding of Finnish forestry and forestry in Europe as well. Thank you for the crisis package. Now we will see to it that it is targeted as well as possible. But I would also like to thank Mr Skinner for his excellent speech. My question also relates to this same subject. A couple of weeks ago, the Ministry of Economic Affairs reported that in the regions of the future there was an increasing desire to support the promotion of exports, in other words, to decentralise the knowledge of export promotion in the regions. How do we ensure that agriculture, our clean food, our wonderful products and their producers also receive these services, and that this sector is indeed involved in this business, that the knowledge of exports and the cleanest food in our world meets and the promotion of exports?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u410	Madam President! The Minister noted that the investments decided need 10 million mills of wood. The planned investments and the investments they are making will require a total of 21 million mots. We have over 600,000 forest owners, and some of them do not take care of their forests — for a professor in Helsinki it is only a natural value and not an economic source. Could the Minister and the Government consider the possibility of leading forestry policy in the long term by forming a parliamentary working group that would look at a little longer in the long term, and that would enable the whole of Finland and Parliament to be involved in this work? The alternative is simply to increase imports if the domestic tree does not move.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u411	Mr President! Over the last two days, there has been talk of promoting exports and increasing exports. Minister Tiilikainen, you made an export promotion trip to China in the spring, and a week ago the delegation of the Committee on Finance made it possible to make a similar trip. We met with a lot of Chinese authorities and also politicians, and in those discussions we went through the route you opened with regard to the export of pork to China. In those discussions it became clear that the quality criteria and certifications of Finnish slaughterhouses may not yet be in line with them. I'm asking you now, Minister. Tiilikainen: What obstacles do you think are there at the moment to the fact that Finnish pork cannot be exported, or that what can we do to make it possible for the Chinese to buy pork produced in Finland in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u412	Mr President! Perhaps there is still reason to go back to this problematic situation for farmers and to have a little reflection on history, when at least my own view is that in the former Finland many industries formed a partnership that took care of others. At least one could imagine that producers, industry and trade form a sort of partnership, and I think it would be desirable to take care of the guy and not let go, because if domestic food production falls too much, then it is quite naive for trade to think that somehow food will be cheap in the future. Outside they are unlikely to come at a lower price, quite the contrary. Do we, Minister, have any way other than the way in which the law moves forward in such a way that this desire for food would now stop? It has been going on for a couple of years and yet farmers will be saved if every food package costs 20 cents more and there is 50 cents more minced meat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u413	Madam President! I would like to compromise Mrs Wallin in this idea of a parliamentary working group. I just heard that the Natural Resources Centre, Luke, is about to start a study called Metsä 150, which suggests that we should increase growth further. When it was one third of the present one hundred years ago and 50 years ago, Luke says it now grows 140 million cubic metres a year. The new target is 150 million cubic metres per year, and it requires — that is to say, sustainable development, if any — the whole of society and all groups involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u414	Madam President! We must agree with what Mr Nylund and Mrs Wallin have said: we need something national. But, Minister Tiilikainen, I very much hope, or I believe that with this forest gift tax, either of us will have to say that "You were firm, my brother, your faith, but did not know the places on the beach." I'll drill a little after the fallen milk. I would have liked, and I would have liked to give them the hope of making the next budget, that the government would suggest that the heirs should have the opportunity to be active — and perhaps even a small coercion — but if the estate decides to put the forest in the common forest, they would be given the tax treatment that is now being given here and that may be the cause of market disturbance, but we have 60,000 forest owners in Finland who do not know that they own the forest. So this is it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u415	Madam President! I was in China, too. Indeed, according to the Government Programme, we should balance the Finnish food balance by 500 million. That is a very important objective here, when we import so many different kinds of food. Three things will then be important: exports, exports, exports. And this pork is certainly one, and I agree with Mr Kalli's question whether it is a major power policy or why we are not getting an excellent product on the move. Also the Arctic brand as a whole — here I also refer to rye and oats, which are export products of the future: how do you see the potential of the Arctic brand as part of Team Finland’s work to get this export really moving?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u416	Mr President! On a very large scale, the bioeconomy, renewable energy, Finnish food too, this government is largely putting its hopes into thinking about where we can find new jobs in the whole country, how we can still maintain our livelihoods. This is a good objective and fully justified, but without education it will not be possible either. My question to the Minister is: what opportunities do you have for, for example, natural resource training, rural education, these expensive sectors, and the current cutbacks in vocational secondary education, not to be eliminated from the regions? This is not only a question of regional equality but also of the future of young people remaining in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u417	Mr President! The Left Alliance is interested in Finnish agriculture. The employment effect of the Finnish food chain is 300,000 jobs. It's not a little bit. In other words, one in five adults receives their wages from a chain that starts with a Finnish farmer. Mr President! The government crisis package for farmers is a good thing, but it is primarily a cosmetic and more symbolic gesture than real or sufficient aid to farmers. In terms of security of supply, it is essential to ensure domestic agriculture and food self-sufficiency. How do you, as a minister, intend to promote the competitiveness of Finnish clean food and, in particular, the survival of small farmers? Since the government has proposed red tape under the leadership of the centre, what are the concrete means of facilitating, for example, the aid application jungle for farmers?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u418	Madam President! Fortunately, the government has reacted to the plight of farmers, but I would like to pay particular attention to that way of coping with farmers. I have already heard at least a few of these unfortunate news reports. How does the government intend to react to such matters, and has it been prepared? All in all, when we have talked about producer prices and how to correct them, does the government have something new to say about this fall, because the truth is that the increase in producer prices needs to be made in order to improve the income of the farmer? But there's some positive news. In Kymenlaakso, the Kaslink dairy is one that expands all the time and uses domestic milk and refines it to a very high degree as brand products for central shops. This type of positive news should also be raised, and I hope that such things will receive the attention they deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u419	Mr President! Indeed, the praiseworthy crisis package for agriculture of EUR 50 million contains a slightly secretive phrase for farms which have invested EUR 10 million in special aid. The insiders know that it would prefer to mean the abolition of the property tax on agricultural production buildings, as in Sweden. I would have asked the Minister: has cooperation with the Ministry of Finance on this matter been very easy, and if the EU Commission's authorisation is needed now, have the necessary measures already been taken?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u420	Mr President! I am going to raise the issue of the Baltic Sea winters, because it is true that the Baltic Sea is in a bad state, and the nutrient emissions from agriculture also need to be further reduced. There is a need for ways of promoting the circular economy, including biogas farms of a size class, cultivation techniques where nutrient leaching is not draining, and also the promotion of organic production. I would like to ask: what is new in the government and new volumes in the Baltic Sea? At the same time, I hope that, when agriculture is greened, it will be done in a way that in itself reduces bureaucracy and also supports the farmer's survival, so that it is done sustainably so that consumers can have cleanly produced, good Finnish products, which also take account of environmental sustainability and carrying capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u421	Madam President! In this Chamber, if you know anything, you need better incomes, better market prices, better producer prices, but there are times when politics can influence them than a string can push. Therefore, since agricultural expenditure has continued to rise in recent years — even in this budget, it can be said that property tax will increase, the tax on heating and transport fuels and vehicle tax will increase — perhaps there will be a greater tax reform in agriculture and entrepreneurship aimed at ensuring that income generation will continue to be in line with the fact that it is precisely the income stream that can be used to improve its own financial situation? Perhaps a tax reform could be such a solution to this. Has the Ministry considered such a thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u422	Mr President! Three messages to the minister. First of all, agricultural profitability: Invest in the functioning of the food chain and look for new export markets for clean, high-quality Finnish food. This is particularly important because of the import ban imposed by Russia. Secondly, please set up that parliamentary working group to consider improving the conditions for the forest industry to operate. We need a common national view on how to get these investments started, how to secure timber management, how to keep forest education and know-how in this country and, for example, how to prioritise the Kemera Act. Thirdly, President, I would like to highlight the need for updating the reindeer husbandry law. Today, we parliamentarians are receiving a great deal of concern, particularly from the north-east, where there are problems between the inhabitants and the reindeer, when that old nomadic industry is spreading to very dense urban areas and regions and conflicts are not avoided. Now the law requires an update, and we expect you, Minister Tiilikainen, to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u423	Madam President! I too would like to thank you for that 50 million crisis package. Of course, when there is not much money to distribute, there are quite a lot of such activities, too, which are actually only beginning to have an effect later and which will surely also require checking with the EU that they become possible in Finland. When there is not much money to distribute, it is important for bureaucracy to be dismantled, and therefore even the central parliamentary group has proposed 202 new deregulation targets, and a large proportion of them actually concern the food industry and agriculture, and hopefully they will also move forward. However, Minister, I would like to ask in connection with the Procurement Act — when the Government stated in the Government's Resolution that welfare criteria must be respected in domestic procurements and in order to get food production from home to all our institutions — how can we now take into account the fact that it is, above all, domestic food that is purchased in Finland in the course of the reading of the Procurement Act?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u424	Now the clock goes on to say that one speech before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u425	Mr President! Could it be interpreted that the SDP no longer imposes real estate tax on forest land when there were such positive speeches here about improving the profitability of forestry and ensuring the maintenance of wood? This is a good thing if this is also the official case for party leadership. After all, it has been the troll, the stick you have always offered, that the land and forest economies have a property tax and that these forest owners and landowners are squatted in. I'm glad that's the case. But then I will kindly say to Mr Kosk: I am sure you know that tax policy is in the preparation of the Ministry of Finance, and I believe that there is a willingness on the centre's side to take up all the good proposals that will improve the profitability of important primary production, but that kind of speech should be used tomorrow at the meeting of the parliamentary assembly of the Coalition Party and to urge Minister Orpo to move this issue forward with great determination, including in the area of tax policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u427	There were so many questions to Minister Tiilikainen that five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u428	Thank you, Mr President. Several representatives spoke about this distribution of food prices between farmers, food processing and trade. Indeed, the Finnish food does not appear on the consumer's plate once and for all unless it is profitable for the Finnish farmer, this is understandable to all parties involved. In May, I already asked the parties in the chain to attend the first meeting, and these contacts will continue. In fact, it is worth noting that the Agriculture Council, with a reasonable degree of consensus the other week, reached conclusions which, of course, primarily require this self-regulation of the food chain to play and every fair part of it, but did not exclude the possibility of EU legislation then regulating the distribution of income in this food chain. However, the priority is self-regulation in this field — hopefully we will also be able to make progress. Many representatives talked about exports, and it is really the case that it is precisely through export markets that this growth comes from the bulk of Finland in the transition from branding to Finland. In Finland, we do not spend much more money on food than we do at the moment, at least in the next few years, so the growth of food businesses depends largely on exports. China is an interesting market and there are many others. I myself visited three different countries during the last winter on export promotion trips, and the follow-up is now in the autumn and in the winter, and fortunately something always comes along from there. For example, during this mentioned trip to China, we received final reports from the Chinese authorities on inspections of these Finnish slaughterhouses. In other words, the production conditions should be in order, the last additions from us have been sent what their authorities have wanted. Of course, we are waiting for the Chinese to decide. Evira is very supportive in this regard in order to demonstrate those requirements in each of the countries of destination and, fortunately, we have confidence in our food inspection and safety. This is the profitability and taxation that Mr Koski and Mr Rantakangas, for example, spoke about, and indeed it belongs to the Ministry of Finance, but I am pleased that the reduction in entrepreneurial activity also applies to agriculture, rural businesses, and this will certainly make the tax impact of next year's budget positive for farmers. Forests are a national matter for Finland, it is a very important thing, and we have long-standing extensive preparation of forestry policy and forestry strategy. If parliamentary work brings more commitment to it, more faith in the future and helps set the target, so that we dare to set even more ambitious targets for the forest side, then I will seriously consider this proposal. That increase in EFI appropriations, which Mr Heikkinen mentioned, is indeed worthy of mention. That is what a number of representatives called for last autumn for the EFI to have difficulties. Your concern has been answered and that level of funding has now been permanently increased, and it is precisely in this context of forestry policy and also climate policy that EFI's expertise is needed on a European scale, because the importance of forests is also emphasised on that side. My message to young people who are thinking of changing generations, what Mrs Korhonen asked in this Chamber, in almost the traditional way, is that patience is strong, but people need food every single day, and the world's population is growing. Of course, as decision-makers, we must try to ensure that, for our part, the conditions for profitable action, for sensible action — and through cutting red tape, that sensible action will also come — are safeguarded, but then, from there and through export, we will still be able to obtain those additional euros. Finally, Mr Karimäki asked about many aspects of the environment. Biogas plants will be promoted as part of that crisis package and we agreed to promote biogas plants at farm level through concrete decisions in the context of the climate and energy strategy. Organic milk has been the engine of organic growth in Sweden and Denmark. That's what the government wants. The regulation will allow the use of D-Vitamination of organic milk and the school milk aid will be directed towards organic milk, with the aim of increasing the share of organic milk in schools and day-care centres. For example, pipsa faith is the answer to reducing the burden on agriculture. Increasing the carbon content of the soil, all this, is now being put to testing and testing. [President MariaLohela : Minister Tiilikainen,timed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u433	Moving to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Both ministers will make presentations at the outset and then move on to the debate. — Minister Rehn will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u434	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, the growth of Finland’s national economy has shown signs of recovery. While we were still moving close to zero growth last year, this and next year would seem to be close to a 1% increase. However, that is not enough for us, especially not for a significant increase in employment. In order to do better, we need to take care of the competitiveness of Finnish work and production. Our successful companies in the world will increase our exports, and our society will benefit from it as investment and employment as well as tax revenue. We are a strongly export-driven economy, an export-driven society. Our export locomotives, when well maintained and greased, generate sustainable economic growth and also improve our employment. The State has an important role to play in promoting exports and investment. Last week, in the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy, we set out a policy to increase Finnvera's export guarantee mandate by EUR 8 billion to the level of EUR 27 billion. At the same time, the financial mandate for export credits and the interest compensation mandate will both be raised from 13 to EUR 22 billion. In the current competitive situation, the adequacy of export financing is part of the necessary competitive conditions for Finnish business and entrepreneurship that the government wants to improve. The increase in powers will have a significant impact on exports and employment. All in all, we are working hard to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production. The Competitiveness Pact is a key element of this joint effort. The agreement is better than its reputation and now supports emerging growth, generating between 35,000 and 45,000 new jobs, according to estimates. In addition, in my area of responsibility, we have put together a comprehensive entrepreneurship package. Preparations are under way to lower the threshold for hiring the first employee. In the context of the regional reform, we are preparing to combine business and business services into growth services, making employment and entrepreneurship services more interlinked. Next month, Tekes will launch an innovation voucher aimed at bringing in a wider range of SMEs to use knowledge-intensive services. Next year's draft budget also contains a new concrete tool to ensure cost competitiveness in the energy-intensive export industry. To compensate for the indirect costs of emissions trading, we propose EUR 43 million, financed by emissions trading revenue, so that half of them would be used to prevent this carbon leakage, which is necessary for both the economy and the environment. Contrary to what has been claimed recently, carbon leakage occurs and has been a long minus for the steel industry in Europe and Finland. Imports of stainless steel into the EU have increased from 9% to as much as 26% over the decade. The increase in imports is almost entirely from China, when global greenhouse gas emissions have also increased by 4 million tonnes. Carbon leakage and, above all, job leakage should be taken seriously from both the environmental and the economic point of view. As SAK Chief Economist Olli Koski, a highly qualified economist, has said: "For example, the World Bank states: that the risk of carbon leakage cannot by any means be ruled out. The impression is that VATT deliberately minimizes the impact of energy tax refunds on competitiveness. Removing energy tax returns would reduce the competitiveness of energy-intensive industries as surely as wage increases. The importance of the competitive impact of price increases may differ, but it is unjustified to deny it in its entirety."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u435	Mr President! A year ago, for the first time, I presented the draft budget for the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. At the time, I mentioned and reiterate the basic point that we have in our hands when it comes to employment: over the last few years, a weak year of economic growth has always followed a weak year of economic growth, and when this pattern is repeated enough in a row, we are in a situation where our employment development is too weak. Are we discouraged? No, we're not. Have we been inactive? No, we're not. Have we made changes now? Yes, we are. Before I go into more detail on the details we have made as a government to improve the employment situation, a few words about the present. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that this year the unemployment rate would be 9 per cent, an improvement of 0.4 percentage points compared to last year. The forecast for 17 is 8.8% unemployment, so even though the train is moving slowly, the direction is the right one. In this process, the government's new openings and, without any doubt, the competitiveness pact play a significant role. A few more words on the current situation. At the end of last month, employment and economic development offices had over 342,500 unemployed job seekers. There's a lot, too much. However, it is 4,200 fewer than one year ago. These figures are still too high, but the fact is that the reforms we have decided on during the year are not yet reflected in the figures. Moderate economic growth and the current employment situation combined with the fact that we need to put our country's public finances on a sustainable footing create an equation that is not easy to solve. We will not be able to solve the equation as in the past by shoveling more money into action, but we will have to tackle problems in other ways. We do not need any hocus-pocus employment tricks, we do not need them on any sleeve, but new, extensive and, above all, impressive measures. We will change the focus of passive measures more towards active measures. The draft budget will also increase the opportunities to offer work trials to unemployed job seekers by removing legislative restrictions. The aim is to increase work trials in areas where part-time work is typically carried out. We will also increase the resources of the TE Offices by EUR 17 million. Te-services will be made more efficient and the use of private service providers will be increased. From the beginning of next year, periodic interviews with unemployed people will take place every three months, which will allow us to support jobseekers and find suitable solutions for each job seeker better than before. Are the above measures sufficient? Not as such. In the context of the budget debate, we also decided on other important tripartite preparatory measures. To sum up, they are listed in five points: 1) reform of earnings-related unemployment benefit to encourage faster employment; 2) use of earnings-related unemployment benefit as wage support and start-up grant; 3) promotion of employment among young people not in employment and education through a skills programme, outreach youth work and youth workshops; 4) new collective agreement wage model for long-term unemployed people and those with poor work history, accompanied by additional pay support; 5) one-off pension support for older people. An impressive list, but we will not stop working on this, but the government will start preparing for a mid-term review of its mandate in order to dismantle the traps and promote labour mobility. Let me finish with a few words on the integration package that I am responsible for. The latest estimates of August indicate that around 7200 immigrants would receive a residence permit this year. The basis for this assessment is that about a quarter of the applicants would receive a positive decision. We have increased the budget for integration training, as well as municipal compensation for integration measures to EUR 220 million, which is some sixty million more than in the current year's budget. In the face of the new situation, we have also looked for new financing solutions, which I would like to highlight here the Investment Fund for the Integration and Effectiveness of Employment of Migrants. Mr President! Here are some of the key elements of the budget that I am responsible for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u436	All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the debat. You can address questions or comments to both ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u437	Mr President! Thank you to both ministers for these presentations. A great deal of work has been done in this budget to improve employment, to activate the unemployed with new measures that are particularly effective, which is a very good thing, precisely this use of unemployment benefit as pay subsidies, including start-up grants and mobility grants. The other side than the activation of the unemployed is then to create conditions for new jobs, but also to create conditions for the maintenance of existing jobs. Thank you, Mr Rehn, for this good and rather detailed explanation of what is at stake in this compensation for indirect costs of emissions trading, because these have been the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u438	Madam President! Thank you to the ministers for your excellent introductory remarks. First of all, I would like to address this export-driven debate, which Mr Rehn raised. It is very good that we have these export guarantees, because business is also increasing. However, the big question mark or challenge is lower export guarantees. They are often very large orders worth billions of dollars, which are a great thing, but when you start talking about a million, two million export guarantees, you get into trouble. A market study or customer survey often takes up one third of the cost, between EUR 100000 and EUR 150000. Just today there was a message from one entrepreneur that they are applying for a small export guarantee in the direction of Kyrgyzstan. They said you can't take a chance. This is the only risk we have to pay back in three months. So the question of these small export guarantees: how can they also be made to work so that smaller companies can export in such a way that the export guarantee is included?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u439	Mr President! Minister Lindström described that unemployment has fallen by just over 4,000 compared to one year ago, and this is a good thing. It is about the same as the increase in the activation rate, which is to say, in reality, that the number of active measures has been slightly higher than one year ago, the fall in unemployment has been achieved. In this respect, I am pleased that labour market support can continue to be used as wage support and start-up money and mobility grants. That model isn't new. It's been used before, but it's a smart model when there's a shortage of money. But when I looked at those numbers, You advertised that a lot of structural reforms are taking place. Why, then, do you in the budget estimate that structural unemployment will be higher next year than it will be this year, that unemployment periods will be about the same as they are this year and that youth unemployment will be at the same level as this year? If you look at your estimates and the budget book, however, you do not believe in your own actions as it were. But I would hope that, as vigorously as you are in favour of these other matters, you would argue that unemployment benefit can be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u440	Madam President! It is good that government policy has gradually begun to bite and that the ports of export are beginning to take place. And Minister Rehn said quite well that export guarantees have been increased and then export credit instruments have been increased. I would have asked the Minister: What do you think is the outlook for export trade in the near future in 2017? Are the measures taken sufficient? And the second point, Mr Lindström, is that, now that these pay subsidies are being planned, they are in the trilogue planning and the negotiations are under way: do you have any prospects for yourselves as to how to achieve this? This would be important if new instruments were to be created to create people's jobs, because the only effective way to help people in need and help the unemployed is to get them a job. It's the most valuable thing in the world. What do you think? Is this pay support job gonna work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u441	Mr President! Minister Lindström, wise labour policy is not based on people being activated from above, but on understanding the natural activity of people and trying to see if there is something in the system that prevents it. Well, the great frictions of our unemployment benefit system are the unpredictability of official decisions, the pregnancy of bureaucracy and the lack of help: the fact that these personal meetings are not actually being received or received when the momentum has passed months ago. All of these would be covered by the appropriation that is now being allocated to these mechanical meetings every three months. In recent years, the trend has been to try to differentiate services according to people’s needs rather than to provide the same bulk for everyone — because it does not work because it costs a lot of money because the result is inefficient. Why don't we think about this from the beginning?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u442	Mr President! I don't want to underestimate the opinion of the Chief Economist of the SAK. I also hope that the Minister and the Government will not underestimate independent research. This is the issue of this carbon leakage. The second is based on the fact that it cannot be completely excluded in the future, and the second is based on the fact that research data cannot detect it. It is therefore appropriate to ask, if these are the two options, whether the aid of almost EUR 650 million as a whole is quite appropriate when there is a shortage of money and new markets need to be developed all the time, and where the euro should also be found — and according to VATT’s research, these aids have not benefited competitiveness or employment. This is above all the case. The Minister forgot to mention that Chief Economist Koski also says that multi-disciplinary production subsidies and their conflicting objectives do not lead to an effective outcome. And Mr Koski stresses that we should now achieve a more economically efficient approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u443	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Well-being at work is a key factor in pursuing longer working careers. Pension age has been raised, which is a good thing for the economy and employment, but I ask you, Minister for Labour: what are the measures planned to improve well-being at work? Sick leave is estimated to cost society and employers about EUR 24 billion a year. How will these costs be reduced? Cutting the human dimension in the already heavy care of the elderly will certainly not improve the ability of nurses to cope. The growth of our economy requires employees to be motivated and to enjoy their work. Now we need a strong effort to improve well-being at work. How do you do that?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u444	Mr President! Our economic growth now rests too much solely on domestic demand and, on the other hand, on construction. We are not keeping up with the pace of exports in the world economy, and we have lost our share. With this forecast of economic growth, which has now been made for a few years, the employment objective will not be achieved. We need faster economic growth. And from this point of view, this price competitiveness is not the main problem for us now, but the problem is that we need to find a new alternative to this economic and industrial policy: the strengthening of the base of exports, the promotion of exports of high-processing products, affordable energy and investment here in the country of origin. We need a new industrial and economic policy thinking in this respect. The fact that Tekes' appropriations relating to research and product development and innovation are being cut is very bad. And a couple of free proposals for the spring spending limits debate, this mid-term review: it would be good, [President MariaLohela: now there is a good deal ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u447	Madam President! I would like to thank the government for its policy, which supports micro- and small-scale entrepreneurship and makes it easier to become an entrepreneur. In particular, the introduction of payment-based VAT is a welcome reform for all small entrepreneurs. In addition, the possibility of using unemployment benefits as a start-up grant will support the creation of new enterprises. One of the government's key projects is the dismantling of the incentive traps, which is of great importance for the profitability of accepting all work and even the fight against the shadow economy. I hope that, following the report of the working group on the dismantling of incentives traps and the promotion of labour mobility, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will be able to take as good measures as has been seen with regard to entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u448	Madam President! The government deserves praise for its pragmatic, pragmatic approach to the issues at hand. In view of the compensatory aid for indirect costs of emissions trading, this may not be the kind of support that my ideal society would have, but when we live in this practical world where we are, it makes no sense even in a policy that we export jobs abroad and, at the same time, actually increase emissions. This is a very sensible approach in this real world. Similarly, I feel responsible for the government's concern about the labour market as a whole, both in reducing the threshold for employment and then in improving employees' insensitivity to take up work. For this, the proposals made by both ministers deserve our full thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u449	Madam Speaker! Thank you both for a good report. They are, in addition to Eastern trade, the core work of our section. Minister Rehn: I agree with his assessment that just now Outokumpu's stock was almost 4.5 per cent up. The price of steel also goes a little further in Finland. But as a complement to this budget, there will be a further binding decision to end the Terrafame mine, and it has caused... In the spring, we visited there with the section for two days and had a slightly better idea of Terrafame's future than the government's Committee on Economic Policy. They are also complemented by the numbers that have now been presented in public about Terrafame's success,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u450	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to say that the SDP supports the view that efforts are being made to control the costs of industry. We supported it in the last government, and now that we are here in the opposition, we will continue along the same lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u454	Mr President! There happens to be one Socialist Minister for Labour, during which the solution has been adopted — although it was then presented by Mr Mönkäre, because it belonged to him and we worked together to prepare it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u455	Mr President! The Left Alliance is in no way opposed to the fact that unemployed people are met — they are all met, the better. But the Left Alliance is opposed to the fact that we are wasting our little money on mechanical meetings for which there is no clear need, rather than primarily trying to guarantee people the opportunity to meet the authority when it is needed. At the moment, if you need help looking for a job, you can't get it from our te-office because you don't have enough money to arrange meetings. This is a problem that I think needs to be resolved first before we start thinking about any of these three-month roulettes which, at least on the basis of the statements that have now been given in advance, are mainly designed to control the unemployed, even if it is put on such euphemisms to take a catch. Taking a catch is an answer to a scream, not a stick.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u456	Madam President! I believe that the vast majority of the more than 340 000 unemployed, and in particular of the 127900 long-term unemployed, believe that it is right and reasonable to try to find new ways of reducing unemployment. The companies with 82,500 vacancies will also be pleased to see that new solutions are being sought. I am very surprised at the opposition in this previous speech to the fact that we really want to give help to these unemployed people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u457	Madam President! Now, of course, we must remember that we already have in place a plan for employment within three months, and if it cannot be completed, we will not be able to bring the job if Leelia's reclining chair is added every three months, which means, Minister Lindström, 1400,000 meetings per year, and these are only meetings. Would it not be better to spend this money actively on finding those jobs and working to ensure that job vacancies and the unemployed meet each other? Instead, you are now outsourcing employment services above all else. Is it the case that you want to make job agencies, te-offices, currently Leelia's rest chairs, which ask people every three months how it is for you, would it be nice if we could find a job for you, but oh, we don't have time to look for it when the next person comes to this meeting? A little bit of this pragmatism I'd like to ask about these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u458	One last speech before the ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u459	Madam President! In principle, an unemployed job seeker wants to get a job, and it is therefore quite justified that activation should continue and even be made more effective. The government also deserves support for moving ahead with a comprehensive package in order to tackle unemployment. I would like to draw the attention of Minister Lindström to the dramatic increase in academic unemployment that has been going on for four years now. It is growing more than general unemployment and, in fact, more and more people are also long-term unemployed. Then there's another thing. According to international surveys, when measuring Finland’s innovation environment, we are at the forefront, but then these innovations do not turn into money. And we know that all too often Finnish innovations are sold to the world as unfinished when we do not get enough risk finance. I hope, Minister Rehn, that there will be more risk finance, different forms of financing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u460	Then there is the opportunity for ministers to respond. Three minutes for both of us. Secretary Rehn will begin. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u461	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you for a proper and constructive debate. Mr Jaskari, Mr Ronkainen and Mr Rydman referred to the Government's pragmatic approach to promoting the cause of the smallest companies, and this is precisely the case. The focus of the Sipilä Government's industrial policy has been shifted more from the previous one from encouraging larger and medium-sized enterprises to encouraging the smallest and, often, micro-enterprises and encouraging their growth, encouraging internationalisation. Regarding Mr Jaskar's question about the smallest export guarantees, this can well be assessed as part of Finnvera's financial instruments and seen how they can be developed specifically for this purpose. It's a very important question. Congressman Hoskonen asked about the prospects for exports. I think it is very important to note that last week's SME Barometer, which has a rather large sample of 6000 companies, has an increasing number of growth-oriented companies, as are the expectations of the business cycle at the micro-level, as are the macroeconomic forecasts at present. It is precisely because it supports the restoration and improvement of the competitiveness of Finnish work and production in the seam when exports need to be strongly withdrawn. We estimate that, in terms of cost competitiveness, we will reach Sweden by 2018 and Germany by 2020 thanks to the Competitiveness Pact, assuming that wage increases in these other two countries are roughly the same pace and level as they have been in recent years. We therefore wish the best success for IG Metal and all other German and Swedish trade unions, because those countries can afford and therefore make sense to raise wages and thereby maintain their own demand and demand for the euro area and the European economy as a whole. That's right. Then the representatives of Ihalainen and Lindtman, as well as the Estonians, referred to innovation and research funding, in a way to real competitiveness, in addition to cost competitiveness alone and alongside it. It's a very important question. The Budget Committee decided that the whole field of funding for innovation and research will be examined by the mid-term review of the Government, i.e. by next spring a qualitative and quantitative assessment will be made of how to strengthen Finnish funding for innovation and research and, above all, how to channel it towards supporting the competitiveness of Finnish work and production also as growing market shares and thus as new jobs. A working group was set up, chaired by the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u462	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u463	Madam President! First of all, thank you for the debate and the feedback. Congressman Filatov asked if we don't believe in our own actions. We believe in our own actions, but this is not only up to our efforts, but also needs other measures, that is, the social partners, and we need a business, everyone, for this. After that, the goal that we have set will be realized. We believe in our own actions, but it must, of course, be admitted that there are challenges. Representative Hoskonen, view of this Hetemäki Task Force: The work is in progress, so it is, of course, too early at this stage to assess what will happen there. I do believe and know that there is a constructive approach and a common will to seek solutions, and that is very positive. Mr Kontula and Mr Tolppanen, you seem to know in advance what model this interview is. Mr Kontula spoke of mechanical meetings, and Mr Tolppanen believes that employment services are being outsourced, and both go into the woods to swing. That's not what this is about. This is what we are doing here, so that the support of the TE Offices will also be provided by this private side to help with this interview, because this is a very big challenge. We know that there is a great deal of interview debt, and that is why we need a private side to help us, and that is why we are looking at it. We have not decided what the model is, where the money is now put. It has not yet been decided whether or not to put $17 million in these mechanical interviews you call. The aim of these interviews is to take that unemployed person's situation seriously, and we also know that it will be a big challenge for us to meet everyone from face to face. I'm sure we'll also have to use technology to help with this. This is such a huge crowd. But that is precisely what I am talking about — I am not talking about any more booths, because then we are going to go to the ball game — that because the unemployed person is a person, he needs to be confronted and his situation individually resolved and to think about how to proceed from now on. That's why they put this money here, Mr. Tolppanen. Well, then these decisions by the authorities and the bureaucracy that Mr Kontula raised. I myself have spoken this summer about the fact that I quite agree that this kind of bureaucratic approach needs to be overcome. That is why we need to clarify what can be done without any need to change the legislation at all. In other words, these interpretations and application guidelines could be much more flexible. It's easier said than done, but that's what I want to map out and take forward. Representative Rehn-Kivi, well-being at work: the previous government started the Work Life 2020 project, and this government continues it, and the message that came from the previous government period was that now during this term of government we need to get to the level of concreteness, that is where the workplaces, to really invest in that well-being at work, because I too believe that there are many benefits available there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u464	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u465	Madam President! A number of Arctic reports have been produced in Finland recently, including Lipponen's report to the EK on "North will status" and the Arctic report from the Prime Minister's Office. Four drivers of growth were mentioned: tourism, energy policy, the sustainable extractive economy and the bioeconomy. The Barents region is estimated to have investment needs of up to EUR 196 billion, and the key question is how Finnish companies get to these projects. The EFSI funds also need to be better used to support Arctic expertise, and Finland needs to be made a pioneer in high Arctic expertise. In this context, I would like to highlight the ice-sea rail link. A new route to Asia would improve Finland’s competitiveness and speed up traffic from Finland to the growth market in Asia. I would like to ask you, Minister Rehn: what concrete steps does the government have to take to promote Arctic affairs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u466	Madam President! In this state budget proposal, where the first pages set out economic policy, it says that the tax focus is shifted from labour and enterprise taxation, particularly to harmful taxes. There is no better policy on taxation than this. I would really like to encourage the government to think about the ways in which we would get it down to taxation on labour. This would give more room for manoeuvre as to how the working conditions can be agreed, because it is essential for employees to know how much money they will have left in their hands. If taxation can be pushed down there, then we will also have more room to talk about what the cost of work is. In order to finance this, we should tax more than the disadvantages and, in particular, not grant aid to companies that cause the damage. For example, this policy, 43 million for energy-intensive industries: the government should not choose winners but focus on getting
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u467	Mr President! For the previous section, there was talk of exports and the Chinese market, and we must continue to do so. We had the opportunity to meet with the authorities of Hangzhou and Shanghai cities and their province, and they gave a good tip that could further strengthen the etabolization of Finnish companies there and again the Chinese here and the interest of Chinese venture investors specifically in Finland. They were prepared to set up a platform that would involve Finnish authorities, Chinese authorities, Finnish and Chinese companies, and to find out what, for example, the Chinese are ready to buy. It is always worth selling what the buyers want to buy on the market. I am inspired by Minister Rehn that your ministry, if there is a request from the local delegation, will be active and will be involved in the fact that such a platform, which will discuss this issue, can take this issue forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u468	Mr President! It is wonderful that Mr Kalli raised China and its potential. The unfortunate thing is that other countries that compete with us have been making such platforms for a long time. But it is good that this issue has now come up and that Finland is also involved in the models that rival countries are already doing. It is a sad thing that since accession to the EU Finland's international presence outside the EU has decreased, and I claim that this is one of the reasons why our exports are not pulling. We don't have relationships, we don't have presence, we don't have the kind of skills we used to have. That is why I hope that in Finland we will have fewer innovation seminars among ourselves and create more feet for the world and know-how to make real trade. That is what Finland needs. I would ask you now, Minister, if you are satisfied with Team Finland's activities, and if you are not, how would you develop it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u469	Mr President! The Government's draft budget will continue to reduce the most effective R & D and innovation funding for employment and growth. It means less new jobs, less new products, less growth. These cuts have been criticised by experts and the effectiveness of these subsidies has been proven. At the same time, a new ETS compensation subsidy will be launched, although the price of electricity is not rising and the price of allowances is falling and the energy-intensive industry is already being supported by hundreds of millions of euros. In the light of the research data, there is no significant risk of carbon leakage, and this is also reflected by the large investments in the forest sector in Finland at the moment. China is involved in the steel dumping of subsidised steel production in Europe, and this must be addressed, and the Commission is fortunately starting to do so with tariffs, for example. The whole of these business subsidies should be assessed on an impact-based basis. It is not enough to justify business subsidies on the basis of false assumptions. I would like to know what studies Minister Rehn is setting up this chosen line that the experts say will reduce the most impressive of all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u470	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers both for the opening speeches and for the answers that have already been given. It is very good that Minister Lindström also responded in detail to the ambiguity surrounding these interviews, which has been constantly being played around. I am very pleased that the ministers stressed this, that we will not allow jobs to escape from Finland. We are not discouraged. And the trend has already changed, even though there is still a slow development that we hope to be able to increase, especially in terms of economic growth and employment. I would like to ask a few specific questions, one for both ministers. Minister Rehn stressed this very well that the recruitment of the first employee should be facilitated in the future. Can you open up more of this and perhaps how many jobs are available through this? After all, we have a huge number of one-person companies at the moment. I would like to ask Minister Lindström about the future reflection you have mentioned on how the incentive traps can be dismantled. How, then, will this be carried forward in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u471	Mr President! An interview with the unemployed every three months is a good thing if the interview also includes personal guidance, support and training from human needs. This type of interview and guidance requires time and professionalism. Any meeting will not help, and I hope that the Minister will now also take this into account. Hopefully, the Minister's promise of an interview every three months will also apply to young people, because at the moment, in te-offices, a young person will have to wait for more than six months in Finland to get to a professional for the first time. However, we know that in the case of a young person, after three months, the risk of exclusion will increase if he does not get anywhere. My question is this: does the Minister also promise young people a first meeting with a professional in at least three months' time, which, in fact, is often too long for a young person?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u472	Madam President! I would like to start by thanking the government for, for example, increasing the amount of export funding from EUR 19 to EUR 27 billion. It does give us a burgeoning promise that our exports will begin to recover. In addition, there was a happy record in the budget debate that the taxation of wind power in real estate will be investigated, and hopefully it will be brought into the next year's budget. It would be a good way to cut the oversized subsidies that the feed-in tariff has become and to turn the benefits to the local economy. In addition, I think that the audiovisual production incentive is also in order, and it is an innovative and supportive arrangement, which has already existed in other Nordic countries. I would like to ask Minister Rehn how the obligation to mix biofuels in the energy and climate strategy is progressing. Many biorefinery projects are currently waiting for a strong record to quadruple the blending obligation in the government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u473	Mr President! You'd think the government would take the chance to hit two birds with one stone. Climate change is the greatest challenge for mankind, and Finnish industry has to offer solutions, energy efficiency and other things. In Finland, so-called environmental technologies have already grown into a larger industry than the forest industry in terms of turnover, exports and employment. You would think that the government would want to promote more jobs and competitiveness in this highly growing international sector. However, as many colleagues have already said, in addition to the former subsidies, the government is providing 43 million new aid to our electricity-intensive industry, although the State Economic Research Centre has found it ineffective, unjustified and even harmful, and also to research projects funded by the Strategic Research Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u474	Mr President! We political decision-makers must ensure that our industry and industry have competitive conditions that correspond to the level of our competitors. In this respect, this increase in Finnvera’s export guarantees was very significant. That was a mega-class solution, given our employment and the ability of businesses to act. Instead, there is a deep amazement about the policies of the Left Alliance and the Greens. You are gnawing at the competitiveness of our basic industry. You are therefore taking jobs out of Finland. You talk about well-being and all the good things, as you did yesterday, but if this industrial base is wrecked — and there is talk of exports, it is wrecked — then we will not have the money for all these good things. This is total hypocrisy. But it was a great thing that the head of the SDP team came to support the government in this matter. We need long-term cooperation to ensure the operating conditions of Finnish business, competitiveness and thus Finnish well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u475	Mr President! I'm sure Congressman Beachkangas didn't listen to what I said. I said that Finnish environmental technology, where the biggest pot is technology and other solutions that serve energy efficiency, is already a bigger sector in terms of turnover, employment and exports than the forest industry. That sector is growing rapidly. We should seize the opportunity available to promote an area with excellent growth prospects internationally. Instead, we are wasting money on unjustified support. This compensation for the indirect effects of emissions trading is justified by the price of electricity. According to Eurostat statistics, in the second half of last year the price of electricity in Finnish industry was the second lowest in the EU. And according to the State Economic Research Centre, there is no evidence of a so-called carbon leakage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u476	Mr President! Yes, it is the Finnish Government, which undermines Finland's competitiveness and cuts the most effective subsidies in terms of employment. Research, product development and innovation support is the most effective aid to create new jobs, and it enables us to get new growth, new exports and the well-being and income needed for Finland. Business subsidies must be directed to where they create the most work and new exports, and this should be done on the basis of research and proven knowledge. As Mr Hassi has just said, the price of electricity in Finland is very low and there is no research data to justify the need and effectiveness of these subsidies now being launched. In other words, I would really like the government to look at the overall effectiveness of business subsidies in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u477	Mr President! Representative Sarkkinen, you come from Northern Finland, where the basic industry is of immense importance: SSAB factory, Outokumpu factory in Tornio and so on. There is no contradiction here that we are promoting the export of environmental technologies — not of course — but while at the same time you are prepared to take away those basic jobs from the basic industry, there is no increase in net jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u480	Mr President! Mr Hassi, I think that you are putting two industries against each other, quite wrongly. An industry based on environmental technology, which employs a lot in Finland and has a huge export potential, is an extremely good thing, but it is not, however, against this basic industry. Now this EUR 43 million that will be put in the compensation for emissions trading is essential for the competitiveness of this energy-intensive industry in Finland, and it must be remembered that our competitors will compensate for their own energy-intensive industry with everything that the EU allows, i.e. 100%, Finland is quite restrained in my view, because this compensation, which Finland gives to its own industry and helps its competitiveness, is only 50% of what the EU allows. But, Minister Rehn, I would also like to ask about this pre-financing, because it has not come much to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u481	Mr President! Since the respected Minister Rehn quotes the Chief Economist of the SAK, I want to know: what do you think, Minister Rehn, about the objective of Chief Economist Kosk and the claim that the most efficient energy system should be built economically? And is it economically sensible to add on top of the energy tax cutter, already on top of the lower electricity tax rates, yet another emission auction compensation support in a situation where Eurostat says very clearly that the price of electricity is the second cheapest in the EU for an industrial operator in Finland? When there is little money, should not the euro be targeted where it best supports employment and competitiveness, rather than where this aid is frankly ineffective?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u482	Madam President! I agree with the previous speakers here, Mrs Turunen and Mrs Rantakangas, that we should now put these two together. For example, the Finnish steel industry is about 4 to 5 times less environmentally polluting than the steel industry in China. And the fact is that over the last ten years imports of steel from China have increased from 9% to 26%. This has increased by 4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. At least from an environmental point of view, this may not be a bad solution. All the time, this industry is also improving its environmental balance and is doing this research and development much better than others, perhaps. Let's not talk about the fact that someone destroys and someone less destroys, but that someone is better in a particular sector and someone worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u483	Mr President! It might be thought that there would be such a compromise that the costs of industry would be kept under control and at the same time invested in these innovations, and the government could re-evaluate, as Mr Ihalainen here called for, for example, this cut in the subsidies for business and innovation in Tekes, which are also proven to be very effective. Sarkkinen spoke well of this. So it's not either or it's both. This is the sensible line. This should go. Then, yes, in the coming years we will have to clean up this whole jungle, and that must be done carefully. But, Mr President — which seems to be changing now — the answer that was not received from Minister Lindström: you spoke, you promised to take this model of the Ringe, which is the idea that a little bureaucracy will give you an automatic employment voucher. It now comes to mind that it is simply a matter of cancelling earlier cuts in employment appropriations, which is also good, better than nothing. But now the question is: Will an automatic employment voucher come? Is the real Rinne model coming? The opposition has been asked for proposals, we have done them. Now it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u484	Mr President! The business framework should now be good, or it is beginning to be good. Interest rates are low, funding is available, corporate tax is competitive, entrepreneurship reduction is coming, availability and matching are moderately good. Mr Rehn, you said that Finland's cost competitiveness is beginning to be in good shape in 2018. I would like to ask you: are these measures and data already starting to make a strong start in 2017, or should we hurry this up with some more action, and what do you think they would be?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u485	Mr President! The structural measures to improve employment presented by Minister Lindström sounded promising, and I look forward to the results of these working groups, but instead the Government's climate policy is really going to blow the whistle on what you are doing and what you are doing against the climate objectives of Paris. With the current process and the current promises, we will not achieve the obligations of the Paris Agreement. In fact, the climate is warming by one and a half degrees even in 2024, if nothing is done, so there is no time to lose. Emissions auction revenues must be allocated to financing development and climate, not to polluting industries, as you do. The subsidies for renewable energy shine by their absence, the subsidies for small-scale renewable energy. I would like to ask the government: at what stage are the future systems of feed-in tariff subsidies? The Greens are in favour of the auction mechanism,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u486	Mr President! Yle published a study commissioned by the Economic Survey yesterday, according to which Finnish people's confidence in the job's survival has increased since last spring. According to the survey, 84% of their jobs are highly or fairly secure. I am very pleased that the survey showed that young people were the most optimistic. Only 7% of people under the age of 25 are afraid or at times uncertain about their job. According to Finnish Entrepreneurs, Finnvera and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy's autumn 2016 SME Barometer, already 43 per cent of the SMEs that responded to the survey estimated that the economic cycle would improve over the next 12 months. The unemployment figures in Häme have also improved since last year. According to the Häme Ely Centre, the direction has been reversed and in July there were already nearly 1,500 fewer job seekers than one year earlier — good news, if any. Ministers, this information shows that employment is affected by your change measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u487	Mr President! One of the major challenges and problems of our exports is that we should get medium-sized, growth-oriented and SMEs to internationalise, attach themselves to value chains so that they can get to the market there. We need to make new decisions here. The SDP has proposed the establishment of a stand, a special company that will help these companies to internationalise, guide them and export the whole concept and not just individual products. I think this is a good idea. We need something like this strength. Another point that relates to our investments and that is the second weak point: In addition to the mid-term review, the government is considering corporate tax reform, as I understand it, would it make sense for the government also to carry out a more comprehensive investment programme that supports the acquisition of private investment in Finland, but also the development of public investment in Finland? This would boost growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u488	Mr President! I am sure we all understand the concern about the personal level of unemployment benefit cuts, but unemployment costs more than EUR 5 billion per year to Finnish society. In order to correct Finland, it is necessary to curb expenditure growth, and the government wants unemployment not to be prolonged. And according to studies, the level of unemployment benefit and the maximum duration of benefit have an impact on the duration and reemployment of unemployment. I received strong insurance for this idea: Last night there was the Entrepreneurship Voice 2016 event, and there I met North Karelian entrepreneurs — a year ago in Lieksa I met an entrepreneur who had applied for a skilled workforce for his industrial job. I asked him if he's got an employee. Still hasn't. And so often he, like many other entrepreneurs, hears that ask a little later, I still have earnings-related unemployment benefit. Mr Lindström,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u489	Mr President! Consideration should be given to the wider scope of business aid. These subsidies mean well, but the problem is that they easily distort the market. The companies that are covered by the aid are better off than those who do not receive it. Companies that receive subsidies will become dependent on them, making it very difficult to reduce them in the future. These subsidies must be financed in some way, and in practice this means that we are taxing more elsewhere than we need to. And in Finland we tax work quite absurdly in relation to the number of unemployed, at the same time as we know that the cost of work has an impact on whether jobs are created or not. Rather, we should invest in reducing labour taxation and allow us not to spend so much money on these business subsidies. For the balance and sustainability of the national economy, we do not need exports at all as much as we need our employment rate to be higher than at present. And that's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u490	I will give the answers to the representatives of Jaskari and Paatero, and then the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u491	Mr President! I would have come back to these mechanical interviews, which have been said and interpreted. We really do not know whether it is a mechanical interview, but that is one of the solutions to this problem. Now we're looking at different options. There are private and public actors involved, genuinely looking at the quality factors that exist. None of us really want it to be a mechanical inspection, but in a certain way it is a comprehensive debate on how to rebuild perhaps the atmosphere that the job seeker has had, which has led to a failure to get back to the career. Is that not the case, Minister Lindström, that the point of view we want to give here is entirely different? It is not a question of harassing the unemployed in any way, but of finding a route, a path to working life in a more diverse way than is the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u492	Mr President! The government is doing a lot, but as Mrs Filatov says there is no belief in own employment measures, so we do not believe that growth will increase, because next year there will be less growth than this year. Where will all these actions go if they do not become such growth and jobs? I am confused about this text in the budget book. There is still concern in the regions that it will not be possible to employ, as the money for employment is running out. We don't dare, we can't, and next year won't look any better. This was now the case at the beginning of September. What is it next year if there is perhaps even less funding? Then the municipal trials. A very worthwhile idea for the long-term unemployed, hopefully, targeted as much as possible. But what will happen in two years' time if all employment measures are taken from the municipalities in the province? Is all that information going to Kankkula well?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u493	All right, now to ministers: Rehn, 3 minutes, and Lindström, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u494	Mr President! First of all, the representative Lindtman hit the trees when he referred to the model of the Ringe, and this is certainly not a problem for Jarpa — excuse me, Minister Lindström — nor for the Finns of Finland, because from the beginning the model of the Ringe is the model of Heikki Rinte from 1983, which was strongly driven by Minister of Labour Urpo Leppänen at the time. I interviewed him about that time, and then later I got an offer from the SMP party office to come work for them because of this interview. Mr Kalli and Mr Skinner spoke about entrepreneurship and exports, and I thank Mr Kalli for a very valuable tip and take this proposal very seriously. I note that we are doing a great deal of export promotion in the direction of China, and that is exactly what we need. Skinner asked for views on Team Finland's activities. I believe that one of the best aspects of this is that the domestic service model has been developed in the direction of customer orientation and the one-stop-shop principle. On the other hand, it is particularly important to develop how we can better get those who are able to export and internationalise and those who are able to grow — in principle — to actually make the effort to export and internationalise. And here I agree with Mr Ihalainen's view that we can afford to develop this type of activity as part of Team Finland's work. Together with Minister Mykkänen, we are trying to find companies that could, in principle, export but in practice need support. Congressman Kulmuni asked me about a mix-up. The Government has held a preliminary discussion on the national energy and climate strategy. For my part, I am going to propose an increase in the obligation to mix, which will contribute to a significant growth injection for bioenergy production, which in turn means the need for the construction of several biorefineries. It means work and opportunities for entrepreneurship, and it is particularly a great opportunity for the provinces in this country of green gold. To conclude: I think that Mr Turunen rightly said that we should not put cleantech against more traditional industries. I do not underestimate VATT's research, but when you read it in more detail, it is more a literary study than a rigorous empirical study, and the World Bank is quite different about these effects of carbon leakage. Let me remind you that the energy tax cutter was decided by the last government, the current opposition parties, and that is precisely what VATT has criticised when it was said to have taken away incentives from energy saving and the transition to renewables.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u495	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u496	Mr President! Representative Lindtman of this model or automatic employment voucher of the Ringe: In my introductory speech, I said that this government model of wage support, that is to say this active use of unemployment benefit, comes in October and then these details are clear as to what model it is. Then we can go back to those details. But this idea seems to be ours, as we have discussed many times, the same, i.e. passive money is used for active support. Mr Meri, this one-off pension subsidy, which is what we now want to call it, is voluntary, no one is forced to do so. It is man’s own choice, and so this was the answer to that question. Mr Terho, for the details of the dismantling of the incentive traps: that is, the government has launched the preparations for the dismantling of these incentive traps and the promotion of the movement of labour, which I believe is the mid-term review of this government's mandate, in which we will then look at these measures. But even now, from this morning's debate, I am bringing up, among other things, this debate on the protective part of enforcement, or in whatever way it is now being resolved, but in any case these incentives have been identified and are indeed being tackled. This was also the case in Mr Heikkinen's speech: which makes it worthwhile to accept the work. This is one of the key issues of the government, and it will certainly be addressed. This is, of course, an intolerable situation in which we are spending so much money on this problem of unemployment. That is why we need to think about how to spend that existing money smarter, and that is where we are going. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen is quite right that not just any interview is the solution that works here, and whether or not young people will come along. These regular interviews are aimed at finding suitable solutions for each job seeker, and I understand this phrase so that it means all the unemployed. Then, Mr Paatero, employment appropriations are not enough — I am fully aware that at this stage of the year, in some areas, the cash register is beginning to be empty. Last year, when the government started, the cashier was empty right away. Which means there's still a lot of old ways out there. There are big regional differences here. There are still some areas with good money left, but in some areas they are out of money, and this has, as in the past, been patched up with an additional budget. But, as I said, when we put this passive money into more active action, I believe that one large part of this adequacy of pay subsidies and employment resources will then have been combed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u497	Mr President! About 60 per cent of the workshops are under the authority of municipalities. Minister Lindström, the Government is currently preparing a change to the Employment Contracts Act, which will almost completely dismantle municipal workshops across Finland. In practice, this means that if, for example, a municipality lay offs a teacher or negotiates with a single employee, municipal workshops would no longer be able to hire jobseekers for pay support work or for work trials. We have already had experience of this a few years ago, Minister, when, for example, the city of Lahti had to abolish the pay subsidies for workshops for some 250 young people. Fortunately, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ihalainen, has corrected this situation and that is where it has been corrected. Now, Minister, you are making changes to this again. I wish you'd come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u498	Mr President! It is understandable that Minister Rehn does not anticipate the Terrafame issue in any way. In any event, since the deadline is the end of the year and we, our section and perhaps the majority of it, will have to take a position on it, like Parliament, even in connection with the budget supplement before the deadline expires, we will have to deal with Terrafame as a key issue and its possible or not possible financial participation in this issue in the course of next year. Minister Lindström certainly understands how the employment of a thousand people, which is now there, will have a dramatic impact on the circumstances that exist in the region of Kainuu. We can't afford to let them go south of there. It's not good for Kainuu. It's not good for him. That is why we are preparing for us to play an active role in the preparation of the whole autumn,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u499	Mr President! I have studied the press releases of Minister Lindström carefully and I am well aware that the model of periodic checks for the unemployed has not yet been fully established, but also that its main points have already been made: the deadline, three months, applies to all the unemployed, the budget that is being set up in this budget, and also the threat of sanctions behind it. I am constantly working with the unemployed, and I have not yet met an unemployed person who would say that I would be the best employed person to visit an official when the ministry is in order. Instead, I have met a lot of unemployed people who have said that it would be awfully nice if I could catch up with that clerk when I have some acute thing I should be asking, or some acute need where I would need help. In two weeks, it might be as good as in three months. For someone, it's only five months from now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u500	Mr President! I would like to start by thanking Minister Lindström and, of course, the entire government for their decision to retire all those over 60 who have been long-term unemployed for at least five years. This is a very important moral hand-out for people whose employment opportunities are regrettably weak, and at the same time it is a decision to release the resources of the employment administration for other purposes. Mr President! This budget also includes a number of solutions to support entrepreneurship. These include, in addition to many other measures, the development of unemployment security for self-employed persons and the lowering of the threshold for hiring the first employee, which Mr Terho has just mentioned. I would like to ask Mr Rehn at what stage these and many other good reforms will be introduced into the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u501	Mr President! I believe that there is a unified view in this Chamber that the aim is to achieve a broad but relatively low tax base and to shift the focus of taxation from taxation on work and business to taxation of harm. I therefore ask whether the government is prepared to consider the larger renovation of the entire system of corporate and tax subsidies. It is not a question of small sums: in 2016, the total amount of tax subsidies was EUR 25.3 billion, of which EUR 16.6 billion was allocated to state tax revenue. However, in all its simplicity, the more disadvantages are taxed and unnecessary business subsidies reduced, the more we can reduce the tax burden on work and business.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u502	Mr President! It is good that the issue of entrepreneurship and employment has now been very strongly raised. In fact, during the first 10 years of this millennium, virtually all new jobs were created by small and medium-sized enterprises. Large companies only employed over 7,000 people in the first 10 years, while SMEs created more than 100,000 jobs. It is good that this growth potential, which is still a great deal, is now being taken advantage of, inter alia, through payment-based VAT, entrepreneurship reduction, the cost of parenting, but we still need bold steps. In the post-Kiky period, it is certainly appropriate to take the local agreement once again into the debate. In this country, we have to rely so much on both workers and employers to be able to resolve these issues, as many others are already able to do in the workplace.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u503	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u504	Mr President! It's pretty viewless. It's pretty black. Growth is dwindling, long-term unemployment is increasing,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u505	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u506	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u507	Mr President! After what Mrs Kiuru has said, it must be said that perhaps it would be worth taking a closer look at the subject of the day. Minister Rehn just told us about the entrepreneurial barometer news that there has been a clear positive spirit for companies. Exports have started to pull, there is clear growth in various sectors of society: construction, metal industry, chemical industry, forest industry in particular. All these positive messages have been produced through active employment measures by Minister Rehn and many other ministers, under the leadership of Prime Minister Sipilä. Minister Lindström has made huge advances here, including in the retirement of people who have been unemployed for a long time. All of this is one of those things we have to invest in and seriously. I cannot understand, for example, what Mr Kontula has said, where an interview every three months is a huge horror. Of course, there's a risk the guy might have to work. However, I believe that we must take it from the point of view that these people must be mobilised and that the measures that are taking place will provide genuine jobs that the government is currently doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u508	Mr President! At least secondary education is the best guarantee of getting a job. The career of young adults who rely on comprehensive school alone will be extended by more than six years when they receive education. These young people without work and education are already more than one in five of our 20-24-year-old men, and the number is on the rise. Minister Lindström, you mentioned youth work and workshop activities looking for youth employment measures. However, these appropriations are falling all the time. We Social Democrats are concerned about what happens to the employment rate of young people when you drive down the Youth Guarantee. Indeed, the Youth Guarantee does not come about without money. And then, Minister Rehn, in order to obtain new export earnings, the enormous economic potential of the pharmaceutical sector should be noticed and taken as a strategic choice for the government. Setting up a drug development centre in Finland would be a good start. Are you going to take action on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u509	Mr President! The opposition sees this as a terrible boogeyman that every three months you have to have an unemployed person interviewed by the Employment Service. I think it is very good that we should take that catch, as the Minister said, for the unemployed. Many people are afraid to look for work themselves, dare not leave home much. Young people after comprehensive school or after vocational school stay home to play games, they cannot apply for a job. Now they feel that they are being cared for. Every three months, they get to talk, they get encouragement, they are encouraged to look for work on their own, not only so that they get jobs there but are trained, taught and encouraged to look for work themselves. I think this is a very good thing. They are made sure that they do not feel marginalised at home. I know many who have been home for years, played games, and then when they have got something through work, they are really good employees, but they have not dared to look for work themselves, and they have not been granted direct access to anything. Such encouragement, encouragement and care are needed even for the long - term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u510	Mr President! I think that the fear factor created by these interviews, which has been covered several times in this debate, would be considerably reduced if the Minister were to tell us whether it is intended to bring a new kind of roughness to bear on these interviews or whether we are already moving forward with the very roughness-centred policy we have at present. It has been said here that people do not accept work. When things like this are heard, I hope that entrepreneurs will then be in contact with the Employment Office, because it is not fair to cut unemployment benefit for all those who desperately seek employment. But in my opinion, if a person refuses to be offered a job that would suit him, then it is quite right to set the threshold and remove that unemployment benefit. But what is the difference between the model of the Ringe and perhaps what is going to happen in the active use of labour market support? If it's still the end-of-the-office instrument, then we'll have a big part to play.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u511	Mr President! I will return to this sector that employs young people. In the tourism sector, accessibility is one of the most important factors in terms of competitiveness. When we consider the potential of Northern Finland to develop and expand the tourism sector in the international market, air transport has become a critical factor, even a barrier to growth. Tourism companies and the entire Northern Finland regional economy are already losing nearly EUR 2 million per year, according to estimates by tour operators, due to these inadequate routes. This is even a certain kind of plug in the growth of tourism. However, with its solutions, the government has created faith in the tourism industry. There is a desire for growth in the tourism sector, there are investment plans, but transport connections are a cause for concern in the north. Mr Minister, are there any measures coming to ensure that tourism destinations in the north are better accessible to international travellers?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u512	I will give the floor to the representatives of Meri and Ihalainen, and then the Ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u513	Mr President! I remember last spring's elections and the public debate at the time: experts and media people updated on television before the parliamentary elections and watched it during the previous parliamentary term and said that we are now at a very low level, that decisions are not being made and that nothing is going to happen. And that is why I am very surprised at what Mr Kiuru has said that this current government is doing nothing. I wonder when you've had the Minister of Labour's briefcase last season and the Minister of Finance's briefcase, why you didn't do these things. Now you tell me that the government is doing nothing and you have all the keys to a solution. Oh, my God, why didn't you use them? You have made 100,000 new unemployed, and now you are telling us that we are doing nothing, even though unemployment has gone downhill and the economy has risen. I don't understand the fact that we're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u514	The name of Mr Kiuru has now been mentioned so many times that Mr Kiuru will be given a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u515	Mr President! I thank you for this opportunity because Mrs Hoskonen gave false testimony to her neighbor’s ability to read. In fact, I recommend that everyone look at this general justification of the state budget proposal, page 9, paragraph 2, the fourth line and its first paragraph, so that only one look at what the government itself estimates about economic growth. I was just quoting this performance of yours. In other respects, Mr President, I tried to say that we agree with the big picture that this employment rate must now be raised, but you stopped all the measures that could genuinely create new opportunities to increase the employment rate. I deeply regret that education is no longer an instrument for raising the employment rate for this government. A few examples: Why do you not acknowledge that we have nearly 100,000 under 30 who depend on primary school? It's unbearable. 200,000 over 30 who depend on primary school.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u516	Mr President! In the last term of government, there would have been probably 200,000 people without work if those measures had not been taken and more than 100,000 people had been kept in education and labour market policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u517	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u518	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u519	Now Minister Rehn, 3 minutes, and Minister Lindström, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u520	Mr President! I will answer the questions I am able to answer in a somewhat vague order. I will start with Mr Juhani's question because he asked the same question twice, and this concerns the future of Terrafame. At this stage, it can be concluded that Terrafame's continuation is conditional on the fact that, first of all, operational activities must be sound in terms of business and environmental sustainability. In addition, private funding must be found for this. Of these, this first condition, i.e. the positive start-up of operational activities, has so far been realised, and I believe that full recognition must be given to the management and staff of the company. As far as private funding is concerned, negotiations are still under way and we will come back to them at the appropriate stage, of course, before Parliament has to take decisions on this matter, so we will soon have to deal with this issue with you as well. Of course, we look at this not only from an environmental point of view but also from the point of view of Kainuu's regional economy and employment. Mr Savio and Mr Terho asked about lowering the threshold for the first employee's salary, which is a very important part of the government's employment programme. This preparation is coming to an end, and we will try to bring the measures into force from the beginning of next year. We have said in the past that it would use either pay subsidies, start-up subsidies or other incentives, and now, in this study, we will specify which of these are the most effective ways of achieving this objective. Mr Heinonen referred to the employment potential of SMEs. It's just like this. Large companies invest largely in productivity in Finland, which is also justifiable. Similarly, SMEs employ, and it is therefore very important that these activities are carried out in the minds of the smallest and small and medium-sized enterprises. Representative Eloranta, the pharmaceutical sector has enormous economic potential, just like that, and that is why we are investing in this field. It should be noted that last week, as a result of the months of negotiations between Tekes and TEM, IBM Watson decided to invest a major centre of expertise in Finland, which will help to strengthen the technology and competence of the pharmaceutical and health sector in Finland. Mrs Parviainen asked about tourism, and we will soon get the proposals from the tourism cooperation group when that group does its own report, and we will then take them forward. In my next speech, I will reply to Mr Ihalainen and Mr Karimäki on business subsidies, many other representatives who have asked about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u521	Mr. Speaker! I will start with the comments of representatives Eloranta and Kiljunen in relation to the workshop activities and then on the other hand, the detective youth work and knowledge programmes and things like this. In my opening speech, I said that it is in this so-called Hetemäki Tripartite Working Group that we have as one measure to promote the employment of young people not in employment and education through a knowledge programme, through outreach youth work and through youth workshops. We are not, therefore, pushing down any social guarantee for young people, but we are developing it and we are still introducing and developing the good practices of the last parliamentary term. So this concern about this is pointless. Mr Kontula then specified what he meant by this mechanical interview. Thank you for this clarification. I myself have thought about it when I've been going around there all over the country, that how this te-office field should be developed, and one of these kind just a practical idea is that instead of having a physical te-office somewhere, those te-office services can be where those people are anyway. For example, I visited Kuopio, and it is very good at the shopping centre. There was a house full of people. Let's go where those people are anyway, so we can get to what you're looking for, that is, when a person has a need to have those services, he can get them there without any kind of bureaucracy. Of course, you may have to wait a bit in line, but this is the idea. We had a pop-up job that visited thousands of people in SuomiAreena. This type of activity needs to be developed. So neither can the te-offices stand in this changing environment nor stand idle, but this side is being developed. Then Mr Kiuru takes note of the fact that the government is somehow inactive. I don't really know how to react to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u522	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u523	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u524	Mr President! With limited use of euros in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, there will be confrontation when funding for research, development and innovation is cut and, on the other hand, this new emissions trading compensation is launched on top of the hundreds of millions of subsidies already in existence. Support systems and energy policy should be coherent and it would be important to support the use of new technologies. In the light of the studies, this is the most effective policy for economic growth and employment. But, Mr President, thank you. The increase in Finnvera's powers is exactly the right direction. It is important that Finnvera replaces market failure and supports risk-taking. At the same time, however, we must remember that it will then be accepted that there may be greater losses than before. And I would also like to thank you for this line to dismantle the incentive traps for enforcement. It is very important and I hope we will have a wider package.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u525	Mr President! Now there are some positive signs in the economy, but I would like to raise one point and ask both ministers: what are we going to do about the Arctic? Finland is about to be the presidency of the Arctic Council, and this is a specific momentum. Are we active and concrete? Paavo Lipponen has done an excellent job in clarifying this matter. The investment potential is many times higher than the Finnish budget. It is not just the speeches that help here, but the way in which this work is organised, that support is given to companies to apply there. Currently, Finnish companies are almost marginal. Now we should really look at the map in such a way that the north is down and the south is up. That is how the potential for economic activity currently lies in the Arctic. Is this especially the responsibility of someone on the board? It can't just be in the left side pocket. It's kind of a big deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u526	Mr President! With regard to the exploitation of the Arctic, I would point out that in order to curb climate change, about four thirds of known oil resources, including Arctic oil and other fossil resources, should be kept on the ground. Minister Rehn mainly referred to VATT's analysis of whether or not there was a so-called carbon leakage as a literature report. I read the government's proposal on this so-called emissions trading compensation as best I could, and you could say the same thing about it. I did not find any proper justification for why, on what basis, there really would be this carbon leakage and why this new aid on top of the former ones would be justified. Several colleagues have mentioned China.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u527	Mr President! This is the way oatmeals and wolverines get mixed up that we are talking about carbon leakage and the risk of carbon leakage. Now that it is justified here in this Chamber by the VATT study that compensation is good, I consider this more to be the personal opinion of this Marita Laukkanen, which she has given to the Helsingin Sanomat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u528	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u529	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u530	Mr President! First of all, Minister Rehn has a very short question: do you think that the possibilities of photonics in Finland have been understood at the moment? But what I am saying in actual fact is about the mid-term labour market or, as some people are sorry to say here, the trick job, which, in my opinion, is a little ugly to say about this good practice. The idea of the intermediate labour market is that they act as a transition between difficult unemployment and open labour markets, and for some they may even be a permanent option. At present, employment policy is expected to be the result of employment in the open labour market, and unfortunately not all of the current labour productivity expectations will be able to move to it. That is why I ask: should the indicators of the effectiveness of employment in the Ministry be slightly reformed so that effectiveness can also be a part of society, the management of living? On the other hand, work on the intermediate labour market is also important for society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u531	Mr President! In several speeches, this compensatory aid for indirect costs of emissions trading has come, and in order to achieve the level of concrete employment, I ask Minister Lindström: do you know the case from Pirkanmaa, Valkeakoski, where two weeks ago the paper machine was shut down and dismantled and next year the same paper machine will be launched in Sweden? For example, under this very situation, could more than 30 jobs have been saved if this aid had come earlier? Of course I understand that this is a detail and it is quite impossible for the Minister to know all the details, but I personally believe that this is a step in the right direction. If we do not stick to these basic jobs, then, in a way, the benefits that can be derived from these new ones, as if they are melting when that basic condition disappears. Finland still lives from chemistry, paper, forest, metal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u532	Mr President! I too would like to comment on this industrial debate which has taken place in the Chamber today. Regrettably old-fashioned idea exists for many representatives of domestic industry and environmental standards, environmental technologies, what is being done there — it is the world's top. And, in fact, while our industry produces these basic industrial products, which we then sell for export, there is also a very high level of development, for example, in the circular economy. Today, Sitra has taken one of the leading projects of the Arctic industry, such as the attempt of the Outokumpu steel factory to collect all possible scrap metals into its factory, remelt them and sell them as stainless steel to the world. This is one of the circular economy projects and, in my opinion, it does not sound quite reactionary. As a result, it is justified that we too should be compensated for emissions trading, because our main competitors also have it, and this is related precisely to the problem of company subsidies, that if others do, then we must do this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u533	Mr President! Of course, Minister Rehn, one of the biggest challenges facing industry is how we are a little ahead of others. And from this point of view, I am concerned about the different new business models and production methods that I cannot find in this budget and which I cannot find in our regulatory work at the moment either. We lack a central regulatory environment for new business models such as the sharing economy and the platform economy. We lack a simple support system for mini-electric power plants. The digitisation of our public information resources is progressing, but is progressing in very uncertain steps and slowly. They're all doing something to them, but I'm afraid we're going to do something to them a few years late when others have, in a way, already shown the way and taken the key markets. I would be happy to hear what is to be said, which would reassure me of this concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u534	Mr President! I would like to say to Minister Lindström that I was very pleased with his reply that you are interrupting the preparation of this employment contract law which is now being prepared in the Ministry. When the National Workshop Association conducted a survey of these fair 230 workshop associations across Finland on what this would mean in practice for these municipal workshops, how they would be able to employ in the future if this employment contract law were being prepared, the answer came from there that about half of these municipalities were planning either layoffs or follow-up negotiations, which in practice would mean that these workshops would no longer be able to employ young people and will not be subject to work trials. In that sense, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply that the preparation of this employment contract law is now being corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u535	Mr President! There are really positive signs in the economy. On the west coast, the shipbuilding industry in Turku, Rauma, also in Vaasa, the energy industry, the car factory in New Town may be very significant in terms of employment. It seems obvious now that there will be a training problem, that access to the labour force in the shipbuilding industry will not be met, for example, because the training of a master's engineer is not in the Turku and Rauma regions. Would it now be possible to cooperate actively with the Ministry of Education and Culture and to look at this training also in the light of whether it would be possible to act flexibly in such a way that the availability of education in this situation would be good enough to allow Finland to rise now that the trade and storage are changing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u536	Let me give the following answers: Lehto, Heinonen and Lindtman. Then the ministers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u537	Mr President! I'd like to go back to that Lex Lindström for a while. Then you're free to choose if you want to go, but I think you want to retire there. I made small calculations about a 60-year-old living, living, living, living, living, living, living, living. So if it has now been on labour market support and it retires and if it is a pension equal to that guaranteed pension, then it will increase by about 60. On the other hand, on the other hand, it pays 20% tax on labour market support, virtually zero tax on guarantee pension, which means that its income is already rising by a couple of hundred euros at hand, plus then it is covered by the pensioner's housing allowance, and on the other hand it is increasing. So now, for the long-term unemployed, more money is left in the hands of more than 200 euros a month. It can be said that this is a real hand-out for this long-term unemployed, and then the opposition claims that the government does not think of any of these low-income ones. A very large 40% increase in income for such individuals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u538	Mr President! The representative Krista Kiuru, who has already left the hall, was so upset and accused these brothers in that box that they have been very inactive. However, I must now correct the Minutes, although I cannot correct Mr Kiuru: Statistics Finland said that the unemployment rate in August was 7.2 per cent, so it had fallen by one percentage point from one year ago. The number of unemployed persons was now 28,000 lower than one year ago, while the number of employed persons was 27,000 higher. In addition, more than 51,000 new vacancies were reported to TE Offices during August, which is nearly 14,000 more than in August of the year before, and in August the total number of TE Offices was nearly 83,000, more than 16,000 more than one year ago. OP economists said yesterday that employment increased, unemployment fell, the number of job vacancies increased, and what a great thing, including the unemployment rate for young people aged 15 to 24.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u539	Mr President! We all hope that employment will rise sharply. I don't want to be a party pooper right now, but Krista. Kiuru said the fact of the state budget: growth will slow down next year. And then as far as these employment figures are concerned, Mr Heinonen, take a look at the trend in employment there. We are practically at the level of September last year. And Mrs Filatov has already told us that the change in unemployment is, in fact, exactly the same as the one that has taken place in the field of active measures. And it is good that the government took a new position and gave up this trick-job rhetoric of the Coalition. However, Mr President, Mr Filatov and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen have raised a very important issue here. There are different paths to work. Now I ask: how do you intend to tackle the problem of confrontation? Here, too, we have made a constructive proposal. Could self-training for the unemployed be facilitated? It would also provide an answer to Mr Ala-Nissilä's question. Tarja Filatov, Chairman of the Committee on Labour, has taken a strong stance on it today, among other things. Minister Lindström, when are we going to hear good news about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u540	Secretary Rehn, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u541	Mr President! First of all, I think that Mr Heinonen has drawn the right point. Our employment rate is now 69.9% according to the latest statistics. When, a week or two ago, I went to Brussels and some other places to give presentations, I said 68.5%. In other words, there is a clear improvement in this situation in the light of these concrete statistics. Mr Sarkkinen thanked Mr Finnvera for increasing his export credits. I appreciate you saying this. This is actually a positive problem for us in a way, because exports have started to be drawn up in shipbuilding, and other sectors, which are often important in this field, are not only shipping and shipbuilding, but also telecommunications networks and the forestry industry. It is important that the financing of exports does not become a bottleneck, and that is why these export guarantees were extended with awareness of the risks involved. Representative Ala-Nissilä called for cooperation in the field of education in the development of Southwest Finland, Satakunta industry. I agree, and we work with the Ministry of Education and Culture in this field. Representative Tölli asked what to do about the Arctic. I agree that the Lipponen report was a very important opening in this respect, and the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister are taking the lead. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is, of course, responsible for preparing transport projects and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for questions related to industrial policy. We aim to promote Finnish companies’ access to Arctic projects through growth programmes and assess how we can better involve Finnish companies in these Arctic growth programmes. Representatives Hassi, Vartia and Karimäki asked about this emissions trading compensation for a new time. I would like to say that the energy tax cutter was indeed decided by the last government, the current opposition parties, and that is precisely what VATT has criticised. I quote from the start of the VATT study: "The energy taxation of Finland was tightened in 2011. However, the taxation of energy-intensive industries was already facilitated in 2012 in order to ensure competitiveness. More than ten times the number of companies eligible for energy tax refunds. At the same time, the value of the returns paid increased from just under EUR 10 million to over EUR 200 million."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u542	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u543	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u544	Then Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u545	Mr. Speaker! Let us start with Mr Lindtman's question, this problem of encounters. Personally, I have identified two major problems: one related to housing, the price of living, the other related to mobility and the price of mobility. As far as housing is concerned, the government has just decided in its decisions to support employment on a number of measures to promote housing and, among other things, to improve the correct targeting of these ARA-subsidised dwellings at the monthly income threshold of EUR 3000. There are therefore many other measures. As far as this movement is concerned, I also said in my opening speech that this mid-term review will include measures to promote labour mobility. In other words, this has been identified and, of course, the opposition's proposals are also welcome in order to solve this problem of confrontation. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen: how do I deal with the intermediate labour market? I have a very constructive view of them and I attach great importance to them. But as the name says, the 'interim labour market', I have understood it as a journey to something and that journey is there for the open labour market. But everyone knows that not everyone will ever be in those open labour markets again. Even I know that. And so with regard to this question as to whether these indicators should somehow be re-evaluated, I am open to this presentation, because when we know that not everyone will be employed in that open labour market, but they can somehow be involved in this society, this is certainly something that needs to be studied, and let us say that I am going to show my thumb up to this idea. Representative Pauli Kiuru, this Tervasaari, which was previously owned by UPM and went to such a Swedish owner, is of course a sad story in the sense that the machine will be dismantled and then restarted on the Swedish side, and that is, of course, unfortunate. When we have long had this kind of tool for sudden structural change, then we have come in a way at the point when the fire is already on, and we have wondered how we could preempt these things. I do not know, when I do not know all the details of this case, whether there could have been any role for the state, i.e. through a proactive structural change. I don't know how to judge it. But these are just the kind of cases where we could think about it. In fact, this kind of precedent was, in a way, this maritime industry situation, where we went to the rescue and rescued this kind of industry. I don't know if that would have helped. Finally, Mr President, Mr Kiljunen: the preparation of the employment contract law continues, as I said, but I also said that the workshops for young people are in the toolbox.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u546	Then we move on to environmental issues and first Minister of the Environment Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u547	Mr President! The Government's proposal for the 2017 budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment is approximately EUR 180 million. The Ministry of the Environment is therefore the smallest administrative sector in terms of appropriations, and this is a significant reduction compared to the current year due to the abolition of a one-off transfer of Metsähallitus public administrative expenditure from the budget. The operating costs of the heart rate have decreased, and the investment appropriations for vessels are also lower than last year, even though good vessel investments are expected. An amount of EUR 92.1 million is proposed for environmental and nature conservation expenditure, EUR 25.7 million for the use of areas, housing and construction, and then EUR 62.3 million for operating expenditure in the administrative sector. In addition to what has just been mentioned outside the budget, the State Housing Fund is estimated to spend EUR 169 million on housing grants and EUR 11 million on interest subsidies. In addition, the State Housing Fund will be charged EUR 26.5 million to the budget. The state of the Baltic Sea and inland waters will be improved by reducing water loads. We are implementing the plans for water and sea management approved last autumn. Environmental protection also invests in the rehabilitation of contaminated land. For these purposes, the promotion of environmental protection and the protection of the Baltic Sea waters, a total of over EUR 20 million has been earmarked. Keep Archipelago Cleansy’s purchase of vessels will receive EUR 500000, which was discussed here in Parliament last autumn, so it is now included in that budget. Similarly, it must be mentioned that the marine exploration vessel Aranda will be renovated over the next three years with a substantial amount of money, and it will of course improve our ability to maintain a stable knowledge base in relation to improving the condition of the Baltic Sea. The Forest Biodiversity Programme for Southern Finland Metso, which has been a well-functioning tool for securing biodiversity, continues to be implemented. The implementation of the Natura 2000 network and the previously decided nature conservation programmes will continue. There is now also a consultation on new Natura sites related to the protection of marine nature, where submerged sulphurs and reefs and sands are presented under Natura. 8 million is available for the acquisition of forest areas under the Metso programme. It is less than it was before, it certainly has shortcomings in Parliament's opinion, and I would not mind at all if Parliament were able to allocate more money to this. However, it is noted that all these euro-areas will thus be able to acquire more protected areas next year, even though the pace is slowing down compared to the previous one. The public administration tasks of Metsähallitus are proposed to the tune of 30 million, some of which will be used to establish, among other things, the National Park for the centenary of Finland’s independence in Hossa. Environmental management also has a role to play in implementing the key projects of clean bioeconomy and circular economy solutions, which, of course, have been budgeted. Then, on the subject of housing policy, I would like to say that these various granting powers for subsidised housing are now being brought together, i.e. there is a short interest subsidy, a 40-year interest subsidy and support for right-of-occupancy housing without such artificial constraints, and any of these forms of subsidised housing are being drawn together, and there is more than 1.4 billion of this subsidy. The interest rate on long-term interest subsidies will be reduced to 1.7%. This makes the production of long-term interest rate subsidies attractive; it is cheaper for interest than short-term interest rate subsidies. The authorisation to grant investment grants for special groups will be increased by 10 million compared to this year, rising to 130 million. Renovation grants, including retrofitting of lifts, EUR 35 million All in all, these measures will ensure that the objectives of the construction of land use, housing and transport contracts between the state and the various urban areas are met by the State.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u548	Now is the time to ask for answers. Mr Hassi will begin the replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u549	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. To the brickman for the introduction. First of all, I would like to see the Minister: Mr Tiilikainen would answer the question I asked about the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, as it relates both to agriculture and forestry and to the environment. In government planning and rhetoric, the bioeconomy is one of the key issues. In order for the Finnish bioeconomy to succeed, it must be sustainable and reputable. How does it fit in with the fact that Metsähallitus is beating up the nesting grounds of a union squirrel? As far as this budget is concerned, the government has already made the most dramatic cuts in the budget for the current year, precisely in terms of environmental protection and nature conservation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u550	Mr President! Housing construction is being invested in, thanks to the government and Minister Tiilikainen. In fact, construction is currently acting as some sort of small economic buser or locomotive, and in that sense it is also very important. We have chronic housing shortages, especially in the capital region, and also the need for construction across the country, and it is good that efforts are being made to speed up complaints and others, at least to deal with them. It is also positive that, for the first time in this country, an agreement on land use, transport and housing was also concluded on the growth corridors, most important of all, of course, Helsinki-Hämeenlinna-Tampere. Mr President! I would like to point out the positive point that we raised in the section: this is an important thank you for keeping Archipelago Clean, which manages the entire archipelago's waste management. And then a little concern: I personally hope that if money is still available, Metso money will be something that is important to preserve our forest biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u551	Mr President! One of the central priorities of the Government is to increase and promote wood construction. It has been found that the number of trees needed to build a medium-sized wooden block in Finland’s forests will increase in about half a minute. The increase in wood construction has many other beneficial effects. You can talk about a healthier living environment or working environment, indoor air is often better. In addition, wood construction also has good regional economic effects. I think that whenever public money is spent on construction, whether it is about municipalities or ARAs, we should think about how we can promote the construction of wood. I would therefore ask the Minister what measures he intends to take in the spirit of the Government Programme to promote the construction of wood and its promotion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u552	Mr President! Yesterday I was already trying to find out about the flow of money in housing, but now there is a real minister here. Last season, Minister of Housing Kiuru quickly promised affordable rental housing, but the actions remained to be discussed — or the money went elsewhere. The letter I received at the time states this: 'Mr Kiuru has tried to restrict the legal rights of some companies and operators by taking the initiative to promote the policies adopted by his party in order to put certain service operators in a position of inequality in the granting of social aid. The Minister has said that, according to the spirit of the law, certain actors should be excluded from state aid." Mr Tiilikainen, is there any link between the actions of the previous minister and the fact that the ARA is now investigating:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u553	Mr President! Everyone has thanked Metso for its voluntary forest protection programme, as well as the Minister in his opening speech. Metso has achieved a protected area without conflict. Unfortunately, the acquisition and replacement costs of nature reserves and Metso funding are also at the same level as next year, which is very regrettable. I'd like to ask you: How can the budgetary objective of halting biodiversity depletion and improving the protection of endangered species be achieved in this situation? Are these things synchronized with each other? I would like to ask the Minister how to promote energy efficiency renovations for old housing companies. Are there any measures in the budget, because perhaps there is the greatest energy efficiency potential in housing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u554	Mr President! The 100th anniversary of the Finnish centenary was a national park in Hossa, and the funding of EUR 2.5 million to improve this national park is a great thing. But I am also very concerned about Metsähallitus' ability to maintain and manage other hiking sites. I have received a message from various parts of Finland that the existing hiking areas are collapsing and many islands, hiking areas are waiting for the rehabilitation money. What can we do about this? I, too, would like to say a few words about cormorants and seals. Minister, you have explained the situation of seal and cormorants. What measures have now been taken to reduce the stocks of cormorants and seals?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u555	Mr President! Finnish nature conservation policy and the safeguarding of biodiversity have had a few key cornerstones. I would like to acknowledge that, despite this one cornerstone of pressure within the government — I do not know from which party or from which direction they came — you held onto the law on protection. But, Mr President, the second cornerstone is indeed this Metso programme, and it seems that in this spending limits period there will be no more left. This is extremely important in order to safeguard biodiversity here in southern Finland. I know the minister is kind of a nature person in his heart, but I'm like, "Can't we do something about this?" The messages that come from both the forest industry and then from the nature conservation sector say that there is even a threat to forest peace. How do you comment on this concern of the forest industry?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u556	Mr President! First of all, thank you also for this national park decision. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister: do you have any insight, any idea of the impact of the future national park on employment? I understand that national parks are also good in economic terms, in terms of employment. And are there any other national parks projects since then that might be in the pipeline? Metso funding was very much discussed in the Environment Committee last year and the Minister's wish will certainly be taken into account this year. Last year, the sewers got ahead of us. There were three unfinished projects that were wanted to be completed, and they were completed, I understand. Is it true that they are now graduating, as promised? Thank you also for this acquisition of the Archipelago Clean. That too was mentioned last year. The money wasn't enough, but now we got it right. The matter of Metso will be referred back to committee, and I believe that there will certainly be good cooperation on its behalf.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u557	Mr President! The question is: is the government still committed to halting biodiversity loss by 2020? This is because this year, 2016, the budget for nature conservation has been cut by 60%. And even though the forest industry, several forestry and environmental organisations found each other, made a joint appeal to preserve Metso funds, they were left with only traces. The second question: is the Minister aware that Metsähallitus is an open-cut forest of over 170 years of age in Leipimäki, which is a habitat of many endangered species and a forest of high conservation value? This is probably not the sustainable bioeconomy. How do you answer this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u558	Mr President! Last week, representatives of the Small House Industries Association visited us here in Parliament, and they expressed concern that house building is now quieter because banks demand very secure guarantees, and there is no self-financing and guarantees for loans. They put forward a proposal that the State should provide a guarantee for these projects, promised that 1500 homes, detached houses, would be built and would be provided if a guarantee of up to EUR 80000 or no more than 30% were provided by the State. This would therefore have a positive impact on employment, less than 1000 jobs would, I think, be created, and there would be no risk for the State, since the State could take a counter-guarantee on that property and then receive a guarantee fee of 2.5%. Is the Minister aware of this and can we move forward on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u559	Let's take the minister here, three minutes. After that, we'll continue our debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u560	President! Representative Hassi inquired about the fellings of Metsähallitus as well as representative Aalto. In fact, in that felling area, which has now been the subject of public controversy, the authority of the Ely Centre has been in the process of demarcating the territory of that union squirrel, and of course Metsähallitus does not enter that area. And now that it is known that there may be more of these observations in that area, a person authorized by the Ely Centre has today visited the situation and will make decisions tomorrow. So it's open. But as has been said, Metsähallitus has not made those fellings from the ely centre, a valuable area. Many of you were worried about Metso money and, as I said myself, it is scarce. I know this Metso programme very well because I have been preparing it in different twists and it was a pleasure to be able to decide on the launch of the Metso programme in autumn 2007. However, I note that even though those appropriations are now decreasing on an annual basis, in any case Metso's implementation will continue and every million that is spent on it will bring more areas into the scope of protection, even though the pace of implementation is slowing down. What is more, we have also launched — when everyone is aware of this situation — that nature conservation funds, like all other resources, have been quite scarcely distributed here — such a round table with the operators in the sector on how to better safeguard biodiversity in those economic forests, which is the majority of our area. Environmental organisations, industry, forest owners and other actors in the sector are involved in this work. This work will continue, and I am sure that both industry and environmental organisations and forest owners will come forward with their own proposals on how to promote this diversity now, even though the budget is scarce. So we can work together, even if there's a little money. Of these cash flows in construction, housing, what Mr Mölsä asked about, I would just say that in the period 2011-2015 the level of housing construction decreased by 30%. Now it has turned to the rise, about half of that deficit has been recovered.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u561	Mr President! During this term of government, several laws have been adopted to facilitate planning and the construction of dwellings and premises. This is a very good thing, because the construction sector employs a lot of Finns both directly and indirectly. It is good to continue the well-started dismantling of standards and red tape next year too, and I hope that the Minister will focus on this without prejudice, because more affordable rental housing is needed, particularly here in the capital region. In next year's budget, I would particularly like to thank you for supporting the construction and repair of apartments for special groups with an investment grant of EUR 130 million. Similarly, there will be an increase of 10 million in compensation grants. These euros will support the construction of lifts and older people and people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u562	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen said that every million dollars spent on Metso will go to the acquisition of nature reserves. The only regret is that the pace is far too slow. We're on the sixth extinction wave. We are losing rare species: spruce forests, decayed trees. Beautiful diverse nature is a truly valuable heritage for our children, and that is why it is so important to raise the budget for nature conservation areas to at least the level of 2015. But I would like to thank the Minister for Keeping Archipelago Clean and for repairing Aranda. It is important for the protection of the Baltic Sea. And in the Baltic, I would like to ask you what the situation is with the Velmu programme. After all, this Velmu programme explores these valuable natural areas of the Baltic Sea base, and this programme is to be welcomed and pursued. Has funding been secured for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u563	Mr President! Looking at these, for example, how housing subsidies have increased from last year to this year, they have risen from 1.7 billion to 1.9 billion. Then, if you look at the longer term, the housing subsidies paid have increased by almost 100 per cent in the 2000s, by over 90 per cent, while at the same time the housing rent index shows that the rents have risen by about 50 to over 100 per cent. I would now like to ask the Minister whether the government is coming up with new ideas on how to curb the excessive rise in rents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u564	Mr President! I, too, still enjoy that Hossa, and I am pleased to bring thanks to the entrepreneurs of Hossa for this project. There in Hossa we are now doing things: the number of visitors has increased considerably this year, and it has been observed that nature tourism is also of international interest. The only one that's a bit of a bottleneck is, of course, traffic in Hossa. Much has happened there in Hossa: there is a refurbishment of the viewing platform of the Color Rocks, a building of lava, bridges, and other service equipment. In other words, this park decision has in fact produced a lot of good results, namely that tourism entrepreneurs in the region have made their own development projects, which means that the EUR 2.5 million has increased enormously since then locally. I share Mr Vehkaperä's concern about the condition of the structures of the expedition sites of Metsähallitus. An example of a wilderness farm near Hossa is Närängä, where the leading tall trees need to be
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u565	Mr President! Mr Karimäki said what I was going to say about Finland's international commitments in relation to biodiversity loss. Similarly, I had thought, as he did, to thank me for this purchase of the vessel. However, with regard to the purchase of vessels, I would have said that the rest of the funds for environmental organisations will be reduced. In other words, the cutting line continues, which is regrettable because it undermines the information and awareness-raising work they have done. But this whole union squirrel thing, I'd come back. You, Minister Tiilikainen, have now appealed to Metsähallitus to rely on the information received from the Ely Centre. Under your leadership, a law has already been prepared which removes the obligation of the Ely Centres to inform the forest owner of where the union squirrels are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u566	Mr President! It is considered agreed that Metso funds will be increased as soon as the economy allows. I'm sure it's pretty much a common will. And for that purpose of dismantling and facilitating the regulation of construction: yes, I am encouraging at least a firm approach from the coalition forces to take the government's records forward. Personally, I think that when an animal needs to be protected, everything must be done for it. Such an animal is, for example, a noose. But then we have animals — cormorants, females — that are also causing significant damage today. I would like to ask you, when you are not only the Minister for the Environment, but also the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, what kind of measures could be considered, for example, in order to moderate the stock of sandeel. It is already causing significant damage to buildings and bales, for example. And for burning horse manure, I'd like to know a little bit. Where's it going?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u567	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for your decision to continue the wolf's fishing stock. It is a very important decision for those living in the border area — those living there with wolves. But the government is in its budget to reduce compensation for the damage caused by large predators. Compensation for damage caused by large predators will not be paid until one year after the event, if the budget has been able to prepare for it. In other words, it is possible to obtain compensation if it is prepared. It is the farmer, the honey producer and the reindeer man who is involved in the business. Hunting dog hobby is also valuable. According to what I've been told, even last year's damage hasn't been paid more than half. It would be desirable for the government budget to be able to provide adequate funding for the compensation of large predators, for years of experience, and the damage is increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u568	Representative Pakkanen, followed by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u569	Mr President! Representative Honkonen brought up wood construction in public procurements when schools and day care centres are being made. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are now any legal obstacles to the possibility of this wood construction in the spirit of red tape dismantling, because it has a significant employment impact in Finland. There has been a lot of talk about the Metso project here. I would like to draw particular attention to Mr Vehkaperä's cormorants project. In other words, these bird populations, including the walrus, and I would like to add a white-cheese goose to that: is there anything we can do to eliminate these handicaps in order to add them to a significant stock?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u570	Then the minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u571	President! I'll start with this wood construction that I just missed out on. Representatives Honkonen and Frost asked about it. The Government aims to promote wood construction. We're going through the regulations. If there are harmful regulations for wood, they will be changed, a tree on the same line as other materials. Almost zero-energy regulations ensure that log construction will continue to be possible. This topic will be promoted by all ministers in cooperation with this kind of special wood promoter, or what porridge engine it now was, i.e. in any case the work of promoting wood construction continues and the aim is to make it also on the block of flats grow. With regard to the dismantling of Bureaucracy: Reform of the Land Use and Construction Act is under preparation. It will bring relief in this area, and of course other related issues have already been done and are under way, and more ideas will be received. Thank you for that. From the point of view of the protection of the Baltic Sea: Thank you for your thanks for these vessel purchases. That Velmu programme, which Mr Karimäki asked about, continues. It has, in fact, received significant information. Next year's focus will also be on the processing of this information and, as it were, on its usefulness, and this knowledge is based on the fact that we have now been able to move forward with these Natura site complements for marine nature. As regards controlling the rise in rents, Mr Lehto asked, and there are in fact a number of measures which have already been adopted by Parliament, legislative proposals. Limiting the potential interest rate on equity that can be collected from tenants, restricting the preparation for repairs, tendering for the maintenance of the property. Such obligations have come, but of course this applies only to the state-subsidised production. In practice, the price of housing is determined by market demand and supply, and the only way to prevent a sharp rise in prices is to increase construction where there is a shortage of housing. This is the government's top project, and these actions are aimed precisely at increasing construction. Here already, representatives of Kiuru, Parviainen and Vehkaperä pointed out that these national parks and nature reserves have employment effects, provided that the service equipment is in order. Well, I'm sure there are shortcomings, but I have to say that this year actually throughout the line of tourism in national parks, nature tourism anyway, has increased and will bring euros. For example: Hossa has gone significantly upwards, although the national park is not even open yet. In other words, these employment effects will be realised. Of course I hope we can keep things in order. With regard to the cormorants, Mr President, if I may say one more sentence, because many people asked: Let us take, for example, the largest column in Finland in Merikarvia, where in 2015 4,000 pairs were washed and in 2016 zero pairs were allowed to be harassed by this kind of harassment where the damage and damage are great. The Ely Centres have been instructed to issue these harassment and expulsion permits more effectively on the basis of the guidelines of the working group that sat last winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u572	Mr President! Now about this nature conservation, about the very important protection of biodiversity on a rather more everyday matter. Although this is the section of the Ministry of the Environment, I will still bring up the word 'incentive trap' and bureaucracy. One unfortunate decision in the budget debate was that you announced that in future you will start to check the income of the tenant in the new ARA rental contracts. Once the government has taken red tape as one of the top projects and talked about dismantling the incentive traps, this brings in a new bureaucratic system and, above all, a new incentive trap. If the shift manager wants to move forward, if you lose an apartment, it will be a new incentive trap. You promised me a year ago you'd re-evaluate this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u573	Mr President! I will return to this Metso programme. As far as I am concerned, it is very important that, now that we have the objective of significantly increasing the use of wood, a balanced effort should also be made to ensure that biodiversity is preserved, and for the same reason I am concerned about the financing of the Metso programme. I would like to ask the Minister a question: now that the Metso Programme has also had such temporary protection agreements, would it not be advisable to transfer money to those permanent protection agreements within the Metso Programme during these limited appropriations? I understand that there have also been small sums of money in these interim agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u574	Mr President! I'm gonna ask the minister some housing questions. The dream of affordable housing is getting further and further away from more and more Finns. And in this regard, I would like to ask Mr Tiilikainen: what could these measures be? What do you think, for example, of abolishing the tax on transfers of funds in connection with the sale of housing, or if regional planning could be increased in growth centres, environmental municipalities? Would these perhaps be such measures? Or the entire housing allowance system — is there perhaps something to be renovated? What are your top 3 means to make affordable housing a right for everyone throughout Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u575	Mr President! The Minister did not have time to answer my question about this motion from the Small House Industry on this issue of guarantees. Indeed, it would, according to their insurance, have 4500 homes in three years and families would have an apartment where there might be a job. In other words, it would have very much positive effects. Are you familiar with it and see if you can take it forward? Mr Mölsä then raised this case of VVO. You said it was something you needed to find out. However, I would like to ask whether, when this is an extremely unfortunate, even embarrassing case, which we have had before us, are there any measures in preparation to prevent such a procedure, the fact that housing subsidies and people's rents, even the money for repairs, go with the trade for a completely different purpose than they were originally intended and intended for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u576	Mr President! Mr Lindtman raised an important point here: these periodic income adjustments for ARA dwellings, which are now to be introduced. There is a great risk that this will create incentives traps and, on the other hand, segregation in housing. I would like to ask the Minister: are we — if it turns out that these threats are true — prepared to look at them in the future? But I would also like to thank the government for this Hossa National Park and I would like to ask about this Porkkala, who was in second place in this national park search: do you see that in the coming years there will be a possibility of setting up Porkkala National Park? And I would also like to ask the Minister about climate finance. I haven't found it in that budget book. What is the level of climate finance next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u577	Mr President! Mr Lindtman raised this issue of the ARA income limit, as did Mr Sarkkinen. Should we now, Mr Lindtman, be interpreted as allowing the Minister, for example, to continue living at the ARA, while at the same time there is a person waiting in line for the cleaning lady or the cashier of the store? The committee has already heard a little about this, about segregation. I suppose it is true that when the wage level rises and if the limit is EUR 3000 and two persons, whether it was EUR 5500 or not, then it is natural to try to move on to, for example, a shared-ownership dwelling or an owner-occupied dwelling. The idea of a EUR 3000 segregation limit may seem to be an over-measured cautious approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u578	Mr President! Living in the capital region is painfully expensive, and I would like the government to pay more attention to how our infrastructure and housing construction go hand in hand, but also to how our public transport works in this equation. For example, I live in Hämeenlinna and we have a radical decline in the stopping of trains. Riihimäki and Hämeenlinna are areas where a lot of work has been done in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and, as it were, buffered on the fact that not everyone is running here but lives where housing is better available. Now, if this kind of thinking disappears from housing policy, we are actually building Finland many times and congesting it in vain. The other side, which relates to these problems of moisture and mould: this would certainly be a place for one big review, because I dare say that the investments made on the public side, for example, to repair mold buildings and schools, will be saved in health care and disability pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u579	Mr President! When discussing nature conservation and safeguarding biodiversity, it is good to remember that Finland is already the most protected country in the European Union. That is why I hope that these future protection measures will go forward on a voluntary basis, and this Metso programme, mentioned by Mr Honkonen in particular, will be very important in this respect. At the same time, it is important to remember that it is important to secure funding for these existing national parks so that they can take care of these structures. Well, that's it. I would now like to thank the Minister and the whole government at this stage for the excellent decision you made on the protection law. It is important that this law should not be opened up — for which you will be commended by future generations, and also by migratory stocks if they were able to do so. I would have asked the Minister: what measures is the government planning to take to promote the vitality of migratory fish stocks?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u580	Mr President! The unfortunate fact is that agriculture causes pollution and also reduces the condition of the waters. In South Karelia, this issue has been addressed, among other things, by the fact that the waters of Pien-Saima have been cleaned through various projects. Among other things, guidance and advice has been given to farmers who have come under this advice, and it has been positive that everyone to whom it has been offered has come and has also taken various measures and has been able to clean water. In addition to this, waste water advice should be provided, and more resources are now needed when the law is changing. However, the resources of environmental management are now reasonably small, and these jobs can no longer be carried out. The beaches are littering, and the hiking trails are decaying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u581	Mr President! I will return to reindeer husbandry and related problems. These predatory damage at the eastern border and there, especially at the southern edge of the reindeer herding area, are of constant concern to reindeermen, and indeed, as has been mentioned, compensation is very slow, painfully slow. However, I would like to raise one positive point from the budget: the construction and maintenance of reindeer shears at the national borders of reindeer husbandry agreements. For years the budget has been the same, and there have been major problems, and now the budget is improving. So now thank you to the Minister for having now heard the concerns of the reindeermen in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u582	Mr President! I will return a little more to the compensation for major fraud, as Mrs Parviainen has just mentioned. It is unreasonable for fraud to be paid with a one-year delay, because it could be done more quickly, including by cutting red tape. At the moment, the injured person must first report to the rural authority of his municipality of residence, in which case the data will be recorded in the register of game damage maintained by the Rural Development Agency. I believe that this authority can be overtaken by the fact that the injured party would report the game damage register itself. After that, an expert from the game management association will check the damage and at the same time mark the large-scale game detection system. This, of course, requires a new way of thinking and working on the matter, but in this way we can get the reports of fraud in real time and speed up the payment of compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u583	Mr President! There have been many speeches here about the price and the cost of living or living, but these are actually two different things: housing and housing. It must be remembered that the price of the dwelling depends, firstly, on the price of the property, the formula regulations, the design, the materials and the construction itself. Of course, the ministry and the minister can play their part in some of these matters, and some will also, a very large part, of the municipalities that will be decided upon. And I hope those messages go to those municipalities as well. It is precisely in this area that bureaucracy and standards are being dismantled, to take it forward. I hope that the Minister will take this forward. Mr Aalto then raised the issue here of reviewing the whole of this housing allowance system. I sincerely hope that this will be achieved and checked. It is too complicated at the moment, and not everyone even knows what it contains.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u584	Mr President! Several representatives have talked about housing and also about the rapid increase in the cost of the housing allowance system: in just over five years the cost of general housing allowance has approximately doubled. And there has also been mention of VVO’s huge profits, which you can say that a large part consists of housing aid paid by society. I, too, would be interested in what is planned at the Ministry of the Environment in order to prevent tax-paid housing subsidies from falling into excess profits. I am pleased to agree with Mr Kärnä on the protection law, but I would also like to say that this government's unfortunate line of cutting research appropriations is also reflected in environmental protection, where the Finnish Environment Agency's research appropriations are also shown.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u585	And then there are the replies to Mr Honkonen and Mr Lindtman and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u586	Mr President! A lot has been said about nectars here, much has been said about the Metso programme, and Mr Vehkaperä brought up these cormorants, but I am still raising the nectar, which is a provincial bird of my beloved country of Central Finland. We are very concerned in Central Finland because the forest stocks have been very low in recent years, and so this year due to the cold and rainy early summer, the forest nest failed. After all, progress has been made in Central Finland, where different parties in Metso Parliament, forest owners, forest industry, forest management associations, have sought ways to revive this land bird's stock. I would like to ask the Minister whether there could be something, perhaps routes for EU funding, in the same way as this very good LIFE project, which would bring about some kind of project that would, first of all, improve the habitats of the forest and then provide information on what measures would be taken to raise the stocks of the forest?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u587	Mr President! Congressman Kiuru, do you really think this is a smart decision? Looks like you do. I have a simple, simple answer for you: "It's not a smart decision." This is what your fellow party member, Jan Vapaavuori, said a moment ago in Helsingin Sanomat. And he went on to say, "There's a lot more to the need for a living than just income." Let me take one example. Congressman Kiuru, was it the case that you have been a party to fathers' rights? For example, a lonely father with a maintenance obligation may very quickly face a situation where even three tons of income, if there is a high maintenance cost, will not be enough money to live. Do you think we should get him out of these apartments? I would like an answer to this. Minister, I would like you to reconsider this decision, but if you do not, do not come back and talk about red tape, deregulation or incentive traps.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u588	One more response, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u589	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindtman, for these comments. Of course, nothing is black and white, as we both know. I will read you a section of the Government Programme: "ARA's population choices for rental housing will be developed in order to achieve better matching by linking the income limits to the social needs assessment of the population choice." Is it true, Mr Lindtman, that you are opposed to the income limits of the social needs test? And you referred to Minister Vapaavuori. Quite rightly, former Minister Vapaavuori, the previous Minister in Helsingin Sanomat has said as you said, the quotation is correct. The meeting allows for different thinking in exactly the same way that President Ahtisaari is in favour of NATO membership, for example in the Demari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u590	And Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u591	Mr President! I do not know how the Coalition Party now got this NATO debate, but if we stick to it, it is true that there are different opinions in the party, but I must say that although I disagree with Jan Vapaavuori on a number of points, I have learned to rely on him for his part in these matters of housing. He has often been the voice of reason, and he is also in this case. And I would like to say one more thing: when you said that the level of income of a doctor or a congressman, look at how many people actually have this level of income in ARA housing at the moment. It is a natural transition to shared-ownership and owner-occupied dwellings. There is no need for any new bureaucracy or a stakeout system. Give up this state-led stakeout system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u592	Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u593	Mr President! Thank you for the interesting discussions, ladies and gentlemen. This question of the income limit, from which they were already playing: It is simply a question of wanting to secure new agreements in state-subsidised housing production for those most in need of housing. At present, many different criteria are used to assess the need for housing, and these criteria will continue to apply. Only this issue of income limits will be clarified to the EUR 3000, which, by the way, is quite ten per cent higher than the median income of Finns. In other words, the majority of Finns are still able to apply for ARA housing. We must remember that no inspection deadlines have yet been set. Only the new agreements consider that this threshold will not be exceeded. There is no interference in existing agreements. If, in the future, the electronic income register ever moves on to regular checks of someone's length, they will again apply to new contracts from that moment on. Of course, if we go into this system, then the incentive trap problem can be relevant depending on the length of the period during which these agreements will be reviewed. That's it. Both Mrs Aalto and Mrs Torniainen spoke about the cost level of construction. Torniainen almost answered Aalto, but we will be sure of how to ensure the dream of affordable housing: by increasing construction where there is a shortage of dwellings, by lightening construction regulations, so that construction costs do not run unduly high, and of course the ball will also run up to the municipalities, speeding up planning and making changes to the Land Use and Construction Act will make that part of the state so that municipalities can better plan. How do we prevent rents from being overcharged or poured into the wrong pockets? Many representatives referred to this VVO case. So these restrictions have already been made, how much rent can be increased by tenants for different purposes. Here's a start. Now the government has submitted a proposal to Parliament for a new law of general interest. There is no longer any need to draw a draw on whether an operator is of general interest, but always to see whether it meets the cost level and otherwise these general interest criteria, whether it can be supported, and ARA’s control possibilities are improved somewhat in this new law. With Representative Filatov, I agree exactly with the relationship between mobility and living, that when transport connections work, it is possible to apply for that affordable apartment a little longer and to ensure that you can work and live at reasonable prices. The law on the protection of human beings won't open. The government made a decision about it. It is a pleasure to support that decision. In the promotion of migratory fish, in the promotion of migratory fish stocks, we have a leading project with 7 different river areas identified, and next year 2.5 million will be spent on improving these sites. There are a wide range of activities: over-transplants, fish roads, refurbishment of spawning areas, and so on. We always see what works best in each water system. Of course, this is not just a matter for the state; it is how power companies or other companies, municipalities, come along, of course, that strengthens its impact. Congressman Kiljunen spoke about this renovation of Pien-Saima. Fortunately, we have a huge number of such water treatment projects in various parts of the country, where people are enthusiastic about working for water bodies. It's really important. This question of compensation for fraud, which was raised by a number of representatives: there have indeed been problems in that rhythm and there have been problems in preparing for it, and in fact, without going into detail, there is going to be improvements here that will be better known in the future that the budget will be sufficient. There were many other good questions you had, but unfortunately, as a rigid person, I did not have time to answer them all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u594	All right, now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u595	Mr President! Yesterday and today there has been a lively debate on next year's budget. It has been interesting to hear statements from the opposition about 'government doing wrong' or 'government doing nothing'. However, we live in reality that decisions have to be made and things have to be taken forward. The primary objective of the budget proposals is to support the recovery of Finland's economy and the improvement of employment, as only by improving employment can we secure services for everyone in Finland in the future as well as care for the disadvantaged. A few withdrawals I'd like to bring up. We already have signs of a better situation in Finland. The economy is now growing after several years of decline, and unemployment has slightly relaxed — that is a good thing. This development will continue to be supported by the government, among other things, through the business tax package for small and medium-sized enterprises, where today most of the new jobs will be created. Employment and entrepreneurship packages will improve the operating conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, facilitate employment and employment of people and increase the incentive to work. Mr President! Finally, I would like to raise a few important points in that budget: an additional EUR 90 million will be allocated to the development of family and family care for the municipalities, as well as an investment of EUR 40 million in the services of veterans of our wars, which will focus especially on home-based services. It is also good that students come under the general housing allowance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u596	Mr President! Yesterday and today there has been a wide-ranging debate on the state budget proposal for 2017, and in this context I myself will take the opportunity to make a somewhat fragmented speech about the discussions that have taken place over a few days. In particular today, we had issues relating to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and in that regard I would like to raise these positive transport projects and the debt-repairing issues that can be found in the Government's proposal. It is very balanced, and significant large and new investments will be mobilised, but this basic bus repair debt issue was discussed during the day, but it is such a blood vessel issue for Finnish society that we have a network of waterways in order here. I believe that the establishment and creation of Infra Oy is the most important issue in the transport chain, and I hope that it will be a very broad cooperation that will prepare it and provide it with such a good preparation basis and thus secure the construction and maintenance of the Finnish fairway network. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Finnish food and food prices and the incomes of producers were spoken. There was a great deal of debate over the day about this issue, and I was also involved in it, but there was also a particular concern, in addition to the livelihood, about the survival and support of producers and farming families. I hope that the government will continue to pay attention to ensuring the survival of young farmers in particular. In the discussion in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, traffic offences were taken into consideration, and I myself would like to raise the issue where the offender of traffic offences in Finland receives three times as much punishment as possible or at worst. For example, a lumber driver who drives overload is fined for it. Another punishment for the same thing: he may lose a driver’s license, perhaps for a month, he loses his livelihood for a month. Then, if this happens to be unfortunate that, in two years' time, the driver would like to teach his own daughter a driving licence, even with his own education licence, he will have a five - year penalty for not receiving a teaching licence, and again he will receive a third penalty for this overload. As such, the excess is of course a traffic offence for which the fines are reasonable, but these other penalties are, in my view, excessive. I therefore hope that a fairer solution will be found to this multiple punishment practice in Finland. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the debate in the hearing of the Minister of Local Government and in matters relating to the administrative sector on the fate of the buildings that will be transferred to the provinces in the forthcoming reform of the social and regional structures. Well, it became clear from the Minister’s reply that those owned by joint municipal authorities are transferred to the provinces with their debts in this way. But what will be done with the potential health centers where, in two or three years’ time, there will be no proper action? Will they remain in those foundations, and what will be done about their possible debt situation? I would like to see a better and more detailed response to this in the autumn, because many decision-makers, now that budgets are being drawn up for the coming years, will have to take a position on this issue. In particular, municipalities are also interested in this financing of mould schools and mould properties, whether there is sufficient funding for them in the Government Programme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u597	Mr President! The big ship is turning slowly. However, Finland has already turned towards a better direction. The current government has been in office for over a year, so much remains to be done, but despite the start of the parliamentary term, the preliminary results are already visible. Every Member of Parliament understands that the most important task for each of us is to create work in our country, security in everyday life and hope for a better tomorrow. The employment rate has risen by approximately 0.5 percentage points since the government started its work. It's a little bit, but it's the right direction. In order to improve security, the government still has a lot to do. Due to the decisions taken by the previous government this year and in the following years, for example, only about 40 police officers will be completed each year, while around 300 will be able to retire. For this we thank the shortsightedness of the previous government. The previous government also grazed traffic control, which is now mainly due to automatic traffic control. Physically, you can no longer see policemen, for example, under heavy traffic control. Before the beginning of the current government, the problems of the Finnish economy had continued for seven long years. For seven long years, they sat on their hands and waited for someone to put things right. Now this someone, or government, is doing it, and that, of course, does not happen to everyone. They want to hold on to their interests with their claws. "No waste for a friend" in the form of a new sky,and good things are in order, is easy to The competitiveness pact prepared in cooperation with the social partners is a very important repair movement for our economy, and it cannot be overemphasized in any way. The Government will fight for every Finnish job until the last. This is also reflected in this budget solution and in the list of employment measures decided upon in connection with it and in future Government bill changes. The Competitiveness Pact and other reforms prepared by the Government will increase employment by around 60,000 to 70,000 people. Further measures will continue to be discussed in good agreement with the social partners, while respecting equity, humanity and fairness. I also give special thanks to Lex Lindström, who is very human to a long-term unemployed person over 60 years of age. Let us hope that decisions can be made as soon as possible. I am sure that this budget proposal is also good for small entrepreneurs — please. You will receive an entrepreneurial deduction to correct the unfair tax treatment of the corporate tax reduction in the previous parliamentary term. Your activities will also be facilitated by the introduction of payment-based VAT. Furthermore, the government is not raising VAT because it would hit the most low-income people and dwindle economic growth. On the other hand, the highest level of capital taxation has already been raised and the basis of the solidarity tax on the highest income categories has already been broadened. This is just action and the previous government has only been left to speak, in other words, there is nothing to do. However, the biggest measure of fairness is that Finland's debt should be reversed. Therefore, the health course of the economy will continue in line with the Government Programme in this budget too. Although the turning point in Finland's national regions has now taken place, there is still enough work for each of us to improve justice and humanity. Working should always be more profitable than being at home, even though home is the best place in the world. Taxes must be reduced equally for all. Humanity and justice in decision-making require the attitude that the needs of others outweigh their own interests and that the common fatherland’s interests are above all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u598	Mr President! Finland has been successful in manufacturing high-tech products that sell in the world. It's based on expertise. The watering of new sprouts requires research based on basic research and encouraging companies to innovate. But what is the Finnish Government doing? It paralyzes the university world with massive cuts in research and education. It takes hope away from young people by drastically reducing the funding and training places for vocational education and training. And the government coldly chastises those who are already very strict in everyday life: people cut income support from bread queue customers, people cut low-income pensioners, children's allowances are reduced by families with children. The Social Fund estimates that budget freezes and cuts can move a large number of people below the poverty line. This includes persons with disabilities or disability whose income consists of pensions and other benefits and benefits. According to the Invalidity Association, the number of doctors and the purchase of medicines has decreased for economic reasons. People have to decide whether they can afford bread or medicine. The welfare state has become crystal fragile, and by government action it crumbles. The hope of the Paris climate agreement will fade as the government provides pollution aid to the industry, namely emissions trading. It paralyzes the development that industry needs so much: investments in clean technology, energy efficiency and renewable energy. VATT has criticised subsidies for energy-intensive industries as costly, contrary to environmental objectives and ineffective. Emissions trading revenue must be directed towards development cooperation and climate finance. The government's actions can be commended for extending the use of unemployment benefit to pay subsidies or start-up grants as well as for the payment-based value added tax of small entrepreneurs. A small entrepreneur can better cope with the bills on time when the VAT account is made after the entrepreneur has received a payment from his client. A large proportion of new jobs are created in small businesses. For the sole entrepreneur, the support to hire an assistant, the first employee, would be very important and for everyone the win-win situation would be when the support would create a new job. Many lone entrepreneurs work at the limit of exhaustion, so that a new employee can bring relief. I would also support temporary employment, because I understand the risk of employing a small entrepreneur and I trust that a large proportion of paid workers will continue. The government intends to try out basic income for 2000 long-term unemployed. Why not extend the experiment to micro-entrepreneurs? Many of them live below the poverty line. Basic income is a good incentive to try and work. The Greens budget option highlights the means of getting work and investments in Finland. The keys to change are environmental technology and renewable energy, training opportunities for young people, measures to promote employment, such as the coordination of work and social security, and the facilitation of small entrepreneurship. Current support for renewable energy, such as the feed-in tariff for wind power, is about to disappear. The last power plants built with the aid will soon grind electricity from the air. With the help of tariffs, the construction of wind power has been boosted. In order for good development to continue, a new support system needs to be put in place soon. It no longer has to be very generous, because technological progress has led to lower costs. As a model of support for renewable energy sources, we Greens are proposing a call for tender, i.e. aid based on auctions. The new Green Small Energy Programme would boost biogas plants, geothermal heat and small solar energy production in farms. In particular, there is potential for the conversion of public buildings to geothermal heat, and solar energy needs to be made an attractive alternative to housing companies, blocks of flats and terraced houses. To make renewable energy three leaps at once and Finland 100% renewable by 2050. We can't afford to retreat from nature conservation. Biodiversity is dwindling at a frightening rate, and there is a sixth wave of extinction. Up to 2,000 species living in the forest are endangered, but less than 2% of forests in Southern Finland are protected. Nevertheless, the Government has cut more than half of the acquisition of nature reserves and the funding of the Metso programme. The funding of nature conservation must be raised to at least the 2015 level. The decline in diversity does not apply only to decayed insects, which only scientists are interested in. The crisis of diversity is destroyed recreational and multi-use opportunities, open-cut old childhood fairytale forests and berryland, threatened bird populations, lost tourism opportunities. In the early part of the year, Finland's economy has experienced a growing trend, especially in terms of construction and trade, as a result of increased private consumption, but one important element of growth is missing, namely exports. The possible recovery of Finland's economy will only be sustainable if it is supported by exports. Exports would be encouraged by companies investing in new ones. There are opportunities in the digital economy, environmental technology and service exports. Agriculture is in an historic crisis of profitability. The EUR 50 million aid package is therefore to be welcomed and the farmer's survival must be ensured, but it will be essential in the future to make primary production more profitable. New vegetable protein products, such as bull beans, are of interest to consumers. Eco-friendly organic farming also has growth potential, and rural areas have opportunities for the production of distributed renewable small energy. The reform of agricultural subsidies must continue to focus more on measures targeted at the protection of the Baltic Sea. Mr President! We cannot afford to push anyone into deep poverty and hopelessness. Green budget option provides for a more moderate balance between central government finances
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u599	Mr President! In most cases, Parliament's budget debate on the opposition side criticises tax increases and the fact that subsidies are too small. I am going to do the opposite: I am criticising the abolition of one tax and one new aid. The tax, which I am very sorry about removing, is a sweet tax. This will cut the budget by about EUR 100 million. Some of the arguments put forward by the government are also relevant, but the rest are not. It is true that the present sweets tax is inconsistent, but there is no way I can believe that it is impossible to prepare a tax based on the amount of added sugar contained in the prepared food. It is known that such a tax exists in Hungary, for example. However, the worst part of the abolition of the sugar tax is not the 100 million mark on tax revenue, which is immediately due, but the worst is the impact on public health and the resulting huge bill on health care. It has long been known that overweight increases the risk of a large number of diseases and that the increase in obesity, especially among young people, is a time bomb for public health and, at the same time, for public finances. More or less every week, there will be new studies on the effect of sugar on overweight and its health risks. I very much hope that the government will introduce a sugar tax based on the added sugar for food, which is consistent and cannot be challenged by the industry as discriminatory. Well, the support I still want to hear from this can of speakers is the so-called emissions trading compensation, which has been estimated at 43 million for next year and over 200 million for the whole decade. This new aid is targeted at sectors which already benefit from a reduced electricity tax of more than 400 million and an energy tax cutter of almost 200 million. Carbon Market Watch has also reminded us that Finnish companies subject to emissions trading in 2008-2014 have earned more than EUR 480 million in emission trading for unprofitable so-called windfall profits because they have received free allowances and sold surplus allowances on the market and also invoiced the price of the allowance to their customers. As I said in the debate, Finland would be able to hit two birds with one stone. The greatest challenge facing mankind is climate change, and demand for solutions to curb climate change is strong and growing in the world. In Finland, environmental technology, i.e. cleantech, has already grown into a larger industry than the forest industry, both in terms of turnover and jobs or in terms of export income. The world market in this sector is growing rapidly. The sector is expected to double over the next 10 years. All reason is therefore to support and encourage sectors with high growth potential, high potential for future job creation and which also provide solutions to the challenges facing humanity as a whole. Unfortunately, the government does exactly the opposite: it cuts research money and takes the market away from energy efficiency solutions that are the biggest pot in Finnish cleantech. Mr President! I have talked to people who have done work to promote exports of Finnish environmental technology. They reported that in many companies the biggest bottleneck is to find domestic references, i.e. to find domestic customers to whom they could take their foreign potential customers to see how their technology works. Finnish environmental technology companies, many of them, have had to take their Asian customers to Sweden, for example, to see how their solutions work. The fact that the government is already increasing large subsidies to support the largest polluters undermines the efforts made to create Finnish environmental technology, great Finnish expertise, jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u600	Mr President! I have put together a number of points from yesterday's and today's debates which I did not get to comment on during the debate. Firstly, the savings in vocational education and training are horrendous in view of the fact that the government first implements the savings and then structural reform. It is precisely this order that is the problem. I follow the activities of a couple of vocational colleges very closely, and teachers are already agonizing and tired of the conflict between professional identity and reality. Reducing teaching hours means that the teacher cannot do his job well, and this is also reflected in the learning results. Not all education and studies can be transferred to workplaces or to self-study by students or to a group without a teacher. Future savings will make this situation even worse. This is what teachers themselves tell me about their own work. Secondly, promoting health and well-being in different ways is an investment in the future. It should at least be seen as an investment. That is why it should be involved in all decision-making. A key project to promote health and well-being will not help if it is not included in all policies. One example is the proposal to convert the sugar tax into a sugar tax. I agree exactly with Mr Hassi that the mechanical abolition of the tax is a bad thing, but it can certainly be developed into a better form. But the most effective way to promote health and well-being is to reduce poverty, because socio-economic differences explain the significant differences in health. Now, government action increases poverty and health inequalities, and this will be costly for society in the long run. Particularly worrying is the increase in poverty in families with children, as during the previous recession, some of the savings on children are still being paid. Finally, Mr President, Finland will only get on its feet with new products and innovations, which will then have to be sold on the world market. Therefore, investing in education, research, product development, innovation and marketing competence should be a priority in the budget. Unfortunately, it is on these very issues that the government is saving and thus taking up the conditions for growth. Education, research and innovation should be seen as an investment in the future. It's not a consumption item.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u601	Mr President! As part of the measures to increase employment, the government has also decided to dismantle the incentive traps associated with enforcement, which prevent employment. The aim is to facilitate enforcement in order to encourage employment and facilitate the position of low-income over-indebted persons. This is a good thing. The Ministry of Justice will find out how to dismantle the incentive traps for employment. The preparation will assess the potential and impact of an increase in the percentage of enforcement protection. The Government will also explore possibilities other than an increase in the share of protection. It is important that the measure is targeted at employed debtors. It is not intended to make general reliefs to the status of well-paid enforcement debtors or to make changes that are questionable for the functioning of a payment policy or a credit society. Mr President! The restructuring of the enforcement operation, the Career project, aims to improve productivity and economy in enforcement without jeopardising the legal security of the parties concerned. The enforcement department will be organised into a single agency. The site network is determined by the service needs of the customers and the operational needs of the authorities. With regard to workflows, the objective is an enhanced implementation process. The project also involves an information system reform designed to develop electronic customer services and to automate the procurement of enforcement data and the procedure in order to improve and speed up the enforcement process. An additional EUR 10 million has been agreed for the information system reform for the years 16 to 18. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 18. Mr President! One of the objectives of the project is to improve the enforcement process of the enforcement body. The purpose is to allocate the tasks of the enforcement proceedings to different categories of staff in a new way, depending on the nature and complexity of the case. This project shall be carried out in good cooperation and in accordance with good staff policy with the staff of the enforcement service and its representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u602	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government's budget proposal follows the line chosen. The main failings in this respect are the lack of the necessary effort to deal with the employment situation and the very unfair distribution of scarcity. The acceptability of a policy of surgery has been undermined at the latest by the fact that the money cut from the daily lives of citizens is not geared to the reversal of debt but can also afford to give relief to the own interest groups of the government parties. Government tax cuts are also more beneficial to better incomes. It is not fair that purchasing power increases most for those who earn at least EUR 7000 a month this year, or that entrepreneurship reduction favours people of the highest income categories most. What do we need now? What is urgently needed is rapid action to achieve growth and jobs, in practice. If the government had a clear programme and determined action to do this, there could still be some understanding of the cuts. In fact, you are taking the situation much worse by means of cuts in education, which will also break down the human capital of the future. Mr President! A lot of people are concerned about the security situation in the country. We have recently had to face phenomena in Finland that you could not even imagine before. Violence in all its forms is reprehensible. In this situation, it would be important for the resources of the security authorities to be taken care of. But what is the government doing? It'll cut the number of cops by 100 next year. Already this year, around 7200 police officers, are low in international comparisons, and this falls significantly behind the 7500 police levels recommended by experts. In my view, the fact that more is being cut out of it is somehow incomprehensible. Next year we'll have 250 policemen. That's 200 more than this year. The worst thing we can do now is put them right on the card. As a result, the attractiveness of the police career would collapse, and this would make it extremely challenging to increase the number of police officers at a later stage. The number of police officers is also directly related to road safety, and I am very concerned about that. Among other things, cabotage decisions and, at the same time, a reduction in the number of controls make up quite a time bomb that can come before anyone in traffic. My own province is badly hit by intentions to undermine the poor weather performance of the Turku helicopter base. In practice, Turku Airport is closing at night. This change has an impact on sea rescue activities in the archipelago and makes it impossible, under certain conditions and in certain areas, to carry out sea rescue tasks. I would also appeal to the government to reconsider this matter. Mr President! The government's way of balancing the state finances has been a source of economic problems for the poor. The combined effects of many different surgeries put many people in real trouble. At the same time, employment and livelihoods have deteriorated, and correspondingly, different responsibilities and costs have increased, putting many even at risk of meeting basic needs. It is estimated that the budget proposal's index freezes and cuts can move even a large number of people below the poverty line. Deterioration of social security benefits increases the need for income support. Pensioners on low incomes are once again paying for the cuts. Organizations know people’s daily lives well, and there is alarming information from the organization field that visiting a doctor and buying medicines has decreased for economic reasons. For this we will pay an expensive bill, and this is completely wrong for human life. In times of difficulty, the importance of justice in decisions is emphasised. The best way for the people to overcome the difficulties is to be united. Now the policy of the government divides the people even further into the good and the bad. On these grounds, I am very concerned about how we can achieve growth in the economy and employment. We should support one another over difficult times, and now some of the group is threatening to get off for a hard time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u603	Mr. Speaker! In my opinion, the most important content of this budget is that there is a great deal and many ways of investing in entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs create jobs. Companies give birth to them. The public sector is employing, and valuable work is being done there, but we know that it does not strengthen our exports, nor does it help our economy. The Government implements the basis for payment of VAT. It is a long-standing issue that is now being realised. Thank you for that. Entrepreneurial deduction will be introduced, a 5% reduction. It has been criticised very strongly here in many speeches because it is claimed that it benefits those with high incomes the most. Of course that is the case, but I think the side has gone completely unthinking that the pharmacist with high incomes may himself be working very hard now, and now that he gets this tax reduction, he hires one or two employees at his pharmacy, and as we grow older and use more medicines, the need for this increase in the number of employees certainly lies in most pharmacies. It therefore benefits a pharmacist who may be unemployed when he receives a job corresponding to his training at a pharmacy. The same happens in engineering offices, perhaps even in law firms, that there is a need for new employees and that there will be more and more pay. Of course, in these lower income companies, this is also necessary to reduce the uncertainty of the entrepreneur’s own livelihood and entrepreneurial risk. So entrepreneurship reduction is an excellent thing. We warmly support it, and that has been the aim. The compensation of family costs will also create for the first time, by this government, an income of EUR 2500. Entrepreneurship is therefore the key issue in raising employment and Finland, and it is SMEs that are doing the most valuable work in it, because that is where the jobs are first and foremost created. There has been a lot of discussion here about the competitiveness pact. When we are in the single currency, we do not have the prospect of devaluing, as Sweden, for example. Sweden has not devalued, but its crown has floated and devalued, and it has thus benefited from its exports for years. Finland has no such thing when, unfortunately, we are in this single currency, which does not fit the situation in Finland at all today. The social partners did a valuable job when they signed a competitiveness pact. I do not understand why the trade union movement decided to cut the holiday money for public workers by EUR 300. Why wasn't it done to everyone, or was it treated in some other way? But that is what has been agreed on the labour market. Fortunately, now that the Kiky agreement as such favoured the well-earned, its government adjusted its tax solutions so that it favoured the low and middle incomes through it. The position of the Social Democrats on the kiky agreement has been rather confusing. Mr Ihalainen, when I have spoken to him, was even a midwife to this kiky agreement, but now that has been criticised here by many Social Democrats, and now it is the impression that some people are even opposed to it when it was born. The Greens claim that the kiky agreement will be the concrete of all the reforms in Finland. This is not going to happen. That is what I asked the Prime Minister during the day, and he said that for next year, reforms may not be as possible other than through negotiations. But the Kiki deal isn't forever. It will bring so much benefit to the Finnish economy that it was worth doing and then waiting with other improvements for a little while. The alternative that seems to be being advocated by the Left Alliance when it opposes the Kiky agreement is that it wants to support the ACP and those who would not have entered into the agreement, who would have put the Finnish wheels in a halt this autumn or next winter, and that would have been a disastrous alternative to the Finnish economy. So in this regard it was wise to have it and to have peace of work for a while. Furthermore, it will create some 40 000 jobs and what has been forgotten: the Kiki agreement will certainly secure thousands of jobs that would have fallen without it and unemployment would have increased. This, therefore, reflects the determined and wise policy of the government, and its results are beginning to show. During this sectional debate, I found that the Social Democrats, like the rest of the opposition, were calling for a substantial increase in about every section. They demand that taxes be maintained — which would, of course, in practice constitute a breach of the Kiki Agreement — and then demand that debt should not be taken over. This is a completely absurd situation. It cannot be that there is a huge increase in expenditure, that there is no increase in tax revenue and that there is no debt. Where would that money come from? Nothing. Therefore, this government policy is responsible and its results are beginning to show: employment is improving, GDP is increasing as it went down last season, competitiveness is improving, and even debt is being controlled by this programme, and I believe, as the Prime Minister too, that the employment rate of 72% can be achieved as long as we are determined to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u604	Mr President! The budget proposes to amend the article on the amount of child allowance in the Child Welfare Act. To put it bluntly, this means that the income of the family of children will be reduced due to a reduction in the child benefit. Almost a direct quote from a government proposal: "The Child Welfare Act provides for child benefit from state funds for the maintenance of children under 17 years of age. In Finland, child benefit is an income equalisation between families with children and households without children. Child benefit is paid to the family in order to cover the costs of the child and is a benefit for all families with children." In recent years, a number of changes have been made to the Child Benefits Act, but the grounds for the child benefit itself have not been dared to be addressed. It is still the right of every family, regardless of the income level of the parents. Personally, I would prefer child benefits to be progressive income, dependent on the income level of the parents, and when one parent’s income would be, for example, 70,000 euros or more, child benefits would no longer be granted. Mr President! Then on a completely different subject, namely the construction and maintenance of reindeer groves. The budget also proposes that Parliament adopt a proposal on the construction and maintenance of reindeer groves and other measures to prevent reindeer from entering the territory of another kingdom. The aim of the proposal is therefore to adopt and implement nationally the new reindeer fence agreement concluded between Finland and Norway on 9 December 2014, replacing the old equivalent agreement. The aim is to prevent reindeer from crossing the border between Finland and Norway. There is nothing special about the agreement in itself, because Finland also has similar reindeer fence agreements with Sweden and Russia, and they have mostly worked well. According to the proposal, the content of the agreement is roughly the same as the previous corresponding agreement between Finland and Norway. The most significant changes to this agreement are the construction of new fences in the Inari and Tenojoki valleys and the simplification and streamlining of the clearing and settlement procedure for the crossing of reindeer. According to the old Reindeer Agreement, the reindeer owners of both lands have been obliged to shepherd the reindeer so as not to enter the territory of another kingdom. This is likely to be quite challenging in practice, but Finnish reindeer husbands have been very successful in doing so, as recently, reindeer crossings have only occurred from Norway to Finland. These Norwegian reindeer have recently caused an average annual damage of approximately EUR 100,000 in the Tenojoki valley on the Finnish side. Finnish farm owners have had to wait a couple of years for compensation, which I consider unreasonable for each of them. Earlier today, I explained how this compensation policy could be facilitated. Mr President! I consider both proposals to be very good and necessary. However, there should also be a similar fence between Russia and Finland due to the border wolves of Kainuu, North Karelia and South Karelia. This could effectively reduce the entry of wolves into Finland from Karelia in Russia. At the moment, there is nothing to prevent the movement of the border wolves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u605	Mr President! In the last period, quick-leases were reduced by setting a cap on loans below EUR 2000 with a maximum interest rate of 50 % plus a basic interest rate. The current situation is that quick-lease companies are circumventing this letter of the law by granting loans of more than EUR 2000 which are not covered by the interest rate cap. In practice, they are often paid less than the amount granted, i.e. the loan is divided into parts, so that the interest rate on the loans can escape into the clouds, contrary to the original interest rate cap legislation. In an emergency, a quick visit can often be used to pay the rent of a home, for example. I would have asked the Minister today if he could see that something could be done during this parliamentary term in order to curb the interest rate of these quick-credit companies, such as legislative changes. Mr President! The management of these quick loans may be impossible for some and may result in default marking. At present, there are a record number of people in Finland who are in financial trouble, already over 370,000. Disbursement marking can pose a real problem for people, for example, when purchasing housing. Many landlords require home insurance from a tenant. On the other hand, it may be impossible to obtain home insurance because it is precisely because of this default marking that insurance companies may not issue home insurance. Mr President! Home insurance is part of voluntary insurance with contractual freedom. Insurance companies are not obliged to enter into an insurance contract with everyone who wants it. A default marking may be an acceptable reason for the insurance company to refuse to grant insurance if it objectively enables the customer to assess that the insurance policy will continue to be non-payment of the premium. It is quite common for insurance companies to refuse home insurance on the basis of the credit default mark alone, even though the purpose of the Insurance Contracts Act was that the use of the cash payment would be the main rule in the event of a default. However, this practice is completely different. The default marking often prevents you from getting home insurance, and it may be impossible to move to another city, for example, after work. Mr President! The unemployed are also encouraged to take up work outside the municipality of residence, a little further away. Many people would also have the will to do this. However, the payment default marking may be an obstacle to moving to another location in pursuit of a job. A rental dwelling may not be available in another municipality due to a possible payment default marking. Mr President! Home is one of the basic prerequisites for a person’s life to function. I would have liked to ask the Minister: how can these people be helped to start a new working life in another place?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u606	I will give the floor to Mr Kiviranta and then the matter will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u607	Mr President! I will use this second speech in the general debate on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. In the Finnish education system, polytechnics have established themselves as part of our education system during their 20-year period. In 2015, the number of students in polytechnics was close to 140,000, of which approximately 10,000 were graduates of a postgraduate degree or higher polytechnic degree. Both student and degree numbers have been increasing. About 30% of this total is studying in the field of technology and 29% in the social and health care sectors. These two areas, which are very visible in our society, are responsible for more than half of the education of polytechnics. These numbers show the strength of our regionally active network of universities of applied sciences. In order to ensure the quality and status of this education in our country, cooperation between universities of applied sciences and between universities of applied sciences and universities must be developed on a wide scale. Cooperation must be an enabler in such a way that the strengths of both parties are shared. This should take into account the strong working life connections of universities of applied sciences and the high level of theoretical knowledge of universities. Mr President! With good cooperation, we will achieve a result that will strengthen the activities of both sides. Cooperation also makes it useful for universities of applied sciences to focus on certain strong local areas, enabling the university to act as a strong regional influence. It is one of the basic tasks of polytechnics. Cooperation will also make it possible to maintain the high quality of higher education while maintaining the current wide-ranging provision of training programmes. This does not mean that every university provides all the training possible, but that each institution provides the training that is best placed to carry out both according to the need for regional education and the realistic number of students in the region. This cooperation will also help universities to use common spaces to benefit from the increased utilisation rates of premises, so that money can be directed to research and teaching instead of farm rents. Mr President! Political decision-making will enable us to create an environment that will secure the development of universities of applied sciences in the future. Through extensive cooperation, polytechnics are able to respond effectively to the challenges of the future and to secure a skilled workforce for companies and to act as a strong regional developer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-21-ps-87.u608	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been agreed that this debate will be suspended before the last speech. Just now, before Mr Kiviranta spoke, only Mr Kulmala was on the list of speakers. That is why I announced that the case would be suspended.
