ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u1	The 6th issue of the daily order is the topical debate on extremism and violence in Finland. The topical debate will begin with a round of group speeches with a maximum of 5 minutes. They are followed by three-minute speeches by Minister of Interior Paula Risikko and Minister of Justice and Labour Jari Lindström. The other speeches shall be reserved by means of a P button and shall not exceed 2 minutes. I will admit these speeches in the order in which I am considering them and, at my discretion, I will also give replies of up to 1 minute. I would urge you to stick to these deadlines, because only 2 hours have been set aside for this debate. This will ensure that as many people as possible have the opportunity to speak. Then let's move on to the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u2	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Council of Presidents for finding the time for this joint initiative by the chairmen of the parliamentary groups in this plenary session rather quickly. Thank you for that. Mr President! After the events of Helsinki Asema Square, the Government decided on solutions to address extremism in our country. The practical application of existing laws will be made more effective. More resources will be allocated to the authorities. The Centre supports these solutions. We believe that the solutions are sustainablely aligned with people's freedom of speech, opinion, association and assembly. The threshold for tackling fundamental rights has been consciously set high. It has also been important for the parties to jointly condemn violence, hate actions, hate speech and racism. Mr President! We believe that Finns in the centre expect from us decision-makers, above all, a view of what we want Finland to be in the future. By reforming the city centre, the goal is to build a safe, employment-friendly and equal Finland, where everyone is cared for and the country as a whole is being developed in a balanced way. From now on, we will also defend democracy, the rule of law and human rights. No extremists who commit violence or other crimes may have a place in Finland. In a democracy, influence is sought and earned in an election. In this case, influence comes directly from the Finnish people. Mr President! Unemployment has increased in Finland for years. The problem of unemployment is serious and can have many side effects. The most lasting guarantee for social peace is that we can bring about a change of direction and that employment in Finland is finally improved. The Centre is committed to doing everything possible to improve employment. Young people and the long-term unemployed in particular need to be put back on the sidelines of meaningful life through work. Everyone must have the opportunity to build this country with their own contribution. Mr President! The Finnish process of life has included a multi-sound and pluralistic debate through which we have been able to achieve a common vision, agree on matters and reform Finland. I have received quite a lot of contact from ordinary Finns who feel that in many respects the debate has become one-on-one and offensive, in which there is really no room for moderate and constructive views. Black-and-white confrontation and hate speech are raging especially in online columns and social media, unfortunately. The city centre wants to return to Finland a culture of conversation that leans on the old wisdom "take a guess on your own space, give value to another". A multi-sounding and multi-valued debate is also one solution for controlling all kinds of extremism. Especially during this period of transition, Mr President, there is a need for a debate which is tolerant of different opinions, but centred on solutions. We believe that the reasonable majority of Finns also expect this from us decision-makers. Perhaps even the Parliament itself could, for its own small part, be setting an example. Maybe. Could we stop talking to each other, or at least reduce it, and deliberately misunderstanding, and instead put resources into finding solutions, truly together? Mr President! Finland will soon be 100 years old. The symbol for the coming anniversary year is "Together." That word sums up a great deal of the essence of Finnishness and why we have done well, even though our country has been tested both inside and outside for decades, in so many different ways. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President! Again, it is up to us whether we face the future together or separately. The Centre considers that this country must be built together by working and caring for each other. Let's be good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u3	Mr President! The Finnish Parliament Group is committed to eradicating all forms of ideological violence from Finland. The purpose does not justify the means of promoting any ideological purpose, nor does it simply belong to Finnish society to abuse people or destroy property. Attacks against persons, entities or property are not social influences. They are criminal activities that have no place in our society. I am sure that all parliamentary parties are equally committed to defending Western democracy. We unequivocally condemn all human hatred, discrimination and violence. Democratic and legitimate social means of influence do not include kicking people on the street by the extreme right, nor does the vandalism and violence favoured by the radical environmental movement, for example in the form of arson, not to mention terrorism against several EU countries. We Finns do not want a Finland where the right or anarchy of a stronger one prevails. The interests of the people should be promoted by democratic means and respect Finnish laws and their defenders. We are defending freedom of expression and we are calling for sufficient resources for the police to eradicate political violence and for tougher sentences for those who have committed violence. In a democratic society, there is no violent opposition to authority, beating with bats or throwing bottles or stones. On the other hand, the opinion is expressed in elections or peaceful demonstrations, in which the integrity of the participants must be guaranteed. Mr President! We are now discussing a very serious issue. In Finnish society, cracks have started to appear, and we as the highest decision-makers in our society must find solutions. Fortunately, violence based on extremist movements and political activity still accounts for a small proportion of violence in Finnish society as a whole. In 2015, only 17 of the 30,000 assaults recorded in Finland were committed by extremists. Still, every case is too much. In the opinion of the Finns Party, however, the solution is not a separate law prohibiting the activities of certain organisations. Current legislation and previous preparatory work by public authorities already provide the means to intervene in violent extremism. On the other hand, there is room for improvement in implementation. Restrictions on freedom of expression or interference with civil rights are also not part of democratic Finland. Those who read history well know that a rash ban on the activities of organisations and restrictions on freedom of expression could lead to more radical underground activities. The designation of individual organisations or ideologies which are considered to be prohibited is questionable from the point of view of civil rights, and it is not necessary to draw up such black lists by means of legislation. The definition of extremist movement must be equal to all movements and ideologies in order to avoid political pursuits and ensure equal treatment before the law. Mr President! The Finns of Peru want to combat the threat posed by extremism in such a way that current legislation is implemented more effectively and threats are addressed as early as possible. The Ministry of the Interior has published a renewed National Action Programme for Preventing Violence and Extremism. Targeting the programme's means to groups at risk of radicalisation will enable good results to be achieved. Parties, NGOs and public authorities must challenge all Finns to participate in a meaningful public debate. The better we know about the objectives of extremists, the easier it will be to combat problems through democratic means, and, on the other hand, a meaningful and well-founded debate on immigration, for example, must continue to be possible without fear of stigmatisation as an extremist. Freedom of expression is an important cornerstone of Western democracy and must be respected despite world differences. There are undoubtedly still a number of shortcomings in our society that require correction. They must be corrected by means of democracy, so that the reforms supported by the citizens and a proven democratic system of government will also, if they succeed, make room for the growth of extremism. As long as we all believe in common rules of play, we have a society. The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group supports government measures that help eradicate extremism in Finland and make our country safer for both present and future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u4	Mr President! Security is man’s most immediate basic need immediately after a decent livelihood. Ensuring a sense of security is therefore one of the most important tasks of organised society. The change in the security environment in Europe has made the general climate more tense. The very good trust of Finns in security has also been shaken. The events of the Station Square a few weeks ago have shocked us all. In connection with an extreme nationalist demonstration, man became the victim of serious violence. We will do everything in our power to prevent such acts from happening again. The Coalition Party condemns all forms of political violence, racism and hate speech. I mean all the political violence, racism and hate speech. We must do everything in our power to prevent acts of violence or other crimes from pursuing ideological ends in Finland. Last week, the government adopted the measures prepared under the leadership of the Minister for the Interior, Paula Risiko, to intervene in extremist organisations. Efforts must now be made to limit the operating conditions of extremist organisations, to assess their legality, to intensify the investigation of hate crimes and to improve the prevention of crime. Violent extremists do not deserve to be outlawed. Our current legislation is aware of the possibility of abolishing an organisation which is acting in a way that is fundamentally contrary to law or good manners. We believe it is important for the authorities and courts to assess the legality of the Finnish resistance movement and other similar organisations. In order to limit the operating conditions of extremist organisations, the possibility of prohibiting the use of the logos of extremist organisations and improving the risk assessment of demonstrations should also be assessed, for example by extending the deadline for notification of demonstrations. The government directed the allocation of police resources to investigate the activities of extremist organisations, prevention and investigation of hate speech. As reported last weekend in the media, the number of hate crimes has increased. It is particularly worrying that, in addition to violent extremist organisations, these acts show radicalised individual factors. In the police investigation, greater efforts must be made to investigate the motives of hate crimes in order to be more closely taken into account in the courts. Granted, the investigation of motive is challenging, but it should be stepped up in order to take the hate motive of crime into account more frequently in the prosecution process. No one is born racist. Discriminating thinking and hate speech are things that are learned. For example, experiences, exclusion and frustration of participation drive us to find meanings in extremism. At the beginning of May Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Minister of Education and Culture, announced a programme to prevent racism and hate speech and promote social inclusion. The relevant programme in Finland introduces the activities of education, culture, youth work and physical activity to ensure that children and young people learn from the outset to be tolerant, respectable and respectable. Training those working with children and young people will ensure that they have the skills to intervene in hate speech. Early intervention can prevent hate speech from becoming hate deeds. Mr President! The recent debate has rightly focused on extremist nationalist violence. In addition, it is important to take action to eradicate all forms of political violence. No one should have to fear for his safety during his working day. It is inconceivable, for example, that the police in charge of the demonstration or the bus driver on duty should be subjected to violence or to an attempt by extremist organisations. Every year, demonstrations, or rather riots, cause damage to the property of bystanders to tens of thousands of euros. The use of violence or the destruction of bystanders' property is not allowed to protest. Let us ensure that there are adequate means to deal with these crimes as well. Ladies and gentlemen, we decision-makers have a responsibility to ensure the security of our country. The activities of violent extremist organisations and hate crime must now be addressed. The Government's policies are a good start to this work, which must now be continued.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u5	Madam President! In his novel, Mr. Nobel Prize-writer William Golding of the flies well describes how civilized people are affected by the false rumours that have been launched in a crisis situation. People in fear are starting to act irrationally. They're starting to doubt each other's intentions. There will be alliances. Unreasonable images turn into enemy images. In the end, hatred leads to senseless killings in a community that was supposed to be rational and civilized in every way. The message of the Nobel author is strong: the collapse of democracy and civilisation will eventually lead to absurd hatred, violence and the death of innocent people. Mr President! Finland is a good country. Our success is built on democracy and civilisation. Our multi-party system has proved to be a means through which the different views of our citizens have contributed to the development of our society. Together, we have been able to create a favourable framework for strengthening equality and justice. However, the situation is changing. This change is reflected in the strengthening of the anti-democratic extreme right-wing extremists, the neo-Nazisist extremists. The political violence that has become apparent is a sign of worrying underground movement. We agree that there is reason to be awake now. We have seen a citizen lose his life as a victim of political violence. Violence from political influences is a threat to our entire democratic system if we give room to extremists who accept violence. Mr President! It is important that we have a common desire to say no to all political violence and anti-democratic extremism. The responsibility for defending democracy and strengthening social peace rests with us all. What we say or what positions we take or what kind of organisations we operate is a model for many citizens that they are ready to follow. The voters have made us take responsibility. They have the right to expect us to speak and act responsibly. With our ill-considered words and actions, we can strengthen attitudes that are acceptable to extremists who despise democracy and hatred that leads to violence. Or we can wisely justify and assure that, despite all its shortcomings, democracy is the best method of promoting the good of both the individual and the nation as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u6	Mr President! It is said in Finland that speaking is silver, but silent is gold. Silence is our trademark. According to Bertolt Brecht, Finland is a country where two languages are silent. It's time to break this silence. The violence that led to death at an extremist event in Helsinki is a wake-up call for political movements that resort to violence in Finland. The same was seen in the library stabbing in Jyväskylä in January 2013. Democracy has the right to self-defence. We will never accept the use of violence to pursue political objectives. The legislation already contains instruments to combat violence, incitement to violence, racism, hate speech and organised crime. Let's use them. A ban on organised racism must also be added to the criminal code. In Finland, hate crimes or racist motives in crime are not always identified. Every year between 600 and 700 reports of crimes involving suspicion of racism are made. Racism is used as the basis for the sanctioning of less than 20 cases each year. Mr President! Hate crimes and racist crimes are often verbal insults. We may be understatement to say that something is only talk. We forget that speech is also an act — speech can offend, discourage, subjugate. Great changes in the world always start with talk. The Bible is talk. The Constitution is speech. The UN Declaration on Human Rights is a speech. Speech creates our society and changes the world. It is important what and how we speak and how we respond to what others say. Hate speech is not new in Finland. In the civil war of 1918, "red robbers" or "bastard bastards" were killed, just ordinary Finns, who, for various reasons, had drifted to the extremes of the conflict — eventually with guns in hand. There was a lack of moderate talk. That is also what we know has happened in the Yugoslavian disintegration wars and in the genocide in Rwanda. The neo-Nazi culture includes intimidation by the use of violence. Every political movement has to make its relationship with violence clear. The left has separated from the armed revolution, from right-wing radicalism, from us to eco-terrorism. In the political field, no one can flirt with violence or hate speech. All political movements have a responsibility to this end. Mr President! Should the Finnish Resistance as an organisation and the use of its symbols be prohibited by law? It is now up to the authorities to find out whether the organisation has been ensnared in such an idealization and inciting culture of organised violence that tough measures must be put in place. Social media has made hate speech everyday. Shame and false claims are commonplace. The decisions of the Public Word Council are being collected. When social media and other media are completely excluded from good manners and legislation, it is time for the authorities to act. We have to put a limit on hate speech. What happens in schools today is happening more widely in society later. Finnish school is not a good and safe place for all children at the moment. We're gonna find this for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u7	Mr President! The recent debate has repeatedly linked political violence to extremist movements. This is not wise or even true. Most of our radical movements do not accept violence, let alone use it. On the other hand, history is familiar with examples where violence is used by the middle groups of the political map. From the mainstream point of view, dissidents are always around. A functioning democracy, however, sees this as a strength. It is understood that the system needs extremists to think outside the box, to be the first to say out loud such awesome ideas as women’s right to vote, denial of slavery, protection of property, free prevention or basic income. Our problem, therefore, is not extremism, but political violence: politically motivated violence, the pursuit of political objectives by means of violence. Ultimately, democratic rights are always the rights of dissent, such as the right to walk on the streets without fear, to demonstrate and organise themselves to demand change. All of this is called into question by political violence. Mr President! People are not killed by nationalism, not by anarchism, not even national socialism, but by other people. That is why even political violence is prevented by identifying actors, not by round-the-clock saluting from extremist movements. You have to name who hits you, who encourages you to hit you, and who pays you to hit you. There are some extremist groups in Finland who accept and use violence. However, political violence does not have to be organised in the traditional sense. For example, there is reason to believe that several bottle attacks on reception centres were designed and carried out by one person, even though they were preceded by a background story built on racist online publications and chat rooms. We already have the legislation needed to curb political violence. Violence has been criminalised in Finland, as have hate speech and the financing of criminal activities. Fortunately, it is still such a small phenomenon that intervention cannot depend on resources either. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is more misleading than it is to link political violence with exclusion. Too easily it misleads us to label poor people as potentially dangerous repans. It is clear that the increase in inequality weakens social ties and increases crime statistics. Instead, it does not have an unambiguous relationship with political violence. It is therefore plausible that political violence will be avoided by raising income support or encouraging school drop-outs — both good projects in themselves. This is a complex phenomenon that combines the thinning of the middle class with the possibilities of new technologies and the erosion of historical memory. Mr President! To be honest, Finnish politicians find themselves confused in the face of political violence. We have no routine, no correct words, no certainty of saying them at the right time. It is no credit to us, but perhaps it is better this way. Finland is still a country where there is little international comparison of political violence and where it does not have support for large sections of the population, where you can run into a minister in the subway or a president in a hot dog kiosk. That's a great thing. However, we do not have a non-violent political culture that is self-evident. Even back in the 1940s, my great-aunt was kicked out because of communist writings and my great-uncle was shot as a pacifist. Since then, Finland has had to travel a long way. Fortunately for us today, politics is no longer a serious security risk. Let us now make wise decisions so that it will never happen again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u8	Värderade Talman! Vi måste våga ställa frågan vad som har gått fel i Finland när en nazistisk organisation och en av organisationens frontfigurer, som är känd hos polisen från tidigare, tillåts sprida sitt diskriminerande och demokratifientliga budskap på nätet, uppmanar till militant träning med vapen och våldför sig — denna gång på en förbipasserande persono, Jimi Kartttunen, så att han dör. Till hans anhöriga viärföra vårt deltagande i sorgen. Värderade Talman! För att travestera på kampanjsloganen om att allt handlar om economist säger vi: It's about xenophobia, stupid! Ett skifte i den politiska map verkar ha sketch i Europa och USA. Rasism och rädsla för invandring har givit oss Trump, brexit och en helt ny nationalistiskt färgad politik — för att citera Zack Beauchamp i tidskriften Vox. Hos oss har detta skifte gett en regering med sannfinländarna. Det är uppenbart att det i den sannfinländska partiapparaten och riksdagsgrupen finns personer som har kontakt och öppet sympathiserar med högerextremismen, rent av med denna nazistiska extremrörelse som nu är i focus. Det är något som svenska riksdagsgruppen starkt tar avstånd från.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u10	Next up, Minister Risiko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u11	Madam President! The government, like the absolute majority of the Finnish people, condemns all violence, hate speech and racism. A week ago, the government decided that violent extremists are being tackled extensively and effectively, both through legislative and other measures and by strengthening the resources of the authorities. The legality of violent extremist associations or associations will be clarified. The Police Board has already started working with the National Prosecutor’s Office to clarify the operating responsibilities and models under the Association Act. At the same time, preparations have been started for action to combat hate speech. Legislative measures will also be launched. The Ministry of Justice will initiate an evaluation to amend the notification procedure in accordance with the Assembly Act. For its part, the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, will launch an evaluation aimed at prohibiting the use by law of the signs of violent extremism that have been abolished. So these are new measures. Efforts have been made to prevent violent extremists from operating in a systematic manner since 2012. In April 2016, a second National Action Programme against Violent Radicalisation and Extremism was adopted. The aim of the programme is to intervene in a timely and correct manner in the activities of violent extremists. For example, as an approach to this type of Ankkuri activity carried out by police services throughout the country. There have been online police activities in Finland for nearly ten years now, and there have been very good experiences. Visible police action also increases the security of citizens in social media. It is clear that there is a need for more resources for everything that has been mentioned here. This phenomenon is not just being overcome with good will. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice will draw up a proposal for a supplementary budget. Mr President! All violence and hate speech are reprehensible. Hate speech is a breeding ground for extremism and violence. We must not forget that words can also be used to hurt people and that people are also being abused online. Mental abuse is a very short journey from physical abuse. Instead of dialogue, hate speech seeks confrontation. Disdainful words can provoke the same response and measure and deepen the cycle of evil. This is something our society cannot and must not accept. Public action is only one element in preventing and combating violence and hate speech. The public debate and every citizen involved in it are important. Each of us has a responsibility to show that we do not accept violence, racism or hate speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u12	Madam President! This initiative has been signed by representatives of all parliamentary parties, i.e. all of them. This is an important message. The rule of law and democracy, they are common values, and defending them is a common task. The message of the measures adopted by the government last week against extremism is also clear: the actions of all violent extremists and openly racist organisations are reprehensible. No form of violence should be tolerated. It is essential that the activities of extremists are immediately addressed by means of legislation already in force. Violent or racist organisations, including unregistered organisations, can be abolished under the Association Act. The continuation of the activities of the cancelled association is punishable. The Criminal Code also contains provisions to intervene in this activity. Racist groups are likened to other organised criminal groups. However, legislative means alone are not enough, but it is also essential that the social climate does not provide a breeding ground for any kind of extremism. We in this Chamber still have much to learn about respect for each other's opinions, and we still talk too much past each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u15	The debate will continue with two-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u16	Mr President! It is really great that the government has already shown, in the past and with this debate, that it is quite clear that it is opposed to the action of violent political extremists and to the rise in support. We really must work decisively to eradicate all forms of extremism that use violence. Of course, this work requires so-called hard-core internal security measures, such as the police, but it is also a very important factor in how our young people can. Above all, we must pay attention to their exclusion. Today, however, we have spoken very little about the fact that there are not only neo-Nazis but also other extremists who have committed crimes in Finland. In rural areas, for example, it has long been wondered why, among other things, the attacks on farms by animal activists have not given rise to a wider debate. If, therefore, we want all extremism to be unequivocally condemned, then we must also take account of all these different activities and condemn all violence against people or property on political grounds. Otherwise, this debate will not appear credible either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u17	Mr President! It is a very good thing that this previous speech specifically raised the fact that this applies to all extremist organisations. There was talk of this language. People have at least asked me what hate speech is. At least, according to the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, hate speech includes intolerance and hatred. That is why I would like us to discuss this once in a while, so that the citizens too know what these terms mean, because now many people feel that there is really nothing to talk about. I also hope for responsibility from an academic group. This week the professor of Åbo Akadem came out with his very pointed speeches. He cursed — I don’t want to repeat this here in Parliament — called us demons in Parliament who can’t count. He bragged that he could be watery, talk ppp, anything. And finally, if we criticize him even a little, we can smell ppp and beep. So I'm gonna ask you where this conversation culture is going. I'd like to call some academics to think that this is what this is going to be. In fact, I was thinking that if this became a normal language, would I also start here that: I am very pleased that this has come to the debate. Here today I heard — and I found it very regrettable — that another Member of Parliament has been appointed a Nazi. I do not want to name them, but I hope that these people will come forward themselves and tell them whether this is proper behaviour in the parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u18	Mr President! Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior Risiko, for taking these measures immediately and starting to prepare. It was also important as a signal effect, but it was also important to take concrete measures to eradicate extremist organisations from this country. Here too, we must give all the government parties a big confession and thank you for bringing together a common front right away. There was nothing unclear about the fact that everyone was not involved. I'm sure there's no need for anyone to guess or ask. One question mark, of course, is why certain extremist organisations have not already been dealt with in time, even if the law makes it possible. In other words, there must be more and more attention and attention on its toes in the future, also in this activity of the authorities. Good speeches were made here in the opposition's group speeches, which highlighted the fact that speeches are also deeds. And that is what we must all remember in this Chamber, but also when we talk to the citizens and the citizens get the message of what, for example, the role of an individual citizen is in this. It is not to be silent if a neighbor or a friend starts using hate speech or behaves inappropriately. In other words, harnessing civil society, involving the responsibility of every human being, is in fact the most important way to eradicate this hate speech and aggression in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u19	Mr President! It is good that these serious issues are being discussed today. All of us Finns share a shared responsibility for the mental climate and the state of democracy in our country. It is quite clear that the wider people feel that they are involved with others and that there is a chance of decent life, and the less poverty and inequality, the less there is an echo for extremism and political violence. There should be no room for violent extremism in Finland, not from any direction. These extremist movements should not be protected by wind. That is what all of us parties and individual parliamentarians have a shared and individual responsibility for. Mr President! Congressman Timo Harakka has taken an initiative on the Internet police. This initiative is to be welcomed, because hate speech in the social media is a powerful breeding ground for political violence. This would be a concrete means of combating violent extremism, their breeding ground. I'm glad the government's taking up this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u20	Mr President! Political violence and neo-Nazisism must have no place in Finland. Finland has experience of what incitement to hatred and incitement to violence can lead to. In the '30s The Lapua movement committed violence, kidnapped and even killed people, but the official Finland ignored this until Hakkila, Vice-President of Parliament, and our first president, Ståhlberg, were driven. If it had not been for a wake-up call to condemn the violence of the Lapua movement, Finland might not have acted as a united nation in World War II as it did. Now in Finland, hate speech has spread, escalated and become more commonplace, first online, where speeches were spread, which in the old days were mainly from the drunken at the bar. First, they were presented under the cover of a nickname, now you see people already spreading blatant racism and even death threats under their own name. Thus hate speech is as if normalized. This has been ignored for far too long, even though hatred against groups of peoples has been a long time in our penal code, as has the fact that punishment has been hardened for a long time by being part of an organised criminal group and a racist motive. It is good that the government has now promised to take measures to ensure that these existing laws are actually complied with. It is good that the police are given more resources, for example, to curb online hatred. Mr President! We must be able to discuss any social issue, but it must:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u21	Mr President! I think these solutions put forward by the government to tackle extreme right-wing violence are very good. As far as I am concerned, the problem is not with legislation but with implementation, and that is precisely why it is extremely good that more attention is being paid to it in the future. I personally think it is particularly important to take a closer look at the fact that hate motives are recorded in the context of criminal investigations. It is important to get a comprehensive picture of how common hate crimes are in Finland and also because the courts can then take these hate motives into account. But in addition to this, we should also consider concrete ways, for example, to support people who seek to leave such violent political groupings. I remember a few years ago when I got a call from a mother who was worried that her son had been activated in a neo-Nazi group like this. He asked me what he had to do in this situation or who he had to turn to, and I could not really answer. In Sweden such exit projects have been going on since the 1990s, but in Finland the first similar has only started since the beginning of this year, i.e. it is now only starting in the autumn, and this funding for this project is only one year. I would now like to ask the government whether we should not also pay attention to such policies so that we can support people who are trying to get rid of such groups. Finally, I would also like to thank all the speakers who have stressed the importance of the speech as an instrument of power and how we can all contribute to what this political and social climate is like in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u22	Värderade Talman! När man använder politiskt våld, dessutom med dödlig utgång, finns det inga förmildrande omständigheter, ingen ursäkt och ingenting att bortförklara. Brottet måste entydigt fördömas. För mig är det faktiskt så att om man bekänner sig till en ideologia som redan historiskt begått fruktansvärda brott mot mänskligheten är det redan en sak som jag tycker att man ska fördöma. Det finns ingenting att ämta på den skräphögen. Samhällsclimatet har lett till att gränsen för det som är acceptabelt språkbruk har flyttats allt längre ut mot intolerantens, hatretorikens och rasismens stinkande sumpmarker. Vi har alla ett ansvar för att it till att den utvecklingen nu vänder.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u23	Madam President! Everyone, of course, has the right to political opinion and conviction under the Constitution, but that freedom is certainly not unlimited in terms of its conduct and actions, for it always affects other people. Hate speech, racism, anti-Semitism, extremism, they do not enjoy any protection from a democratic society. And we, as political decision-makers, must also take our own responsibility for the way we express ourselves here. At the heart of Christian democracy is the Christian human image, the idea that the human dignity of every human being is inalienable and indivisible, and also the teaching that another person is a neighbor, whether he is a different believer or a different ethnic group. Common humanity involves respect for another person, even if he thinks quite differently about things, not to mention respect for the life and dignity of another person. We must work together to ensure that the value base of this society clearly preserves respect for another person and the idea of neighbourliness. A generation of veterans taught us that with the thought of "no friend left behind." We need to look around and think about who the guy today who is at risk of being sidelined and take into account the people at risk of social exclusion and the people who have been mistreated. Madam President! It is not just legislation and better supervision that we can bring about this change, but, above all, the value base of society, in which the Christian Democrats want to work together with everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u24	Madam President! There has been no basis for extremism in Finland as much as in the rest of the world. Finland is still a safe country. For there are not many countries in a world in which children can safely walk to school without parents. I think it is telling a lot about our country that this issue is being discussed here too strongly and seriously. Racism should therefore be treated with this seriousness, zero tolerance. The rise in extreme movements is a complex phenomenon, as we know very well. Important ways to prevent it are, however, work, active life, hobbies, acceptance and knowledge of history. No one will allow these phenomena to grow if you know our history, both Finland and the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u25	Madam President! Finland is a good country to live in. Our country's legislation imposes rights and obligations on those who live and live in our country. No one shall have privileges. Nobody. Obeying the laws of our country gives you legal protection and justice, literally. This is why I do not understand the people who take justice into their own hands by publicly taking up our laws, spreading hate speech, breaking common property, burning police cars and throwing stones at the police. Once caught up in these acts, they take for granted that they have the same legal right to legal protection and even a free trial. In my opinion, we should have a clear zero tolerance in society for all violence, vandalism and hate speech, not just political violence. The task of the police is to maintain public order and security. The police need better resources to succeed in a demanding task. Unfortunately, a few Internet cops aren't enough. I hope that this good government will find additional funding for the police so that all police officers and their posts who are still in fixed-term employment can be established. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u26	Madam President! We have a neo-Nazi, racist organization in Finland that has several acts of violence on its account and now, obviously, also the death of a young man. We also have violent anarchists who, in their various events and riots, are happy and often attacking the police. In Finland, an organization can be abolished, which acts essentially against the law. It is ultimately up to the courts to evaluate and apply this legislation, but I think it is important that this is now being evaluated. I personally see that the conditions for bringing an action against the neo-Nazi organisation, for example, are in place. Of course, I do not imagine that the Nazis will cease their activities if the organization is dissolved, but it is an important message from the whole of society about what they think of their activities. On the other hand, you can ask what silent message is involved if open racist and Nazi organisations are allowed and their activities are allowed. The resources of the police must also be taken care of. Resources alone are not enough, we also need powers. For example, the Finnish police should have all the powers that are possible under the European rule of law in the field of intelligence. Madam Speaker! I do not want Nazis or anarchists on the streets, but at the moment I do want ordinary people on the streets to protest against what Russia is currently doing in Ukraine and Syria.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u27	Mr President! Many here have said that responsibility belongs to all of us. I would like to add that the responsibility rests with us all and with us decision-makers in particular. All the parliamentary groups here have stated that power can only be exercised in this country by means of a mandate through democracy. I very much welcome the fact that all the parliamentary groups are committed here. Next time we will have democratic elections in this country next spring, when we select municipal decision-makers in all Finnish municipalities. I think it is very important that all parties demand a commitment from their candidates to act for a society free from racism. So far, other parliamentary parties have announced that they will require this from their candidates, but the Party Secretary of the Finnish Government has announced that the Finns of Finland do not require a commitment against racism from their municipal candidates. I find it quite intolerable that a party in the country's government does not make such a requirement for its candidates for municipal elections. It raises the question: why did I do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u30	Mr President! Thank you for a good conversation. A lot of things have been said here and it is good to join in. When we talk about the extreme right or talk about political violence, then we must also talk about racism. So much has been said in this Chamber about racism and there is a common feeling that it is absolutely unacceptable and we do not accept it. But that is not enough, but we must then also talk about what racism is, what we do not accept, how we can identify, how it is expressed in society and what concrete steps we can take to eliminate it. Racism is an outsider from society. It's also the violence. It is to carry shame or fear in relation to your own story. When you think about your own future, that road is not as open as that person next door. When we talk about racism, it is also structures, and then it is legislation, and then we in this House must be extremely precise about what kind of legislation we create or what kind of legislation we maintain and whether it implements the value base in which, for example, we absolutely say 'no' to racism. One good current example of this is the integration law under discussion, which clearly puts different groups of people in Finnish society on an unequal footing, and then we are already creating structures that also enable the social culture which may also possibly give rise to racism, or can even create political violence. When we look at this integration law, we have been guided by this element of attraction, which is a lot to be talked about, which is certainly something the government must balance with, but we must be careful, for if we start not to direct legislation through values, for example, through attraction factors, then suddenly we end up in a situation where we have lost its value and we make choices and legislation on another route. And who will then cherish the value base on which this society is built? Who will then uphold the absolute fact that we in this Chamber are saying that racism is not absolute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u31	Madam Speaker! We have clearly prohibited violence in the legislation — that is a crime. Instigation against the people is also clearly defined as a crime, and belonging to such an organised criminal group is also a crime. In addition, the racist motive, that is, the motive, is the basis for hardening penalties. And what would such a racist motive be? International agreements clearly state that if a crime is committed because of race, colour, origin, national origin, ethnic origin, it is racism, and it has been committed as a racist crime. In addition, hate crime can still be dealt with if it is motivated by sexual orientation or religion. So, in itself, our legislation should be perfectly in order. Secondly, I would like to raise a wide-ranging debate here on freedom of expression and how it has become obsolete on the Internet, how it has become self-evident to accept the most amazing definitions of other groups of people or other people. Here too, our legislation and our constitution are quite clear: freedom of expression is a fundamental right, but it does not justify trampling on other fundamental rights. Of course, other fundamental rights are the right to life and personal integrity, but in the same way equality and equality. In addition, there is a prohibition of discrimination in the Constitution, which must not be violated by freedom of expression. There is no discrimination because of gender, not because of origin, not because of language, not because of religion, and, above all, there is a duty on the part of the public to ensure that fundamental rights are implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u32	Värderade fru talman! Det kunns helt ofattbart och ogreppbart med politiskt våld i vårt land. Det måste bli ett slut på att inte ta organisationer som Finska motståndsrörelsen på fullaste allvar. Motståndsrörelsen glorificerar utomparlamentariska methoder, strävar effecter att kullkaa rådande rättsbaserade samhällsordning och använder våld för att nå sina politiiska mål. Vi måste också stalla oss frågan varför unga män — för det är oftast Män — väljer attaktivera sig i den ox nitrogens organisationer och blir nynazister. Jag har själv besökt Auschwitz, jag har sett lastplatsen till Treblinka i Warszawa. De är fasansfulla platter där en del av det mest fasansfulla nazisterna gjorde begicks. Hur någon effecter förintelsen kan läja att bli nynazist är svårt att förstå. Vi måste minnas historians. Men det visar hur viktigt det är att vi inte låter ungdomar falla utanför samhällets skyddsnät, och att vi hjälper dem som riskerar att trilla ur. Vi har alla, vi politiker i synnerhet, ett ansvar att kraftigt ta avstånd från rasism och våld. Vi har alla öjlighet att också göra skillnad genom att inte, medvetet eller omedvet, fiska upp motsättningar i samhället. Jag tror att vi behöver mer medmänsklighet, humanism och respekt i debatten, både i det riktiga livet och i sociala medier, för sociala medier är inte en parallellväld, de är på riktigt. Det känns hemskt att en ung Människa ska behöva bli ihjälslagen för att samhället ska stanna upp och reflexera. Det rauh får inte bli business as usual. Inga undanflykter kan rättfärdiga att en oskyldig person parkas ihjäl. Nuräcker det.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u33	Madam President, värderade fru talman! Det lämpar sig bra att jag fortsätter med min taltur effecter riksdagsledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u34	Madam President! First of all, thank you for the debate so far. I would really like — and I was prepared to answer there, but I may not go to them now — to challenge this Chamber in the fact that we are talking about extremism, we are talking about hate speech and violence, but what I think has not yet been discussed in this debate, and I think that this is an essential point, in my thoughts, is the concerns and sorrow of a normal person. When they come to the election tent — I am speaking now as a Peruvian — they usually start that ‘I am not a racist, but...’, and then they ask us what will be given to these people when they come here, and then we try to answer it to the best of our ability. If we do not answer, it leads to rumours, it leads to speculation and mud, and I have always tried to be transparent in this action, that the good side and the bad side of the ministry will also be told openly, because I think that this is the only way we can get rid of them and things like that, at least for less that we can't imagine things, but the real basis of the facts. There is absolutely nothing we can do about extremism — we have criminal law, and we have to deal with it, they must be condemned — but in relation to this large, silent majority, which is one of the sensible people, as Mr Haavisto said in his own fine speech: this is, in my opinion, the biggest problem we are going to be able to say all this openly, because it is the only way to loosen these suspicions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u35	Secretary Risikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u36	Madam President! Thank you for these comments and lunches also to the government. The current legislation therefore provides us with a good framework, that is quite clear. Implementation must be stepped up, as we have said ourselves. We had an excellent analysis by the Minister of Justice and the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, and it was concluded that implementation must now be addressed. New measures are also needed, and I have just told you about those. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior have joined forces to prepare them, and we will be making these assessments in a timely manner now, even during this autumn. If there is a need for legislative intervention, for clarification, for clarification, perhaps for clarification of application, then it will also be done. Prevention and early intervention are, of course, the best of all. After all, we have Ankkuri, which is a multi-professional activity in the police departments, and it is good that it is now being spread everywhere. Then reference was made to how the people involved would be able to get out of there if they wanted it, and they themselves would see that this would be better. At the beginning of this year, we have launched the Radinet action, in which people involved in violent extremism are supported by various support measures to break away from violent activity. That is an excellent thing. Especially pleased... You could always list what's been done and what's being done, but it's not the case alone. These are all needed, but the thing is that we all wonder what I can do, what you can do as ordinary citizens. We all have a responsibility, it has risen in this debate, and I think that is the most important thing here. For there is a danger that when there is so much, a person will become numb to it and quietly accept it. It's a disaster for this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u37	Debates were already asked so much that the rest of the time will be spent with one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u38	Madam President! When we talk about extremism and the violence they have done, we can say that, fortunately, we have this type of political violence which we could say is limited. For the time being, we have also avoided the serious acts of terrorism that Europe has faced in the past summer. However, recent events show us that democracy and a free society are not taken for granted. It has been fought for by generations that have passed in Finland, and we must constantly fight for it. We must not submit to cowardly acts of terrorism against innocent people, nor to any form of violence. Freedom of expression and open civil society must also be defended through international cooperation. Finland is also involved in this work and must be. It is a work of peace, and it is done with respect for human rights. Mr President! It is good that this Chamber is now sending out a united message for freedom and democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u39	Mr President! The debate today has been mainly of high quality and the speeches and group speeches have been very good. However, it is my sad duty, as leader of the Group of the Finns Party, to respond to some of the substandard comments that have been made here in our direction. I am referring, for example, to the group speech by the RKP. In all my friendship, however, not everything that is of the kind to you is racism. This is not the way to start a process where every movement fully committed to democracy represents racism if it represents a different opinion. It is then that we are moving in the direction of extremism. The second question concerns the commitments of our municipal candidates. Each of our candidates is committed to dignified conduct, which, I believe, also includes the fact that there is no racist action or exit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u40	Mr President! The joint initiative of parliamentary groups on extremism and political violence is very welcome. I hope that for its part will bring all of us now to this development, which, unfortunately, has only gone worse in recent years. I hope and encourage all of us to read that initiative thoroughly and to stick to it unanimously. That initiative says that Finland is a country in which every human being is equal. The principle is based on human rights treaties and our own constitution. President! Unfortunately, however, last night there was a debate in this Chamber about the equality of people. Now is the time to understand that violence does not appear out of the blue. There is a path that starts with the denial of human rights, which continues with the acceptance of hate speech and ends up in political violence. If we do not turn this way, we will lose everything that has been sacrificed and worked for in our precious country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u41	Madam President! Thank you for your excellent contributions. I would like to raise one detail in this debate, which is a skill and an opportunity to read. Reading teaches empathy, teaches respect for the language, culture, history of others. It's hard to think rationally if you can't read. It's hard to speak rationally if you can't read. It is difficult to write sensibly and tactfully if you do not have the opportunity to read. Social media, where this tactless writing often occurs, wants to be a little distorted by its name: social media seems to be more antisocial media, epsome and not social media. I encourage the government to take all the measures that make it possible to promote good mother tongue, Finnish or Swedish or some other language, learning and reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u42	Madam President! Big ideas and important things have been heard here today. Many times we have heard that racism, hate speech and, in particular, violent movements are now being tackled extensively, effectively and immediately. However, I would like to lead this debate to its source, the railway station, where a member of the Finnish Resistance killed a young Finnish man. Many Finns are currently wondering what it means in this situation in a broad, effective and immediate manner. After the Ministry of Justice has said that a violent association can be abolished, what measures are now being taken to eliminate the Finnish resistance movement, which has repeatedly taken hold of violence?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u43	Madam President! During my 20-year parliamentary career, I have not experienced the kind of atmosphere I have experienced here today when I listened to group speeches. That serious reflection, that commitment to the fight against political violence, racism, was nothing short of a hobby. This gives a good foundation — the time for silence is really over. But it is important, as Minister Lindström said, how we move this forward. That the same spirit that was in all the group speeches today is every time we meet people on the streets, and the same message with the same determination, with the same commitment, we move forward. It has also been said here that words are deeds. So is the word. If an organization sets itself the goal of seeking the domination of the white race by violence and the destruction of the legal social system, then the means must be found immediately to put an end to such activity,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u44	Mr President! I think there has been a very interesting debate today, and I think there have been, for the most part, very important speeches. There is much talk and debate about the cause of the re-emergence of the extreme right in the world, and it is often thought that this is related to socio-economic reasons, as has been said here, or to the strategic need to seek out some common enemies. But in recent times there have also been theories that suggest that those on the extreme right are in fact most afraid of losing a relatively hierarchical status in society and attaching it to immigrants, to this fear of immigration, and they want to intimidate immigration. It is also important to discuss and consider small acts on the axis of racism and fear of immigration, whether they encourage or support racism or what they are based on. Yesterday, there was a debate in Parliament about a new government proposal specifically aimed at foreign unemployed people, that they should be given worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u45	Madam President! It is extremely alarming that there has been an increase in confrontation and that extremist movements in different directions have raised their heads. I think that we are also responsible for this development and that the media have contributed to this. When we keep cutting off the weak when it is difficult to get to work and, to put it mildly, coping with everyday life is challenging, it feeds bitterness, exclusion, radicalisation and it erupts into something. Racism can easily lift its head. The media have great power. The media also have the opportunity to inform constructively. If criticism of maladministration is always labeled as phobias or concerns about the situation in the country or the population and the debate about it is labeled as racist or in that direction, it does not serve peaceful, constructive coexistence. I hope for responsible, objective, constructive reporting and dealing with matters both in this Chamber and in the media. Journalists have a great opportunity to influence the future direction of the climate in the kingdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u46	Madam President! At this stage, I would like to remind us in the Chamber of the words of the late President, Mr Urho Kekkonen, who said: 'Freedom, which allows the abuse of civil liberties to continue until this abuse brings about the destruction of democracy, is not in harmony with the right democracy. Democracy must have the right to self-defense." All political violence must be said absolutely no, and a strong message must be sent from this Chamber that it is not possible to resist fur farming by burning buses and it is not possible that bystanders will be victims of violence at the time when neo-Nazis protest. I thank all the parliamentary groups for their fine words.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u47	Madam President! Now that we are talking here today about violent extremism and, in turn, condemn the attacks on both the left and the right fists, we must remember that, both in numbers and in threat, the most serious extremism is Islamic extremists. We have around 100 people in Finland who have fought or are now fighting in Syria or Somalia, for example, countries many of whom have come to Finland as a refugee from war. It is quite pointless to say that they have not yet struck here, at least in the name of this idea, and it is dangerous to believe that nothing will happen, but everywhere in Europe, where this population has grown, has already happened. And when a few representatives here earlier spoke of these attacks on Jews, it should also be noted that even the threat to the Jews, which is more serious than the extreme right, is the extreme Islamic movement in Europe today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u48	Mr President! Every path to something starts somewhere. I am concerned about people's behaviour in social media. There people are insulted and ridiculed, showing no respect for a person and no respect for his opinion. And then, by practicing in this way for several years, it feeds a certain - looking attitude and a certain - looking attitude toward one’s neighbor, and it is quite easy to guess that if these attitudes later take place, for example, in an extremist movement, what will result from it? I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, whether anything can be done about this problem — that is, every day seems to be getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u49	Mr President! The purpose of this debate has been to show that all groups want to condemn violence and hate speech, and that is a good thing. But it's not enough. We have to ask what each of us does in different qualities when we face hate speech online: do we remove it, or what do we do? What do we do when we meet in a tram or a bus stop insulting or pushing at someone else? Or what we will do if there are people in our own parliamentary group who photograph themselves with extremists
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u50	After the next speech, Minister Lindström was given the opportunity to respond. — Representative Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u51	Mr President! All forms of violence and vandalism are reprehensible, and it is important that we, as parliamentarians in this Chamber, including as Finns, act for peaceful development, democracy, the rule of law and the equality of people. And now that we are thinking in particular of this threat of racism and fascism to this country, we must remember that these are ideas in which equality of people is in principle called into question, partly by violent means. That is why this is a particular problem, and that is why, as political leaders, we also have the burden of value leadership to bear, that is, that we, through all our actions and speeches, demonstrate that we are defending the equality of people: in the laws, as citizens on the streets, when we here in Parliament are debating what we are doing. Mr President! I would also like to emphasise that Finnishness is at its best that it is inclusive that all of us together can breathe this air free in this country. And it was great to be at the Game Break demonstration when a Nigerian singer sang Eppu Normal and all different
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u52	Secretary Lindström, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u53	Mr President! Firstly, this hate speech and the regulation that Mr Eestilä raised. So that hate speech that is being punished is laid down in the penal code, and the central provision is mentioned here several times: incitement to the people. And so it is condemned by a person who spreads a message among the public threatening, slandering or insulting a group on a racist basis. Last year, 43 of these incitements against the people came to the attention of the police, and that number has been on the increase. And the number of crimes dealt with by the courts has varied from a few paragraphs to less than twenty. This, of course, proves, on the one hand, the unfortunate fact that there has been more, but, on the other hand, that this law also works and that these matters are being addressed. There should be no ambiguity in their application. Then this intervention in racist groups. It is primarily through the Association Act that we can intervene. And last week, or recently, as part of measures against extremists, the government decided that the implementation of the Association Act would indeed be stepped up, and the Police Government and the Public Prosecutor considered the conditions for bringing an action for its abolition in respect of an unregistered association known as the Finnish Resistance. At the moment there is no information on how high that threshold for the abolition of this kind of association is, because none of these types of actions have been filed during the current Association Act. Well, on the one hand, this is the action that is being assessed here, but the abolition of an association is interfering with the freedom of association protected by the Constitution and, of course, this has to be balanced, which is why this threshold for abolition cannot be very low.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u54	Mr President! It is important that there is a strong and united message from this Chamber that political violence, like other violence, is not allowed in this country. The authorities must intervene strongly in movements that use political violence. It is now of particular importance to intervene at last in the activities of the extremist right-wing, neo-Naziist Finnish resistance movement, which, in addition to the suspected death penalty, already has gas strikes and stabbings in its accounts. A key factor on the road to political violence is a constructive speech on the legitimacy of violence. Political violence follows the legitimacy built upon it by speech and politics, and this justification is generally built up by people different from those who are encouraged to act on it. This should be remembered and understood by our decision-makers and other social influences. In politics, words are deeds, and our words can have either an act of political violence or a repressive effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u55	Madam President! I would like to pay tribute to the government for last week's approach to tackling violent extremism, to the fact that legislation is now being seriously applied and rigorously addressed, and then, on the one hand, to the resources and conditions of these authorities. When Minister Risikko said that the government is now preparing a supplementary budget proposal on the resources of the security authorities, I would now like to call on all the parliamentary groups in this Chamber during the last parliamentary term to undertake not to reduce the number of police officers. And that is why I call for the threat that police numbers are now approaching that 7000 border to be rejected together. Security is
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u56	Mr. Mika Kari, then Minister Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u57	Madam President! It is good that here in Parliament today, in clear terms, we have renounced violence and hate speech. It also sounded good to me, as Mr Uotila said earlier, that attention has also been paid here to Parliament's own debate, to the way in which the political debate takes place in Parliament. However, I would like to draw attention to this statement by Mrs Räsänen on police resources. Political violence is a very small form of crime in Finland, and the resources of the police directly are not related to this issue. In that respect, I would like to say that the Social Democrats have also proposed an increase in the budget for the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u58	Secretary Risikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u59	Madam President! They asked about the resources of the police, and now I want to answer: After all, we have been told in the report last spring that there should be at least the 7,000. Well, I personally think that the word "minimum" is really important in it, because there will always be new needs and that 7,000 will not be enough. Since there is not so much money in the framework at the moment, I have already said on many occasions that in the last budget debate I have already raised this issue, and that next spring we will have to have that framework correction, but we also need additional resources now, because we currently have about 7200 police officers and only about 7 people are unemployed, which means that we do not actually have a reserve anywhere. Now the situation is that we now have a deadline of some 200 people at the end of the year, which everyone is aware of here in the house, and now we are supposed to be able to keep the 200 deadlines still, because we will need them. That is why we are now making a supplementary proposal. This is also an online police activity, which the Police Government has taken up very quickly, and that resources will be increased, and then, of course, those additional resources will be needed. Then we're also going through the whole chain with the Justice Department. And now I want to say that money alone is not going to solve this, because we also need to think about the division of labour between the police. At the moment, police are catching cases where other services do not work: if substance abuse services do not work, the police will catch; if mental health services do not work, the police will catch. All in all, we need to get this division of labour in order. Then, today, in public, I would like to say that there is such a strange thing going on that we are now reducing the police network. That's not true. Last spring, we've been working on a police network.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u60	Mr President! When it comes to violence, racism, and hatred in different forms, it is, after all, talk about social peace in the deep sense of the word. I think it is important that the social, mental and moral foundations of social peace can be strengthened in every way possible together. Then it also includes the fact that the decision-makers in their own activities and speeches in this room, by example, show that there can be a difference of opinion, and must be, in a respectful tone. Schools, schools, and homes in this respect have quite a basic meaning and, in the building of the atmosphere, the aim is to build social peace, and the media are not outside this requirement either. There's no one in the bleachers on these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u61	Mr President! It is good that we should discuss what should be done to organisations such as the Finnish Resistance. Until now, Finland’s line has been to monitor and to some extent tolerate, it is hoped that the activity will collapse in its own impossibility. According to political violence investigator Leena Malk, it also has its own wisdom, because oversized countermeasures are a highly radicalising factor. Just as if movements from different directions are handled differently in relation to what these movements do. It is now up to us politicians to say strongly that our political system does not include the use of political violence. Then we have to look for concrete measures to prevent this violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u62	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the ministers for their good openings and colleagues for the debate. I particularly welcome the opening of Minister Risiko, the 200 police officers whose deadline expires at the end of the year. That's $14.3 million, I think, that's more money, and I'm glad you can find it. And it's great to see that the Internet police are getting stronger. But now we have to remember that if you find something online, then you need to have a dead-end investigation, and if you find something that affects the airport, then you need police in uniform to prevent these riots, that you should not forget this important issue. But it's a great thing that the minister has taken a catch on this. But on that side of the Attorney General, I'd like to say: These specific articles on this organised criminal group are quite clear, but where there is doubt there is that Article 1a of Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code, Participation in organised crime groups. It has been slightly changed during this government period, but it is still not, according to operators, police officers and prosecutors, that it will have that willful aspect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u63	Madam President! It is important that all Finns and Parliament stop at the events we have seen recently in Finland. There should be no place for the Finnish resistance movement, nor for any organisation that systematically uses violence to achieve political objectives, as there should be no violence of any kind in Finnish society. The Government’s guidelines on more efficient implementation are easy to support. There is, for example, an intervention in this online hate speech, something that was presented in the SDP last spring, and there are many others there. It is precisely this more effective intervention that is very good. But then the ministers have stressed a great deal that what we can all do and it is excellent that all of us parties signed this Charter against Racism. The Charter states that the parties themselves also undertake to act in such a way that everyone involved in the activities and campaigns,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u64	Mr President! I would like to raise one point which has not yet been raised in the debate. It is the use of our national symbols, which these extreme right-wing or ultra-nationalist movements easily want to own: the Finnish flag, the coat of arms of Finland. Starting with these Finnish flags on skin sleeves and acting violently. We have seen this phenomenon around the world: in England, football hooligans tried to take Union Jack away from the flag of Norway, some of Breivik’s supporters have tried to make such a symbol of Breivik’s support. It is very important that, now that Finland is preparing for the centenary year, that we adhere to these national symbols, we feel that they are all symbols, we do not accept that they are connected to violent or extreme behaviour anywhere. I propose to the members of the Government that, in connection with the 100th anniversary of Finland, special attention be paid to this, that national symbols be returned to all of us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u66	Mr President! I wanted to mention once again, when Mr Lindström spoke of a silent majority, that I think it is important to take into account the fact that these extreme right-wing movements pose a threat not only to minorities in this country but to all of us and to the democratic system of our society as a whole. After this stabbing by the Finnish resistance movement in Jyväskylä, I had to respond for a long time to the messages they sent me from young underage people who asked me if they dared to participate in the activities of the left-wing youth, whether they dared come to our debates in libraries, whether they dare to participate in party politics at all, be on the market, sharing political material on the streets. This, in my opinion, is precisely the greatest threat that such movements pose to our society, and that is the real democratic threat that they represent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u67	Madam President! Parliament exercises legislative powers and should exercise them sovereignly. The government must take measures to prevent crime, racism, violence in all its forms. Good speeches have been made here in exactly this direction, and there is a unanimous support from the Finnish Parliament for this. In particular, I would like to thank Mrs Haavisto for her group statement, which contained a good analysis and conclusions, but also for the idea that these national symbols are in the right place for what they are meant to be. We can all do something. My late father once said — I saw him very rarely moved, but once he said it — that a boy in the village had found out in the village of Tyrenmäki that you have good boys, they have never teased me. I mean, the guy that a lot of people teased. Somehow then came the feeling that there has been here, that what we can all do. What can we do for someone who is being bullied, maligned, used as a victim through violence?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u68	Mr President! This debate initiative is very important, it is certainly everyone's opinion. Mainly, the debate has been very constructive. Working together has been the strength of Finnish society. In times of difficulty, in particular, it must be firmly adhered to. No form of violence or intimidation of extremists, whether right or left, or from anywhere, should be given room. Our best weapon to eradicate this kind of activity is open dialogue, respect for democratic rules and the ability of the authorities to act. Work must also be stepped up to prevent exclusion and in the field of mental health work. Because well - being and active people rarely go along with extremism. I would ask the government what plans have been made to strengthen mental health services, especially for young people. In part, Minister Risikko has already responded to it. And I would also like to thank Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u69	One last speech before the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u70	Mr President! There has been a very clear tone here, particularly in group speeches, and indeed in all speeches, so we now want to put a stop to the use of violence and also to this kind of hate speech, which stimulates action against other groups of peoples. It has been a very important observation, and I believe that this radiates throughout society. At the same time, it is appropriate to see why we are here. As Mr Kontula said, we need to talk precisely about who did what. We are here because a young man who later died has been kicked into the street in front of the railway station in Helsinki, and behind this act is this Finnish resistance activist and this movement has a dark history: 2010 gas strike on the Pride procession, 2011 Oulu captures the active party, 2013 this stabbing of the library event in Jyväskylä,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u71	Then, to the end, for both ministers, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u72	Madam President! There have been good discussions here and thank you for that, and I think it is good to continue with this. We must not forget this debate which has been held here, but we must continue to do so. I said in my own speech that words can also be abused, a very serious matter. You can also abuse with words, and often it is such a short distance from that physical violence. What can we do? Above all, to prevent as parents, as adults, but also to tackle the process of exclusion and then break the cycle. This infectious disease can certainly be treated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u73	Minister Lindström, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u74	Madam President! Thank you for the conversation. Just in relation to Mr Tolvanen's involvement in this organised criminal group and the clarification of the law, of course these provisions of the criminal code are, as I have been told, deliberately written as such general and technological neutrals, but your message will, of course, be taken into consideration. At such a general level, Mr Haavisto raised the issue of these national identities. I myself saw as a lion's jewelry man, and when I have hair on a button leather, I can be confused with skinheads at some point. I'm definitely not a racist. Don't let your looks fool you. Thank you for the proper debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u75	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u76	Mr President! The Left Alliance does not share the Government's view of the competitiveness pact and the idea of running work into an economic recession and does not accept this bill. We note that even the previous reductions in employers' contributions, such as the reduction and subsequent abolition of employers' Kela contributions, have not significantly created new jobs, although reductions in employers' contributions are justified by this objective. A competitiveness pact was reached by threatening trade unions with forced laws that would have cut wages even more than the kiky agreement. The process was also influenced by unclear plans to promote local reconciliation. The current challenges facing the Finnish export industry will determine the high level of technology, education and competence of services and products produced in Finland, which the Government is also cutting in the 2017 state budget proposal. In the 2016 first CFO barometer, none of the respondents saw the competitiveness agreement having a significant impact on the competitiveness of their company. Jan Meyer, Director of Turku Shipyard, points out, among other things, that wage levels are not decisive, but the image of the whole business, investments, technological development and product quality. Mr President! In view of the above, I propose that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u77	Mr President! Let's have a real conversation. Mr Pekonen, are you and the Left-wing Union seriously of the opinion that in practice all Finnish economists are wrong when they believe that the Competitiveness Pact has a positive impact on Finland's employment development? Of course, different figures have been presented, because no one can know what the real meaning is then over the years, but as far as I have followed the debate, economists' estimates have moved somewhere between 20,000 and 45,000 new jobs. So, Mr Pekonen, a very serious question: have all the economists in Finland been mistaken in this assessment, and what expertise do you refer to?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u78	Mr President! Indeed, assessments of the impact on employment and the impact on economic growth in the short, medium or long term have been presented in a wide range of ways. But it has been said that next year's budget will reduce the competitiveness pact by 0.2%. As far as the competitiveness pact is concerned, I am in favour of a contractual society, I am in favour of tripartite preparation, but the policy of the basic bourgeois government to bring about the competitiveness pact did not represent tripartite preparation and did not represent the principles of the contractual society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u79	Mr President! Indeed, it must be said that this so-called competitiveness pact was not a very beautiful process, and it certainly had different procedures that could be described and one can say that there has been threats and pressure. On the other hand, Mr Zyskowicz's question is quite legitimate: However, this is now the key element in trying to stabilise the economy and build a better outlook for the future. It will allow for a longer period of peace in the labour market, the conditions for business, and will also inform the ordinary employee and household about future income developments, so the fact that this agreement, which is an agreement for 2 million people on working conditions, shows quite a lot of talent. I'm surprised this could happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u80	Mr President! Mr Uotila, the process which led to this agreement can be varied. And I do not deny the pressure of the government at all. I have also criticised the fact that holiday payments are only being cut from public workers. But regardless of this, I repeat my question that what is your expert, what you rely on when you say that you do not believe that this supports the employment development of Finland. As far as next year is concerned, everyone has stressed that these changes will have a delay and will not show up next year. Of course, the fact that I am in favour of this agreement does not mean that I do not consider all the other ways in which companies can improve their competitiveness and investment in research and innovation and so on to be important. Finally, the Greens, of course, whose
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u81	Mr President! There are also those economists who believe that by maintaining good negotiating relations, by maintaining a genuine contractual society, by contenting themselves with extreme wage developments in the coming years, while substantial wage increases are being made in the control countries of Sweden and Germany, this problem of cost-competitiveness, which we undoubtedly have, would have melted away in a short time. Now, this competitiveness pact, which was concluded in the face of blackmail, intimidation, pressure, is potentially also endangering the functioning of society and social relations in the longer term, and for them too, a price should be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u82	Mr President! We now have one small part of the decisions under the Competitiveness Pact under discussion. That process may not have been very beautiful or exemplary, but it shows a great desire for reconciliation and will in this society, and it also means a great peace in society for the future. And that is the reason why we Greens try to be constructive when we deal with these laws. However, we also very much hope that the discussion will highlight how these laws can be improved in the future and how the situation, the status of employees and equality can be taken forward, so that purchasing power will also be guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u83	And Mr Heinäluoma, and then Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u84	Mr President! Instead of this general criticism of occupational pension contributions, we could talk about many other issues relating to quality competitiveness, because that is where the real problem is that we lack products that others would be willing to buy. And then one could put that criticism to the government separately and also ask the social partners why the Emu buffers that were created in the past to respond to various unexpected cyclical situations have not been used. The whole idea was that it would be easier to adapt to indirect labour costs than to make wage reductions, which would lead to reduced purchasing power and thereby to a reduction in domestic demand and thus to greater unemployment problems. So we haven't talked about why this Emu buffer hasn't been used, why it hasn't been collected in good times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u85	Mr President! Mr Järvinen's speech was confusing. When this competitiveness pact was concluded, the Greens' chairman Ville Niinistö took a strong stand against the agreement, and he even succeeded in criticising the agreement and the right, that is to say, the aspects that Finnish Entrepreneurs had put forward, that is, the left, that is, the aspects that were put forward by the groups of employees' organisations which opposed the agreement. I now understood Mr Järvinen’s speech — or did I misinterpret it — so that you, with all his shortcomings, consider the competitiveness pact positive for Finland’s economy and employment development. What, then, is the position of the Greens, or is it what luxury the opposition can, of course, afford to be both for and against at the same time, depending on the public?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u86	Mr President! As such, it must be especially easy for me to be both for and against. We have, I am sure, all of us, criticised certain aspects of this kiky agreement, but we absolutely support and support the social peace it brings. Nevertheless, we will continue to say how we could have done this better when we come here to discuss, for example, the reduction of earnings-related unemployment allowance. We have our own proposal on how it could be implemented even more constructively in the future so that it really supports the treatment of unemployment in the best possible way and the employment of people, which is, of course, the ultimate purpose of the competitiveness pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u87	Mr President! Perhaps because of Mr Järvinen's savory, his speech was further confused. First of all... Shortening earnings-related unemployment benefit is not part of the competitiveness pact. On the contrary, employees' organisations have not accepted it and are not in favour of it. Second. All of us, myself, and I think that everyone in this Chamber will certainly have critical aspects of the individual aspects of the competitiveness pact. But have I now misunderstood the fact that I understood Mr Niinistö's exit right after the agreement was concluded, in such a way that the Greens are not in favour, do not agree with the competitiveness pact, as Mr Pekkonen of the Left-wing Union very clearly expressed their position here? In other words, the Greens will not accept, and this has been told to all employees who have been dissatisfied and to those entrepreneurs who have been dissatisfied with this agreement. And now, Mr Järvinen, is it clear that you are in favour of this agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u88	Mr President! We have in the Committee on Labour, for example, a reduction in the earnings-related daily allowance period from 500 to 400 days, and we have at least been presented with it as part of the competitiveness pact and the package. As far as the Greens' position on the competitiveness pact is concerned, let me say once again: That agreement did not come about very nicely, it is not in all respects the best possible, but we hope it will bring and believe that it will bring the social peace that has been sought and we respect it. Nevertheless, we also share our views when we consider them to be:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u89	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u90	Mr President! I support Mr Pekonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u91	Mr President! It is regrettable that there are so few people here, because indeed this occupational pension system, including payment policy, would give rise to a longer and more detailed debate. I have already referred to the need for flexibility in the use of occupational pension contributions according to the economic situation, and we need a major debate on this in society. We are now faced with a situation where, in good times when we should collect more of these payments, we are not going to buffer — which was agreed at the end of the 1990s — this additional funding is not going to be made because the employer is opposed to increases in payments and, as a result, these funds will be too low in terms of the opportunities of the good years. When there are bad times and it would make sense for economic conditions to allow for a temporary reduction in contributions, the wage and salary earners will be reluctant to do so, because there is a fear that they will then not be brought back to the right level and thus have an impact on the security of pensions. And that is how we are stuck in a situation where pension contributions do not work as a cyclically-adjusted element, as a helpful element in an economic situation, as envisaged when it comes to economic and monetary union. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of silence around this and there is no desire to talk about it. In its own actions, the government also chose this path from the assumption that the burden will be permanently transferred to the employees and the employer will be reduced accordingly, even though pension liabilities are, in principle, affecting both employers and employees. This bigger debate on how we operate in economic and monetary union would be necessary, and I hope that Parliament will at some point give it room.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u92	Mr President! The employment pension funds and their use, as originally intended, are indeed worthy of discussion, but these pension funds will certainly have to come back to this Chamber this autumn for other reasons, because some people believe that there is too much money and that they should actually be distributed on a very short time-frame. But as far as this competitiveness pact is concerned, I can record in the parliamentary minutes the mental injury that I suffered in the spring after the elections when the social agreement was discussed. I'm not telling you the place, but it was pretty close to the South Bank where I met very high-ranking employers' social partners. As the former head of the shipyard's confidence in the discussion of going to social contract negotiations, I said that I had a way of negotiating as one of the negotiators at the time that, when it is decided to enter into negotiations, both sides set negotiating targets. These objectives will then be negotiated, and sometimes there will be a situation between 50 and 50, sometimes between 40 and 60, but there will be negotiations on the basis of specific objectives. It was then that I was told that the situation had changed, that now there was only one side of the agenda. And since then, it has been terribly difficult to get me behind this blackmail, intimidation and pressure pact, which was created by the threat of employees being threatened that if you do not agree to a pre-set goal, then pensioners will be cut more, families with children will be cut more, unemployed people will be cut, and so on, or employees will be subjected to even more treatment than otherwise. So this is just an explanation for the fact that mental injury was already sustained in the spring after the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u93	Mr President! This competitiveness pact is one of the biggest economic and, of course, labour market policy solutions that will be taken during this parliamentary term. That is why I was left with this great deal of concern about the Greens' attitude towards this important agreement, which, as I have said before, is also, in everyone's view, a lot of shortcomings. There is a saying that cake cannot be both eaten and preserved, but it seems to me now that the Greens will succeed in doing this too. After all, during this parliamentary term they have at least done very well in the light of the Galvals, and it may be that there is an explanation here for the fact that confidence seems to be strengthening towards them. On the other hand, as soon as the agreement was concluded and when there was a lot of discontent, for example, in the often female jobs of the public sector and there was a lot of discontent among small entrepreneurs, for example, President Ville Niinistö — this is how I interpret it — gave the message that the Greens would not accept such an unfair agreement and justified it both from the point of view of the discontent of these women-dominated public sector workers and from the point of view of the discontent of these small entrepreneurs. However, now in this Chamber, the representative of the Greens, Mr Järvinen, has, I understand, said that although there are a lot of details in the agreement which the Greens feel should have dealt with differently — as I also believe and believe that Mr Heinäluoma thinks and many others — the Greens all agree with this result rather than the fact that it was not born. Well, then find out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u94	Mr President! This debate and the question raised by Mr Zyskowicz is indeed justified. After all, all parties must have a clear position on such a big issue, and its position must be the same here in Parliament's decision-making as it is in the public domain. It's a reasonable requirement. This agreement is, to date, the only part of the government's economic policy that has any significant significance, and it certainly also has the meaning of employment, although unfortunately at an early stage a minus mark, to which Mr Uotila referred here. In the longer term, as demand for Finnish products improves, we can expect a plus sign. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I believe that, in itself, this employment pension solution is not acceptable to everyone except the Left Alliance, which has left it out of it. So it may well be that even the Greens will accept this agreement in practical decision-making, even though the public Twitter or Facebook comments suggest otherwise. But here we already have experience of the fact that parties tend to develop slightly different responses to different media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u95	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 19/2016 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 30 September 2016. Now the debate continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u96	Mr President! There has been a very lively debate in society on the role and importance of Yleisradio for Finnish communication. A pluralist, objective communication of information is an important issue for democracy. It is important that people receive information from more than one source, can compare the reliability of that information and thus make their own independent decisions. The position of the public radio has been particularly significant since Lex Jahvet, since 1948. It was then made a conscious decision that the Finnish Broadcasting Company operates under the authority of the Parliament and that it is neither commandable nor commandable by the government. This was intended to secure independent journalism and its preconditions in a very important communication tool at the time. That is what has been done. That is why there was great concern when the Sipilä government started and when the government took unilateral decisions on the resources of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and so there was a threat that broadcasting legislation and practices would substantially change. After the debates and after some considerable criticisms, the working group of representative Arto Satose produced an important, unanimous proposal, in which the basic role of the Finnish Broadcasting Company could also be secured in this time period. And the financing solutions were created here unanimously. One part of this financing solution was the proposal that, contrary to the government's unilateral decision, broadcasting funding should be returned outside the frameworks approved by the Government. This is important in that the funding and operating costs of YLE cannot be used as a basis for what the government does in its other social policy. It has been a great surprise that this position is not included in the budget proposal before us. I asked about this last week, and I have not received an answer to it, and I hope that the representatives of the government parties present will tell you,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u97	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I remember when, a few years ago, when discussing the first report from the Finnish Broadcasting Company to Parliament on its activities, I made an in-depth speech in which I felt that the Finnish Broadcasting Company should make a documentary or documentary about its role in Finnish-based Finland and promote its role in Finnish-based Finland, mainly in the 1970s, which, in my opinion, was the worst time in this respect, and that was when this development really took on a lot more rounds. I felt that YLE owes this to the Finnish people because during the years of the Finnish Broadcasting System in its own programmes, YLE lied to the Finnish people, for example, about the everyday reality of the Soviet Union. Famous is the collage programme of Reino Paasilinna, who later became President of the Soviet Union, which said how wonderful and happy it is to be there, and famous are programmes such as the Quarter of Neighborhood, and this is how people were able to ask questions about Soviet reality, questions to which Finnish journalists then lied in their answers. These answers were essentially based on the material of the Soviet news agency APN and, of course, did not say what really happened in the Soviet Union and in other so-called socialist countries. How was this possible in Finland, which adopted the doctrines of Western journalism? I believe that, when the Finnish Broadcasting Company was able to explain this and turn it into programmes or programmes, the whole of this matter would be exposed from one point of view. By way of perspective, I mean that it was not so much a question of direct pressure from the Soviets or the Soviet Union, but rather more of a question for the Finnish actors, whether they were politicians, academics or journalists in this case, about self-determination, which was already aimed at taking the Soviet perspective into account in advance, and the motives of these journalists were, of course, diverse. Some may have been communists who deliberately lied to the Finns so that the Soviet Union would appear in a more positive light and the Communist idea would gain support in Finland. Some may have been so-called useful idiots — this is Lenin’s definition — who read APN’s answers to questions from Finnish viewers and listeners and imagined that these answers were true. However, most of these journalists, in my interpretation, were opportunists who acted according to the atmosphere of the time, as they thought it was right to act, for example, in terms of the advancement of their own career. This YLE activity was really cruel to the Finnish viewer. For example, when a correspondent was sent to Moscow to report from one evening to another on the YLE news — which was thus viewed from both channels, and there were no other television news and radio news — there was always a clean - up Communist sent to Moscow in the 1970s, and at most there was sometimes a little controversy as to whether a majority communist or Stalinist, or so - called minority communist, would be sent there. I think the latter was sent out more. In other socialist countries, too, there were mainly persons who had adopted this Communist idea as correspondents. The most famous of these is Lieko Zachovalová, who was in Czechoslovakia and was subsequently made a great hero in Finland, because for a few seconds he argued with the Czech-Slovak telephone broker about the length of his report the morning he reported on the occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968. Instead of this argument, you could look at what he said. First of all, he said that: Czechoslovakia is a free country. Well, that really wasn't true. After that, he said that this occupation was a big misunderstanding. Well, that wasn't true either. The Soviet Union knew exactly that if it lets this camp of its own tear in the case of Czechoslovakia, there will be plenty of followers, as we saw twenty years later. All right, let's get back to it. So, in my opinion, the YLE should tell us about the mechanisms of filtration in its own place. Was there any politician who pressured this politician, Tehteankatu? If so, who and what? Then why were they lying? Why weren't they telling the truth? There was no need for vulgar propaganda against the Soviet Union, but it would have been enough to tell the truth, because, as we know afterwards, socialism, in this case communism as the dominant idea, was not as bad as we thought, but much worse. Why am I getting back to this? I come back to this because over the last few weeks, and also in one of the debates in which I myself participated, there has been a debate on what it was all about. In connection with a controversial report by UPI, allegations or accusations of indemnification have been raised. I noticed that the last time a new book was published, the President Ahtisaari has presented its own assessments of Finnish people and so on. In other words, I think it would be worth telling the Finns of the current generation what it was, what it was not. We can interview the people who have been involved, and I think that it will not be available for a very long time, for very many years, if we also want key actors to be interviewed and consulted. So, Mr President, in connection with this report, I shall now renew this view. We politicians should not interfere in programme policy, in individual programmes, but I would like to send this wish and greetings to the YLE from this valuable point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u98	Mr President! I consider Mr Zyskowicz's proposal to be justified. I also think that his tableau and criticism of the '70s are largely right. However, this section of history really needs to be expanded. This wasn't just about our Broadcasting. We might as well go through the writing of New Finland, which was told, which was not told. We can also go through the activities of the Youth Union of the Coalition Party, how Russia or then the Soviet Union played an important role in the decisions of the Youth Union of the Coalition Party. So there is a general need for history writing. But there is a need to talk about today too. How to secure free, independent journalism? And now, Mr Zyskowicz, I hope that you will not remain silent in both national languages but will tell us why the government has not implemented in its draft budget the proposal of a unanimous parliamentary group to take the money from the framework.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u99	Mr. Speaker! Thank you, Mr Heinäluoma, for your support for this idea. And of course I couldn't agree more. It was not a phenomenon that would have been confined to YLE, not even in the media, not to mention more widely, but it was a phenomenon that permeated the entire Finnish society. All the actors we were granted, practically everything, more or less. And this phenomenon, of course, has to go through history, and I support all this. As far as broadcasting is concerned, I think that when the Finnish Broadcasting Company was such a central factor and perhaps the most Finnish institution in journalism too, if we are talking about public access, then I think that the Finnish Broadcasting Company has obligations towards the Finnish people. As far as the youth of the Coalition Party are concerned, Professor Vesa Vares has made it a good book "Two Steps Ahead" and in it also the contribution of the Youth Union of the Coalition Party is excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u100	One more response, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u101	Since I believe in Mr Zyskowicz's sincerity, I would like to give him one more opportunity to answer this question, which I have asked twice. We need to talk about today, too. It is very important to us that we maintain independent and as objective information as possible, different perspectives. It is very important that YLE is not turned into a government radio and that its programme content is not tackled politically. And in order for this to happen, the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company must be arranged in such a way that the management or journalists of the Finnish Broadcasting Company do not have to think that if I now do this sort of thing and criticize the activities of this government party or make a revelation, then there will be a cut in the money. This is also important because of the fact that government parties, including the Finns of Finland, or they say exactly what the Finns of Finland are saying, said that this money weapon will be available when it is unhappy that, fortunately, these decisions will be taken to deal with the issue of Yle-Tax. There should now be moral courage to resist this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u104	Mr. Speaker! I cannot give an unconditional answer to this question because I have not really been involved in those discussions. But I know for sure that the emphasis on journalistic independence is also important for the government. And my impression is that the reasons why the money from YLE is within the framework and not outside the spending limits are more evident in budgetary technology and in the way in which the Ministry of Finance and the government want to include all expenditure in the budgetary framework and not exclude it from the budgetary framework. It is not a question of wanting to threaten or blackmail the public radio with the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u105	Well, one more response, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u106	Mr President! That is what we were told when this decision on the spending limits was taken a year ago that this has nothing to do with politics, that the policy is simply that all expenditure should be brought into the spending limits. Well, then we know that there are different funds outside the spending limits. Let me take the example of the Agricultural Development Fund, which is outside. Why is it outside, but Yle's inside? No one could explain it. But the question was: why has this been done in the past, but why has the unanimous proposal of the parliamentary working party not been implemented when it was completed with all the urgency before the summer holidays so that it could influence the budget for 2017 currently under discussion and the government could build its activities on it in the August budget debate? We have to talk about this because it seems to me that for some reason they want to keep this quiet. This has now been discussed, many questions have been asked. There won't be any answers. Ministers don't say anything. Representatives of the Government Party will try to talk about the history of the '70s rather than today. This remains completely open. This is today's swamping and silence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u107	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u108	Mr President! As has already been mentioned here in this debate, it is very important that the correct information is provided through the YLE. It is important for proper information, support for democracy and freedom of expression that the Finnish Broadcasting Company is, and will continue to be, a reliable and independent information intermediary under the authority of Parliament. This independence has already been expressed here, and according to the report of the YLE Board, the public continues to trust Yle and its public service software has a good reach. However, it must be said personally that when you go there with the citizens, there will also be criticism of this independence from the citizens — is this timely information available, and is it completely independent? I personally hope that this too will continue to be the subject of attention in the Finnish Broadcasting Company. That is a very important issue. Broadcasting also plays a very important role in the implementation of regional TV and radio activities. And that report from the Board of Directors does state that this regional activity is important now and will continue to be important in the future. It has also been outlined in the Finnish Broadcasting Strategy. I hope that attention will be paid to this. The fact that, of course, neither Parliament nor the Governing Board is interfering with the software that YLE provides is important, but yes, I personally want to say that I hope that it is also a Finnish programme, which comes from both television and radio. And what Finns want, so also Finnish sport from there, that national sport, the traditional Finnish sport. It is hoped that it will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u109	Mr President! This independence is a very important principle and that it can be secured. I have said thank you before, last Friday, to this working group, which has done a good job unanimously across party lines and has agreed to move this out of the framework, and it has therefore been very surprising that this move outside the framework has not taken place. This was the chairman of Arto Satonen, and very good work was done in support of the group by, among other things, Mr Salolainen and Eero Heinäluoma, who were part of the group, and in that way it was good for a short time, but now that confusion is great. If you do not know why the government has acted in this way, then you will soon be able to find out, because this is not the case, contrary to what the working party unanimously decides, that is not the case. Of course, it is serious, you can see signs of so-called neo-fiction in the air, and that is why I would like this to be rectified quickly. This is an opportunity for Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u110	Mr President! First of all, we must express our thanks to the management and employees of the Finnish Broadcasting Company over a longer period of time, for the development of the operations of the Finnish Broadcasting Company in recent years. A few years ago, when it was generally thought that time has passed by the YLE, we have come to the point where YLE has been the leading player in adapting to the digital age. Broadcasting has faced its challenges in an excellent way, so it is no wonder that the British BBC and Finnish Broadcasting Broadcasting have received the best grades in comparison with European Broadcasting Companies. The fact that YLE reaches nine out of ten Finns weekly on its various channels tells us that this facility and its quality operations are important for the whole nation and for all Finns. It is also important that the Finnish Broadcasting Company has courageously moved to a new era. The website of YLE is an important part of reliable communication, The arena is an excellent example of how the old existing YLE cultural treasure has been made available to all citizens. So there are many good examples. The reliability of the YLE news has also received exceptionally high ratings from citizens, even those that are already at the border, which can be reported when the percentages exceed those of President Niinistö’s popularity. In other words, when you are over 90 percent confidence, you can already ask if this is too far-reaching. This does not mean that there will be no mistakes for the YLE, that there will also be no mistakes in the news and that we may not be unhappy with the news and the journalistic solutions that have been made, and I am sure that some of this criticism will also be correct. That is different, but the basic question is that we are giving the opportunity for reliable journalism and building up a legislative framework and also funding for it. However, when this working group led by Satose took off from a very difficult situation and from a very large confrontation, it finally came to a common goal. At the Parliamentary sitting, I would like to pay tribute to the chairman of the working group, the chairman of the parliamentary group at the time, Mr Satonen, for his very fine, moderate, constructive and skilful progress in this work. The difficult, very different aspects and objectives, the very dramatic changes to the position of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, the proposals which contained very large cuts, led to a reasonable compromise. Therefore, a compromise was reached, which means that no changes will be made to the financing of YLE for next year and for 18 years, and 2019 will be assessed separately in 2018, but then part of this compromise was that, in any event, from 2019 onwards, the use of index adjustments in accordance with existing legislation will be made. This was done, and it has now been seen that this too has its own consequences for the operations of the Finnish Broadcasting Company: a Yt-proceeding has been launched, which will mean a reduction in staff, and unfortunately it also means clear qualifiers in the software – the first signs of which are visible when the decision has been made to combine two channels, the Swedish-speaking FST channel and then the Finnish-language Teema channel. In other words, these, even if only by freezing the indexes, have a real bearing on how the public can enjoy the YLE in the future. It remains to be seen whether this solution, too, is of the kind that it causes greater damage to YLE's programme production. I look forward to the relevant solutions of the General Radio Management, the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors. However, this work is particularly important in the sense that, under all circumstances, we will secure this independent communication. It is important that there is a strong commitment in this Parliament that the activities of the Finnish Broadcasting Company are carried out under the authority and control of the Parliament, not under the control of the Government. It is important that the Government negotiations do not take unilateral action on the YLE guidelines, and it is important not to create the kind of financial screws that would journalistically influence YLE news and current activities. And from this point of view, this one point of view is now unfortunately not being implemented on the proposal of this working group, and one of the points is the transfer of the funding of YLE outside the spending limits. I find this amazing. When we have a parliamentary working party whose proposal was unanimous, that is to say, to move outside the framework in order to safeguard this very journalistic independence, there is not a single word in the budget that this has been carried out. No, no, no. It appears that the public radio will be kept in the framework next year, contrary to what the working group put forward. Well, it's a little more common here, isn't it? It is clear that this is not in line with the solution taken by the working group, which was part of the compromise, this framework solution, when it was ready to move outside the framework, and in the working group those who would have been in favour of the current legislation, i.e. those who would have been prepared for inflation adjustments in the financing of the YLE, felt that as part of the compromise, when this framework issue was resolved in a positive way, in order to emphasise the independence of YLE, this other funding could be accepted in a way that did not respond to the views of all the members of the working group. Well, now this spending limits solution has not come true. That also leaves us with the question of how much we can trust each other’s word. Here in the previous debate during the day it was said that words are deeds, as they are, especially in politics. The question remains, then, to what extent we can rely on the word of the representatives of the government parties. If, after very difficult stages, something is agreed in parliamentary terms, is this agreement not automatic? What makes this particularly strange is the fact that no representative of the government party agrees to say: what has happened here, why has this unanimous proposal not been implemented in next year's budget? Mr Zyskowicz, after three questions, agrees to deal with the subject, but he will also give an old answer from a year ago and will not answer the question as to why the unanimous proposal of the parliamentary working party in June has not been implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not something we can do, because we must have the ability to debate, and there must be some explanation as to why this proposal from the working party has not been implemented. There has to be some explanation for that now, it cannot be thought that this is being silenced and that it is hoped that no one will write about it. Well, no one can be trusted to write because the newspapers do not write about the affairs of the Finnish Broadcasting Company in such a basic way. It's not their first interest...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u115	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma, in his speech, asked why the unanimous proposal of the parliamentary working party has not been taken forward. But I'll start a little further. That criticism of why this sort of analysis was usually made is explained purely by the fact that we today have to all organizations to tackle in such a way that we look at their cost development. Yle is under the authority of Parliament and it was therefore natural for these measures to be prepared in parliamentary terms. Personally, I think it is valuable that we have arrived, just as Mr Heinäluoma said, after difficult negotiations, at a unanimous solution which is a good basis for taking things forward. I am not going to dramatise this situation like Mr Heinäluoma is doing here. Let's just take our time and see what's been the case. We will certainly find that out at the latest in committee when the budget is being discussed. And the Committee on Transport and Communications will also give its opinion on the budget. So the situation is not so dramatic at all. The important thing is that we have a unanimous proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u116	Mr President! I appreciate Mrs Anttila's speech and her response, and I would like to say that, when Mrs Anttila was involved in this working group, her contribution to the fact that that proposal could be created and unanimous at all was very great. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where it is October and we still do not know what this is about. It would, of course, be desirable for this committee to be able to be understood, but at the very least I would regard it as a mental obligation on the part of the representatives of the government parties to explain this outside the committee work and to tell this Chamber, because this is of interest to people other than those in the committee, which is why this has not happened. And I hope that it will be appreciated too, that at least in my thinking there is a strong commitment that if there is a parliamentary work and there comes a unanimous proposal, then it will be taken forward, and that is also such a matter of trust, especially when needed
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u117	Mr President! I would also like to thank Sirkka-Liisa Anttila for being a member of the working group and, as I said, I appreciate the work you have done, but unfortunately the situation is that, at the moment, it does not seem sufficient for everyone to agree unanimously, but then the government will act in such a way that, in its own motion, it does not implement this parliamentary agreement and will. That is why, like Mr Heinäluoma, I would also underscore the word 'trust', and this is, of course, a big issue. I would also like to point out that Parliament must be informed about a matter of this size. It has been confusing that the government parties have not spoken about this. The second, of course, is that one might also ask the Minister why this could have happened in the first place. But, President-in-Office, with the same spirit I am getting closer to the point that there is reason to be tenacity here. Here the Social Democrats have made a clear compromise and have reached a solution which, in itself, safeguards the position of Yle and looks to the future, but has also had painful points, and that is why it is very important that this word be kept, and that is why I, as a Member of Parliament, also require clarity on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u118	Mr President! Let's not provoke or provoke too much. We'll be able to sort this out in the course of the day. Let's just wait in peace. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u119	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma gave a valuable and good speech on Yle's mission and its role, and let's think about the work of our working group that was done. It is a very good piece of work, programme work, and its independence is very important to us in the Left Alliance. In this context, funding is the part of what needs to be thought of as how to maintain its independence. That is why it is important that it should be imported and that funding should always be decided in parliamentary terms and not kept within the framework. We also need to take into account the results of the work of the Satos team. It was a very good and appropriate task force. There were a lot of compromises there, and perhaps the most important compromise in terms of funding was that it was decided that in 2018 the funding for 2019 would be considered sufficient for Yle,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-05-ps-95.u120	Mr President! Thank you also, as a member of the working group, to Mrs Sem. As has been said, although there were many difficult solutions — for example, we had to accept the fact that the government had decided a little unparliamentaryly at the beginning of the reign without any index cuts asked by the opposition, and its consequences have been described here, and they have not been positive — in the name of the fact that there was still a common vision which, in a very uncertain situation, established Yle's position in the future — it was terrible to see the year in which Yle certainly had to think a great deal — I would now like to thank quite sincerely all the parliamentary parties here for making such a decision in the working group, because I am a friend of Yle, as I am sure many of us, and we see that the important part of pluralist information is that we have a public service company that provides high-quality services for us all, and it was therefore important that this working group achieved a unanimous work and established status. And I have said before, President-in-Office, that I would believe that, in retrospect, when the Yle-history is written, this working party will probably be there.
