ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u2	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on publicly supported export credits and underwriting loans and interest compensation, the law on state special financing companies and the law on state export guarantees. The Government's proposal proposes to increase the maximum amount of export and underwriting credits granted by Finnish Export Credit Ltd and the maximum amount of export guarantees granted by Finnvera Plc. At the same time, the Board proposes to increase the maximum amount of guarantees granted by the Government to Finnvera Plc. The aim is to promote the competitiveness of the financing of exports of Finnish capital goods exports and thus improve their access to export projects. The Government proposes to increase the maximum amount of export and credit credits granted to Finnish Export Credit Ltd from the current EUR 7 billion to EUR 13 billion. In addition, the government proposes to increase the interest-rate compensation facility from EUR 7 billion to EUR 13 billion and to amend the law on state-owned special financing companies to allow the company to have the capital of state-guaranteed loans repayable and loan programmes up to EUR 15 billion in equivalent value in euro. The Government also proposes to amend the Act on Government Export Guarantees to increase the combined liability of Finnvera Corporation's export guarantees and hedging arrangements from EUR 17 billion to EUR 19 billion. It is also proposed to increase the specific risk-taking guarantee facility from EUR 3 billion to EUR 3.5 billion. On the basis of the information received, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is of the opinion that there is still insufficient funding available on the competitive financial markets for export financing, in particular for export projects requiring long-term financing. Similarly, it can be seen that export projects will not be carried out if the seller is unable to organise the financing of the export project on competitive terms. Even internationally, there is a clear market failure on the market that is needed to address the need for additional State funding. The proposal responds to increased international competition by seeking to maintain the Finnish export financing system at least at the same level as the main competitors. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the government's proposal to be justified and necessary, but at the same time draws attention to the fact that, as the State's responsibilities continue to grow, the risks of possible losses will also increase. The TEM estimates that by 2030 responsibilities will increase from the current EUR 7 billion to more than EUR 30 billion if the current credit granting rate continues. The committee has also drawn attention to the fact that the bulk of export funding is concentrated in a relatively limited part of the export industries. The diversification of the export structure should also be promoted through export financing. This requires that small and medium-sized growth companies can also make better use of government-supported export financing. The committee therefore welcomes the report that has been received, which is currently completing the new instruments in this regard. The committee will speed up the report on the functioning, effectiveness and risks of the system during 2016, and will require attention to be paid, among other things, to the issues raised in the report of the National Audit Office. In the current situation, attention must be paid to the fact that the increased role of the State does not become a barrier to market normalisation. The Committee considers it important that Finland continues to play an active role in developing and clarifying the OECD's export credit regulation so that its different interpretation does not contribute to distorting the competitive situation in the market. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously supports the adoption of legislative proposals contained in the government proposal as unchanged.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u3	Mr President! I believe that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done a good job on this issue, and for that I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee. However, our great concern relates to this limited base of exports. We still only have between 2 and 3 key industries, unlike Sweden, where the basis for exports is much more diverse. Similarly, in risk management, we can look at our Nordic colleagues: in Denmark, for example, pension companies take responsibility for export risks. Could this be possible for us as well? The role of commercial banks is also a concern. Why is the system going in the direction of the government taking responsibility here too? In its own alternative budget, the SDP called for rapid action from the government to finance SMEs. I'm asking you now, because Finnvera brings out this so-called junior loan, which would also strengthen the position of SMEs? The problem now is that all these large amounts of exports we are talking about are directed at our big companies, and our export problems, as we all know, are in the SME sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u4	Mr President! The government proposal now before us and the unanimous report by the committee are to be welcomed. The SDP supports all the efforts we can make to improve the situation of export companies. Finland lives from exports. Finland needs exports. Ultimately, this depends on our well-being. Mr President! In the context of the alternative budget last autumn, the SDP presented an export and entrepreneurship package, and Mr Skinner raised a very important issue here. In other words, we have a very low share of small and medium-sized enterprises in exports at international and Nordic level. It is now important that the financial situation of small and medium-sized enterprises should be facilitated in this bank-led funding, and it would be good if the representatives of the government parties present here would tell us whether the government intends to intervene and when the government intends to bring to Parliament a proposal to set up Finnvera's new junior loan programme. This is what we've been waiting for. We need action now. We do not only have time to wait for a labour market solution or any mandatory laws that would enter into force only 2017. We could use a little action here and now. In addition to these, Mr President, Finland should now introduce employment pension contributions and EMU buffers to ease the cost burden for export companies here and now without shooting the domestic market into its own feet. Would this, for example, be good for the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u5	Mr President! I am not so sure whether pension companies should take the risk of exporting companies trading abroad, whether it is the right way and solution. However, we must keep our pension funds in safe investments, and in the sense that they are being traded, that road can be endless. But for this export promotion itself: This is a very important issue raised by Mr Skinner. It is true that the smaller the companies are in the SME sector, so when you go to micro-enterprises, companies with fewer than 10 employees, for example in Sweden three to four times more exports are made abroad than in Finnish companies, and in Europe all companies have the same trend. In Finland, it has not been possible to seize the idea of promoting the export of Finnish companies. I have suggested this earlier, and I am now suggesting that why not all of us in this House, during each parliamentary term, could make a 1 to 2 export promotion trip, with which we are exporting these small businesses to the world. In Asia, for example, it is easy for a congressman to open doors to companies and really take forward that trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u6	Mr President! This is Mr Skinner and Mr Skinner. Mr Lindtman raised a point which the committee also raised, specifically regarding the financing of exports to SMEs. The fact that these financial instruments are currently being finalised in order to finance the export of SMEs was very clear in the committee's consultations. In other words, these financial instruments are in the final stage, which specifically supports the export of SMEs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u7	And one last response, Mr Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u8	Mr President! Representative Niikko needs various export promotion trips, but even the Finns of Peru would now have control over the government in their ministry. Although this proposal itself is very good, especially in the shipbuilding industry, Finnish companies are facing competitive shortcomings, which the government now needs to pay close attention to and negotiate on a continuous basis within the EU on equal competition factors. In Poland, for example, various projects are under way to support state-owned shipyards. It is done well, for example through other state-owned companies, by offering discounts on steel and electricity. We must not be naive. If we are to pursue fair competition within the EU, then we must be careful how the prices of offers are actually made up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u9	And to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u10	Mr President! Support for employment and exports is extremely important, and the SDP has put forward in its own alternative budget a series of concrete measures to support exports in particular. We have proposals on energy tax relief, fairway charges, including proposals on, for example, the export locomotive network and all this. But what we have had to worry about, Mr Government, is that all employment measures in this and now the size of the government are missing and everything is missing. That is a major economic policy problem that we are facing through this. It's a good thing these little shows are coming. But, President-in-Office, there is one thing I have been very concerned about, and I would like to receive an answer in this Chamber. Last season, the President of the Centre, the current Prime Minister, Mr Sipilä, said on several occasions that a billion-dollar growth fund should be created to solve all employment problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u14	And here is the response to Mrs Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u15	Mr President! Mrs Viitanen has now raised a very important issue, which is indeed related to this proposal at hand. Now we have heard a clarification — thanks to the chairman of the committee — because this so-called junior loan programme is coming. Of course, we did not receive an exact answer, but I hope that the government parties will be able to clarify this, namely that this is a matter of urgency. But indeed, this billion-dollar growth fund: At least now, according to current data, it seems to be just an increase in concessions, whether it was 300 million, Finnvera. That is something else than what the current Prime Minister, then the President-in-Office of the Centre, Mr Sipilä, spoke about, and there is no sign of it. I believe that Juha Sipilä, President of the previous opposition, would now be the biggest critic of this current government's growth funding. For example, can Hokkonen say when this multi-billion-dollar growth fund is coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u16	Reply to Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u17	Mr President! I have understood that in this House the President will give the floor, and I am grateful for this speech — and Mr Lindtman, of course, for his encouragement. Thank you all for that. But as far as this competitiveness is concerned or what funds have been agreed or tried to do in the last period, I do not know anything about it when I was not in this house at the time. But as far as this period is concerned, I dare say that of course there will not be such a fund to shovel money for companies. Moreover, if we are going to shovel money for businesses, I think that our dear EU will immediately bring an action against us for illegal aid to companies, as you know. It does not require the assistance of the President; I can tell you directly that this is the case, of course, that direct aid to companies cannot be given. But, of course, our intention is first to have a social pact, which will enable us to move forward with a long, exciting, wise wage policy and labour market policy, to improve competitiveness by removing red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u18	I would like to respond to Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u19	Mr President! This seems to me that Mr Hoskonen then apparently put a stop to this growth fund, which Mr Sipilä called very strongly for last season. That is, of course, very interesting. There was a bit of a second sound in the bell.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, many Members have asked for the floor as a matter of fact, looking forward to using it within this time limit. I won't give you any more answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u24	Thank you, Mr President, for this line. — Mr President! This government proposal must be supported. It is an important part of exports and employment efforts, although it does not solve our problems alone, as has been rightly pointed out here. But that's one important part. Since the financial crisis and due to changes in banking regulations, the responsibilities of all major export guarantors in the world have increased, as has Finnvera. In addition, Finland's figures have been increased by orders received by shipyards and their financing, and this is of course extremely positive. So it is important to remember what is behind these increased numbers and to see that it is also a positive thing. Finland's export financing must be sufficient in such a way that Finnish companies do not disappear to other countries because of the financial organisation. That is why this amendment of the law is also necessary. Unfortunately, there is too much competition between these various export guarantee companies, perhaps in developing new financial instruments and thus competing with others. Export guarantee operations in Finland have been cumulatively profitable, but of course there is a risk of losses, and it must be accepted and remembered. However, we must bear in mind the positive employment and economic impact this export financing activity will have on Finland, which is something that is worth doing. However, it is important to be careful not to overstep the path of market financing and, on the other hand, it is important to establish universal rules on the financing of exports that will not result in this negative competition. This bill is important, but it must also be remembered that string cannot be pushed indefinitely. We also need demand for Finnish products in the market, and products in Finland that are made in the world
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u25	Mr President! I would just like to add a few points to the speeches that have been made here: This increase in the financing and powers of exports speaks of two things. On the other hand, it is such a positive idea because it could improve export opportunities. But it also tells us that such a market-based banking system may not work as is hoped here, and it also tells us that if products are exported to the world, they must also be accompanied by a financial package — products and a financial package to promote its exports. That is why it is extremely important that we have such an instrument. The point that has been addressed here in committee is that this is a very narrow base for our exports: 50 companies take more than half of the exports. They're great companies, but it's so vulnerable. Everything must therefore be done to give new exports to new sectors and, above all, to these medium-sized, small businesses the opportunity to cross that intellectual threshold and to enter the international market. That is why we need these junior loans, which is why we need new concepts so that we can get this exports on a better footing. There is a great deal of effort to be made here, and the SDP has taken very constructive initiatives in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u26	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on publicly supported export credits and underwriting loans and interest compensation, the law on state special financing companies and the law on state guarantees. I think it's a good show. The aim of the proposal is to respond to increased demand for State-subsidised export financing. As regards the financing of exports, there is still insufficient funding available on the competitive financial markets, in particular for export projects requiring long-term financing. Similarly, it can be seen that export projects will not be carried out if the seller is unable to organise the financing of the export project on competitive terms. There is also a clear market failure in the international assessment. In order to make up for this, it is necessary to provide additional funding for the State. This proposal responds to increased international competition by trying to keep the Finnish export financing system at least at the same level as the main competitors. This is a very important point because competition between the Nordic countries, for example, is very tight and we have already given competitive countries an advantage in many sectors. The proposal provides an excellent overview of the export financing system of key countries for Finland. The conclusion of this review is that the maximum export guarantee mandate in Finland is currently comparable to that in many other countries, both in relation to GDP and export volumes. This is a good place to go. As central government liabilities continue to grow, risks of potential losses will also increase. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy estimates that by 2030 the total credit stock could rise from the current EUR 7 billion to up to EUR 30 billion if the current credit granting rate continues. A particular risk is the rise in interest rates, as an analysis of the risk associated with interest rate adjustment under OECD export credit conditions shows that it is difficult to effectively hedge in advance. On the other hand, it should also be noted that up to now the risk has been managed quite well and the State has prepared itself for possible losses with various buffers. However, when assessing the risk of the State, it should be borne in mind that even projects where the risk of financing exports may be partially realised have, as a general rule, also generated income for society in some other form. Most of the financing of exports is concentrated in a relatively limited number of industries. For example, there have been very few projects targeting the cleantech sector. The diversification of the export structure should also be promoted through export financing. This requires that small and medium-sized growth companies can also make better use of government-supported export financing. I believe that the central idea is that we should secure the Finnish export financing system. It must follow international practices and we must be able to provide funding at the same level as our competitor. Otherwise, we're off the train. Our decision on the number of powers and their terms of reference directly affects whether the Finnish export financing system is at the level of key competitors. I believe this is the will of the present government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u27	Mr President! The legislation of employment pension companies prevents risk financing, which means that there should in practice be a counter-guarantee in these loans. Consequently, employment pension companies cannot resolve this issue. On the other hand, from the State’s point of view, taxes and similar taxes levied on the wages and salaries sum at the time of the construction of the ship reduce the State’s risk. In that sense, in the context of international global competition, which the shipbuilding industry has in the true sense of the word, state export credits are essential. Why, then, is there no such growth funding and funds? The question is probably that there are no ideas and investment targets at the cost level that currently prevails in Finland. It is also reflected in the fact that depreciation has long been higher than investment and dividends very high, when owners transfer money to other, more productive countries and destinations than Finland currently has. An obvious mistake was made when the progressive taxation of non-listed companies was introduced, when the self-financing of companies developed very poorly in Finland. As a result, access to external funding is also rather weak. Competitiveness in order, and it would be worth removing the progressive share of taxation on non-listed companies, so that capital would come back from real estate and abroad to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-19-ps-11.u28	Mr President! In this regard, a few representatives raised the issue of this situation in Poland and a little unfair competition on this international market and the means to address it. Clearly, Poland has such elements, one might say, at least questionable, prohibited elements of state aid in this trade. How can this be addressed? It is precisely the case that the interpretation of the OECD's export credit regulation should be made more coherent, and that is why Finland should make an effort to ensure that this level playing field becomes more of a reality here. Then these risks. This was an estimate that by 2030 the government's responsibilities would rise to 30 billion, but it will, in a sense, stop there, because then capital will start to come back from the other end. The interest rate itself is not so much on this capital, since this financing of exports is, however, considered to be so tight that the risk of capital is very low here. But where that risk is then exposed is the interest rate when this export financing takes place so that here is offered the product and funding in the same package and this rate is the fixed rate. If, in any case, interest rates vary in the long term, however, it is to be expected and quite frankly I say that there may be some losses, but they come from that part of the interest rate.
