ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u2	First question, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u3	Mr President! A few weeks ago, a friend from Tampere told me about her pharmacy visit. Had to wait in line. In front of him, an older woman had dropped her money on the counter when she was buying drugs. Mr Stubb, did you know that this year there was no increase in earnings-related pensions and, in fact, a slight drop in national pensions? Many pensioners are concerned and alarmed. You, Minister Stubb, contrary to your election vows, betrayed the pensioners and made them pay higher taxes than employees. Yeah, what's it gonna be now? In this situation, would pensioners not have earned the same tax reductions as employees?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u4	Madam President! The example you set is, of course, unfortunate, and it would seem that the economic and otherwise situation in our country would be better than what it is at the moment. We have assumed that this government will not increase the taxation of labour and that this government will not increase the taxation of pensions either. When we look forward to our career from this point of view — the 4 billion adjustment, the 72% employment target — we hope that in three years' time we will have brought the country back on track, and we hope that next year the social partners will have reached agreement on both the social pact, wages and many other issues, at which point we will be able to meet the tax reductions of EUR 1 billion, which would also affect pensioners in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u6	Mr President! Unfortunately, this government line now simply means that this year the taxation of a middle-income pensioner in relation to an employee will increase by EUR 250 per year. If you're a couple, it's already 500 euros a year. We demars proposed in our own alternative budget that this injustice should be rectified. Mr Stubb, are you now making a permanent distinction between this tax differential and eternity? You would now have the opportunity to correct this glaring flaw in the spending limits debate that will begin in a moment. Are you going to do that this tax differential you have caused will not be permanent for pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u7	Madam President! Of course, when we look at tax-policy entities, the aim is to ensure that they are consistent and not obstinate. This problem, which you yourself mentioned, is dealt with in particular by creating more jobs and jobs in Finland. We have two major challenges at the moment. One is the global economy and the other is the demographic structure. We are in a situation — every Finn who follows this Question Time understands it — where we have fewer and fewer hand pairs at work, more and more hand pairs to support at the moment. Now, in this government, we are trying to make decisions that will increase both the supply of work and the demand for it. That is why we have also invested in reducing the tax burden on labour and thereby creating more jobs. This problem will not be solved with a little trick or in this spending limits debate either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u8	Mr President! After all, this is not a little trick, it is a question of whether people working and retired are taxed according to the same principles. That's what this is all about. For some strange reason, Mr Stubb, you do not seem to understand this at all today. But before the election, you understood this. At the time, you yourself said that you found it quite intolerable that the centre has suggested that tax reductions should not apply to pensioners. Now you are going around this day and you refuse to say why you do this kind of tax legislation yourself, that retired persons are taxed more tightly than those working. That's not right, and worry is growing among pensioners. At the same time, you are in the process of preparing — I noticed that the Coalition Party is now demanding a reduction in the tax on alcohol tax, that the alcohol tax on restaurants should be reduced. That is where you will have money, on the side of increasing alcohol consumption, but not on the basis of equal treatment for all pensioners. Why must alcohol tax be reduced, but the taxation of pensioners is kept higher than that of workers, Mr Stubb?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u9	Madam President! I understand that this is a government Question Time and the first question was about pensions. This government is not at this stage in the process of calculating the taxation of alcohol. But perhaps two points relating to pensioners: the first is the increase in the guarantee pension that we made, and the second was the cancellation of the cut in the housing allowance for pensioners. Now, Mr Heinäluoma, in order not to create any misunderstandings, I would like to say this once again: the taxation of pensioners will not increase during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u10	Mr President! From the beginning of the year, you were blackmailing the taxation of pensioners in relation to wage earners. You made a reduction in earnings reduction for wage and salary earners but did not make a reduction in pension income which would have given pensioners the same tax advantage as those employed. The fact is that, as Mr Gustafsson said here, pensions did not rise by one cent at the beginning of the year — a zero increase. Fortunately, there will be small increases for those working this year. There will be an imbalance here, and it is strange that you do not recognise this. Now, if tax cuts are made in the future, as you say, put in the tables, this difference will remain permanent. Every single year, pensioners pay more tax than employees pay the same income. I think this is unfair. This should be corrected, and that is why I hope, as Mr Gustafsson did, that this will be done in the next round of spending limits when you meet to discuss taxation. Wouldn't this make sense if there's a mismatch, like this one?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u11	Madam President! Perhaps I did not quite understand Mr Heinäluoma's conclusion. Were you therefore of the opinion that the taxation of labour should not have been reduced and that the reduction in labour income should not have been changed,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u12	Congressman Heinäluoma has a question, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u13	Mr President! Yes, indeed, the income reduction was justified. I am not against it, but I am in favour, as you well know, because in December we adopted it unanimously. The difference is whether pensioners should not be treated in the same way as workers, the same tax reduction will. When you say the difference is small, Mr Gustafsson told me the difference. It is well over 200 euros per pensioner, the couple 500 euros. It may be small for you, but for pensioners, it's starting to be quite a lot of money when you look at it every year. And now you're threatening to make this permanent if you don't fix this in the spending limits. Let me ask you again: what prevents you from submitting a proposal for a correction in the next spending limits debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u14	Madam President! Our economic situation is blocking that at the moment. We are currently in a society with three rigidities. The first rigidity is political decision-making, the second rigidity is the labour market, and the third rigidity is our currency. There is only one thing and only one that is currently being flexible in this society and in this country, and that is unemployment. We in this government are trying to correct that situation. We strive to build a society in which both working and doing work are profitable. It also means, in the long run, that we will receive more tax revenue, and that means that we will also be able to check, among other things, the taxation of pensioners, which will not increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u15	Mr President! It is true, Mr Stubb, that in difficult times we must hold on to those who are just weaker and invest in the things we will be able to do in the future. In the field of education, too, cuts are currently imprudent. And in addition to this taxation for pensioners, pensioners find that many of their contributions are increasing and thus the cost burden is increasing. So the question is that for many pensioners who need, for example, medical benefits and long journeys to health care, the overall impact may be completely unreasonable for certain people. Therefore, the government should take responsibility for the impact on the weaker groups of their policies as a whole. If, Mr Stubb, you are not prepared to facilitate taxation for pensioners, then I would ask Minister Rehula and Minister Mäntylä whether it would be possible, however, to introduce a common ceiling for these social and health care payments so that the same burden is not limited to certain people — those who are pensioners and those who need the most support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u17	Mr President! In this connection, close cooperation with Kela has now been carried out precisely in connection with the issue of the ownership of the reimbursement of medicines, and there is now a very active debate, and with the Federation of Pharmacies, among other things, there is also a very active follow-up on the impact of this responsibility, for example, now on these purchases of medicines. The second thing that has been given particular attention now is the real-time monitoring of these travel expenses, because there has indeed been a lot of message that when these responsibilities are not registered in real time people will then have to wait for them for a considerable period of time so that they can actually get them back. It is now being asked for a simple technical amendment, which would then make the situation easier in that respect. In fact, one more thing, of course, is that I have also had a great deal of discussion with the Kela operators about this transfer of basic income support to Kela, and they now have the objective that it is now going to take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u18	Madam President! The poverty of pensioners has deepened and is compounded by high housing costs, broken working careers and long periods of unemployment, early retirement from disability and also low wages from which the pension is calculated. These are the factors that we must be able to influence. In addition to revenue, attention must also be paid to expenditure, such as very high housing costs and service charges and too low medical fees. Mr President! However, you in the government are now increasing customer fees, cutting pharmaceutical fees, wanting to cut wages. Do you, the government, have some examples of concrete measures to reduce pensioner poverty quickly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u19	Mr President! Indeed, I am referring here to this previous response to the fact that there have now been very active discussions with the Social Insurance Institution, among others, on how, among other things, the under-use of income support can now be taken into account, because we have a lot of pensioners who would be entitled to it, but when our system does not work and that is why we want this one-stop shop principle to work, that people will then possibly receive all the social security that they share. As far as these reimbursements are concerned — and I will come back to that extent — we have in the government, among other things, a rational drug treatment development programme, which we are now working very hard to use so that they do not target customers, but that by intensifying the treatment and dismantling the unnecessary medication we would be able to apply for those savings by means of such measures rather than directing them to the users of medicines.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u20	Three ministers have asked for a reply. Short answers, ministers Soini, Lindström and Ruhula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u21	Madam President! These difficulties raised by Mr Pekonen are real and cause for concern. That is clear and I believe that we all share that concern. What the government has been able to do is to increase the guarantee pension, increase the allowance for informal care, abolish the Yle-tax on 300,000 low-income earners — there are many pensioners involved — and cancel the housing allowance for pensioners. Here are four concrete measures that will help in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u22	Madam President! Of course, overall it is a matter of buying bread with euros. On the other hand, it is also important that access to a doctor is possible, that the queue is as short as possible if anything happens, that rehabilitation works and that the services of the ageing population as a whole are such that the sense of security that is needed for living and living is there. Yes, this government strives and strives for a situation where, for example, living at home is safer and safer than it is at present, not to mention getting to a doctor more quickly. That is why we also have social reform on the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u23	Madam President! In his question, Mr Pekonen mentioned the elderly unemployed, and I could reply in this way that we are looking for new ways, one of which is quite practical: together with Minister Vehviläinen, we have started a study on how we can get these hardest-working people back to work, and these older unemployed people are also part of this group. In other words, we are asking organisations, industries, municipalities, communities and ordinary citizens new ideas so that we can get this threshold of employment down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u24	Mr President! That is what I was asking here: yes, this livelihood of pensioners is a serious matter and, as a result of all the cuts that the government is making now, for a very many pensioners, the net in hand will fall. This is a serious question, President, and the pensioners are now looking at you, Mr Stubb. Before the elections, you promised fair tax treatment, and now that promise has been betrayed. You say there's no money. Yet you have enough money to reduce car tax, reduce taxes on millions of dollars, you have enough money to reduce alcohol tax. Why does the money, Mr Stubb, always run out when it comes to pensioners? This is unfair. We have to fix this. Why does money run out when it comes to pensioners and their fair treatment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u25	Madam President! Referring to Mr Viitanen's question: Yes, I believe that the majority of pensioners understand and know where Finland is at the moment. We have about 400,000 unemployed job seekers. We have a very rigid labour market system. We have a system that does not create more work, and the fact is that without work we have neither prosperity nor pensions. In other words, we are constantly looking for solutions to improve the employment situation in this country, because, if we are to be honest, we are in a situation where we also have a favourable economic policy: the ECB's loose interest rate policy, but also the low oil price and the low euro. And yet we will not achieve economic growth until we get the situation right. Then we cannot go down the road to lower the taxation of pensioners either. That's why
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u26	Madam President! As the former President and statesman Paavo Lipponen said: 'Oh, this hypocrisy, this washing of hands.' This occurred to me when I listened to the issue of the taxation of pensioners in the SDP. In particular, pensioners are most enraged in taxation by this so-called ‘drain tax’, and its mother is the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u27	Madam President! It should be noted that, contrary to what the SDP claims to do, these solutions do not lead to increased taxation on pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u28	Mr President! Since the Minister of Finance has considered these increases in electricity transmission in Caruna to be unreasonable and now Caruna has decided today to reduce these basic charges, would it be reasonable here to take a new step in the government's direction and end up with this taxation of pensions according to your election promise, Minister Stubb? And then the answer to you, Mr Zyskowicz: at the moment pensioners are not paying the same taxes as my draft budget last year because the pension deduction has been removed from it, the increase I made there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u32	Does Congressman Rinne want to talk to you? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u33	I would like to repeat this question, Mr President. You have criticised the increase in electricity transmission charges in Caruna, by 30%, and it has just come to light that Caruna has been prepared to reduce the basic charge for electricity transmission.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u38	And Congressman Rinne will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u39	Mr President! As has been said several times here, you have been able to afford farm development money, car tax rebates, tax reductions on millions of inheritances. I ask you, Minister of Finance: is this a question of value choice, when you betray your election vows to pensioners, without reducing the tax burden on pensioners in the same proportion as employees?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u40	Madam President! As former Minister of Finance, Mr Rinne, you will be well aware that when the budget is being drawn up there is a certain framework within which action is being taken. We're leaving the government program's agenda. Then we will see to it that the objectives it has set are adhered to. If there is a need to repair along the way, then repairs will be made. Let me be quite frank, Mr Rinne: I also think it is worth avoiding social confrontation in budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u41	Let me give you three more answers to this: Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and then Mr Gustafsson, the author of the original question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u42	Madam President! It was a good thing that Minister Stubb mentioned that government programme. As President Rinne and former President Heinäluoma well know, the various parties set targets when entering the elections, the government programme is agreed among the parties entering the government, and then the common line that will be implemented will emerge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u47	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz is, of course, absolutely right that there are two different issues to be discussed here. In other words, the issue previously related to public finances, and these issues relating to price increases in Caruna are issues related to the regulation of a natural monopoly, very different issues. We have actively sought a solution on the part of the government through negotiation on this issue of Caruna. A negotiated solution has now been reached whereby Caruna will reduce fixed basic charges and undertake to avoid price increases in 2017. This means that instead of almost 30%, the increase in costs for consumers will be less than 15%. This is excellent news for Caruna's customers, especially for those on low and middle incomes and pensioners for whom these disproportionate increases are being made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u48	Madam President! The view of the Group of the Greens is that, even in difficult economic times, it is possible to adopt a tax policy that improves the position of the low-income and low-income groups. That is why we made a tax solution, which we have also presented here in the Chamber, where the basic deduction of municipal tax would have been greatly increased and financed by tightening dividends, which is a legitimate measure, because the light taxation of dividends is currently increasing the income gap. The Economic Assessment Council, which has been quoted here many times by the government, criticises the government for failing to take into account in your decisions how different decisions affect the same groups of people, nor does it make sufficient use of taxation as an element that could increase justice and avoid the most painful cuts. How do you respond to this criticism from the Economic Assessment Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u50	Madam President! We thoroughly reviewed the report of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, and there the basic message was quite clear, which means that the government's fiscal stance is more or less correct. It was also agreed that more could no longer be owed. There was also agreement on the size and pace of adjustment. Where we had a little disagreement, it was in our tax policy line, let us admit it. So we assume that Finland's overall tax rate can no longer be tightened because it is one of the highest in the world, roughly between 44 and 45 per cent of the total tax rate, relative to the OECD, for example: 34 per cent. We are constantly looking at the report of the Economic Policy Review Council, but we will keep the tax line we currently have and have two objectives: to create more jobs and growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u51	And the author of the original question, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u52	Mr President! I am disappointed with the answers of the ministers. It seems that sometimes the spring sun has not at least melted the hearts of the ministers. I don't know if that's what's gonna happen by the time we get to the spending limits. I would now particularly like to emphasise and emphasise that we have a lot of unemployment, we have a lot of insecurity among people. This would now require the government to have an extremely careful, careful understanding of the sense of justice. In my opinion, this debate, in which pensioners are now undoubtedly treated differently from employees, is a legitimate violation of their sense of justice. Finally, when Mr Stubb is also President of the Coalition Party, I would like to ask: why is the Coalition Party now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u54	Madam President! Perhaps I do not quite agree with Mr Gustafsson's overall assessment and with what is the income angle of the government. The income angle of the government is unambiguously clear, and that is that we are trying to create more jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u58	The following question is asked by Mr Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u59	Mr President! The Government published a list of savings made by reducing municipal tasks. Some are quite reasonable, such as the transfer of rescue missions to the provinces, and the examination of eligibility criteria will contribute to employment. But it is unacceptable for you to cut EUR 60 million from services for people with disabilities. Disabled people over 75 years of age are excluded from disability services. They run out of personal assistance and transport services, among other things. They're losing the chance of an independent life. Children with disabilities are also being operated on. Free of charge for day care surgery and its transportation from mentally disabled children is a big gap in the family of disabled children, and the weakening of transport services excludes disabled people from the four walls. This is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Is the government really going to operate on the weakest people, disabled children, disabled elderly people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u60	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say when Mr Karimäki raised this whole, which is linked to the fact that we are making a big package of EUR 1 billion for public finances that we want to improve this state of the economy. As Ahtisaari said the other day: if we do not get the economy right, we can say goodbye to the whole welfare society. The Greens have also been involved in the last parliamentary term when they were in the government seeking this reduction in the duties and obligations of the municipalities of EUR 1 billion, and then it did nothing at all. I would like to say that, first of all, I welcome the commitment of all the parliamentary parties, including all the opposition parties today, to achieving this EUR 1 billion objective, and that is what this is all about. There are also difficult issues here, as we all know together, but the whole is important in order to get public finances in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u61	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u62	Madam President! The government has banged on the suspenders because it does not reduce the central government shares of municipalities during this parliamentary term. Have you in the government estimated the impact of your policies on local government finances, given that municipalities save up to EUR 400 million and tighten up fiscal policies reduce their incomes and increase their spending, not to mention reimbursement of medicines and travel allowances and increases in customer service fees? Have you assessed how you will weaken local government finances through these measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u63	Mr President! As regards the local government finances situation, this is always assessed as part of the budgetary plan and was last carried out at the time of the last budget debate. Now we are beginning to have a preliminary outlook on the financial statements of the municipalities of last year, and they are not as bad as they have been in the past. The situation in the local government economy is serious, but when you look at it, for example, in view of this year, less municipalities raised their tax rates this year than they had previously raised, so that this situation is not quite catastrophic. But when we look at the whole of public finances, I also think it is important that the finances of the municipalities are in good shape and that they are able to secure the services for the citizens that belong to the municipalities today and also in the future. But let me tell you, even in the recent debate on pensioners, that while we look at livelihoods, we also have to look at services. And for services, the central government shares of municipalities are very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u64	Madam President! There was also a very surprising presentation on this list, namely the removal of small animal emergency services from the municipality to the private side. It is a very bad presentation in animal welfare terms. Few people can afford private veterinary services. This may lead to a deterioration in our animal welfare situation. However, pets are very important to humans. The question now arises as to whether this line is based on the fact that in future the poor will no longer have the money or the right to keep even pets. This also affects the care and care of farmed animals. In the vast majority of municipalities, the care of farmed animals and on-call services are not enough to provide a living for the veterinarian. This can lead to a deterioration in food safety, a deterioration in the state of clean and safe food. Now I ask: where did such an idea come from, and how much do you really think this will save?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u65	Mr President! Where did these ideas come from? They have, of course, left our entire ministries, namely our substance ministries and not the Ministry of Finance's municipal or regional or budget department, and these have formed the whole. I agree with Mr Arhinmäki that this is not a straightforward matter. It is precisely for this reason that, both for farmed animals and then for pet animals too, we may not be able to secure veterinary services for those farmed animals either. I share this idea that this is not simple. But then I ask a question when there is a great deal of concern here about the duties and duties of the municipalities. We all have to ask the question of what the municipality really is responsible for when the public finances are being corrected. Is it really the case that the municipality must also be able to provide veterinary services for pet animals?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u66	Värderade fru talman! Mr Karimäki mentioned here that the age limit for special services for people with disabilities is being set at 75 years, but disability does not disappear with age. If this proposal is adopted, the financial situation and quality of life of many older disabled persons will be significantly reduced, especially if the right to a personal assistant is suddenly removed. Is this not contrary to the equality of citizens guaranteed by Article 6 of the Constitution, namely discrimination on the basis of age?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u67	Madam President! As regards the situation of people with disabilities, the preparatory work at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has mainly taken place and for these reasons has taken place during the last parliamentary term. On the one hand, because it has been a long-term objective to combine the Disability Services Act and the Disability Act — that work is being done. Secondly, there is a document from May 2015 which, among other things, has opened up this 75-year age limit at the essential point where the life-cycle situation of a person is not the factor determining the need for services. With regard to the first question as well as Mr Adlercreutz's question: in the future, we will have a legal basis to take care of every disabled person and mentally disabled person, both older and child. That's where we start. In how this will be done and done,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u68	Mr President! I suppose it could be assumed that if this job of cutting down and clearing up municipal tasks was somehow easy, the last government would have succeeded in doing so. However, I believe that, despite the good objective that has been signed by all the parliamentary parties, this list could not be shortened in the last period. The work was not easy for this government either, and not all points are easily ignored. I think, however, that I think it is appropriate to correct the assessment made by the Greens on the question of the exclusion of services for disabled people. I would like the Minister to clarify now whether it is not, however, a question of continuing to provide society with the services it needs, regardless of age, but they will be more of a means-tested one. I believe that this issue has been cast into the open with a shadow that I am sure will cause even now unnecessary anxiety and anxiety.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u69	Madam President! This country will continue to bear responsibility for people whose own powers are not enough to live. In this country, people with disabilities and people with mental disabilities, regardless of age, will continue to be assured of social support and assistance. We have an old-age service law. We will have a new law that combines the Disability Services Act and the Disability Act. We have the Social Welfare Act, which obliges us to draw up service plans, to appoint a carer or a person in charge. These people who will be affected by this change will not be left empty, but the welfare society called Finland will continue to take care of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u70	And then the author of the original question, Mr Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u71	Madam President! Mr Adlercreutz very well explained that this is a serious issue of age discrimination when a person turns 75 and loses his or her right to services under the Disability Act. It is intolerable that the most vulnerable people should be cut. You have already weakened the reimbursement of medicines and travel expenses, and these cuts in municipal tasks also involve a cut of more than EUR 30 million from the services of the elderly. Many of the elderly's relatives have been concerned that when they want to live as long as possible at home and survive there, however, the services to be taken home, the support services, have not been enough to make the elderly safe and comfortable in their own homes. What does the government do to improve the position of the elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u74	Next question, Congressman Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u75	Madam President! Yesterday, the government announced the elements which it felt should be included in the model of local agreement. It is good that the government has agreed that the model should be applied for, above all, through collective agreements, and it is good that negotiations are now taking place where they should take place, i.e. between the social partners, but trust in the labour market and in this negotiating situation will not be built by the government, on the other hand, by once again putting a forced strike on the negotiating parties in case an agreement is not reached in accordance with the objectives set by the government. Why is the government putting this important reform at risk and getting to it again by using this pressure on forced law in a difficult negotiating situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u76	Madam President! Mr Uotila raises a very topical, big and important issue, namely this situation in the labour market and, in this context, this local agreement. I myself have interpreted these comments in such a way that no one is forced to do so. Now this went in a constructive direction, this moved forward. The labour market organisations have welcomed this welcome from the government, and this is, in my opinion, the interpretation where we are. I personally believe that, by moving in this way, we will come to an agreement on this in the end, but of course this is on the labour market tables, but the government is also a party to this, we must remember that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u77	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u78	Madam President! After all, the government has a key responsibility for the consolidation of the Finnish economy, and I too welcome it with joy, as Minister Lindström said, that a step forward has been made here. We need a job-specific agreement, and if I understand correctly, this is, in a way, a question of close democracy in the workplace. Workplaces are looking for solutions that can, for example, make working hours and some additional wage arrangements. Is it not, Minister, that with this solution the government is also seeking to promote close democracy in the workplace and to create such working time arrangements in order to safeguard those jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u79	Madam President! That's right. Whenever we talk about this local agreement, we have to talk about strengthening the position of staff in the workplace in the same breath. And that's the key to this. This knife threat from Mr Uotila is precisely the kind of debate we do not need for this. I think that we need constructive ideas from your side as well. Thank you for the fact that, among other things, on the Socialist side, we have come to the fore on this point, that this has now moved forward. Let us not mess this up ourselves, Mr Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u80	Mr President! I think I have done at least as much local agreement as Minister Lindström did in the past, and I know that local agreement is important. But there are a couple of things involved in these principles of government. The starting points include the need to agree on wages, working hours and benefits in the workplace and the need for final decision-making in the workplace. On the other hand, the government does not propose any change as regards the right to interpret, but the employer has the right to interpret. If there is a dispute as to whether or not the day will be extended, whether wages will be reduced or further reduced, and if there is no agreement, then the workers will no longer have the opportunity to challenge and refer this to the unions, but the employer’s right of interpretation will force even violent impairments. Workplace contracts are needed, but there is also a need for a more equal position of workers in the workplace and for agreement. Is the government proposing some improvements with regard to the right of interpretation in order to achieve a more balanced situation in the workplace?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u81	Madam President! The tripartite working group in which this is now is going to go over these details. The government announced yesterday, we have indeed told that it must be able to agree locally on working hours, wages, wages, allowances, the remuneration system, but the representation of staff must be guaranteed in the management of the company, which is also there. In other words, there is a strong involvement of the staff, but there will be a proposal, after which we will see what it is like, and then we will draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u82	Madam President! This is a complex whole, and what we are trying to do on the part of the government is to find common ground with the social partners in order to make local reconciliation work. We set the bar, which in practice has five objectives, one of which is that non-organised companies are on the same track. The second is that, as you said, we can agree on wages and working hours locally. The third is the crisis clause, which means that if a company is in a difficult situation, let us see how we can be flexible on both sides so that unemployment is not flexible once again. In addition to that, we wanted employees to be represented in the governments, as in Sweden. The aim of all of this is precisely to give the final decision-making power to the workplace.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u83	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u84	Mr President, ärade talman! Minister Lindströms tingsrättsreform slår särskilt hårt mot de TVåspråkiga regionerna i vårt land. Förslaget kan faktiskt ha förödande consekenser med tanke på öjligheten att trygga den Svenskspråkiga befolkningens språkliga rättigheter och med tanke på ett liskärdigt rättsskydd för under.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u85	Madam President! This is the background to what Mr Henriksson knows very well. During this framework, by 2019 the budget for this item of the Courts will be reduced by EUR 16 million. This proposal for a solution, which is now, will indeed be a saving of EUR 5 million. There's still some juice left. Even if we had made a network of 14 or 17 district courts on the basis of a proposal from this group during the last parliamentary term, they would not have made this savings of EUR 16 million. It is quite true that these savings are small, but they are necessary in order for us to be able to stay within the framework, for us the money is enough. We have tried to build this as comprehensively as we can. This original performance was 14 or 17, and now it was 20. It was behind a hard twist, and I'm afraid to defend it. It is regionally comprehensive and takes into account, among other things, travel, distances, transport connections, etc.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u86	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u87	Mr President! Language judges are good, but they are not enough on their own. We also need other staff who can serve really, really, also in Swedish. We have a lot of experience with that. That is why a proper linguistic impact assessment is needed here, which apparently has not been done. However, Mr President, the abolition of district court offices is very likely to result, on a regional basis, in a reduction in legal services. The Finnish Bar Association and The Legal Union itself has intervened in this issue and they have great concern that the legal security of the citizens will deteriorate and that there will be great inequalities between the localities. In what way do you intend to ensure that legal protection remains high also for law enforcement services throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u88	Madam President! Now that this issue is moving forward, then this kind of working group will be set up, whose task will be to look both at this administration, these activities and then these premises arrangements, and its task will also be to make the final government proposal that will come at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. It looks at these things. In this report, where this was 14 or 17, these effects had been assessed, and I have been told very carefully by the expert civil service of the Ministry of Justice on this matter that these legal services have not decreased as much as could have been imagined in some previous decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u89	Madam President! Not only is Mr Henriksson, a Swedish-speaking locality scheduled to be cut off from these district courts, but Kotka is also planned to be cut in exactly the same way, and at least it is the Minister's own country of origin that you cannot at least blame for being drawn home. I would then ask Minister Lindström whether it is possible for you to consider some compensatory measures, for example, in Kotka, which are perhaps now being cut off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u90	Mr President! It is quite true that there are areas where some of the offices now planned for closure have a long lease agreement — such as Pietarsaari until 26 and Kotka until the end of 22. It is clear that in this transition period this activity will probably not end at 24 hours, but will probably remain in these activities. It is the task of this working group now to see how this issue is balanced so that these things do not come to these which remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u91	Madam President! Indeed, the government has announced that it is cutting down district courts hard, and it is clear that this will increase regional inequalities among citizens and undermine access to justice. In addition, there are these indirect effects: in addition to the jobs of district courts, other jobs in the legal field are also leaving, both in law firms and law firms, and these trips are unduly long. These will be borne by the public and the workers will now be on the road. The impact of the 2010 reform should have been examined first. Now it seems that the first one has been lost and has not been studied at all. But I ask you, Minister Lindström, when this reform was most painful for Lapland — we left both Tornio and Kemi district courts, and in addition the note was placed on other hatches: while your party partner Mäntylä is from that region of Meri-Lap,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u92	Madam President! I can assure you that there were petitions from all sides. As I said, it has been tried to build as balancedly as it could ever be. I would point out that there was a presentation at the bottom, either 14 or 17, and neither one was chosen, but the greatest possible thing was chosen that could be done. In my opinion, it was more of a victory. So I understand that it is said that "hard hand" and "what happens with legal certainty". Of course, legal certainty should be taken into account and taken into account in this situation. It is the task of this working group, it considers that all these criteria are met with this new, proposed network.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u93	There is still time for one more question: Mr Salolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u94	Madam President! How do you, Mr Soini, view the serious possibility of Britain leaving the European Union? What consequences would it have in economic, commercial and foreign policy terms in the current tense climate in Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u95	Madam President! This is an extremely serious and important issue, which is what will be negotiated tonight. The Vice-President, Ambassador Salolainen is very well aware of the importance of this. Britain is the second largest economy in the European Union. It is the second largest net contributor. It is perhaps the strongest military force in the European Union. It is a complete disaster for the European Union — not necessarily for Britain, but for the European Union — if they decide to leave. I do not give instructions on what the British should vote for, but I say that if all these things happen, the fall in Finland will increase. If there is a good result of the negotiations, there may be something there that will also benefit Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u96	And Minister Stubb briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u97	Madam President! In many ways this is a very important day for Europe and the European Union. In the short term, both through market turbulence and others, and in the long term, it would be extremely regrettable economically and politically, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said there, to the European Union, Britain and Finland if Britain were to resign. I personally believe that the effects of Britain's departure from the EU would, among other things, be devastating on the financial markets. We will do everything in this government to ensure that Britain does not leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u98	Minister Toivakka, very briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u99	Mr President! This is a very important question. For example, when we consider trade policy, Britain, like Finland, is in favour of trade liberalisation and has, in that sense, been an important ally for us in considering trade liberalisation negotiations. In another sense too: Britain is the sixth most important export destination for us, 5.2 per cent of Finland's exports go to Britain. Now, if Britain were to remain outside the EU, new agreements, some EFTA-style or EU-Turkey agreements should be concluded, and Finland could have difficulties trading with Britain in that delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u100	(tapping )
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u101	Madam President! The citizens' initiative to ban zero labour contracts must be welcomed with joy as one of the reformers of working life, which also protects against the direct illegality that today's workers are facing in their own employment relations. The unfortunate examples are precisely the fact that our public services, such as hospitals, have jobs of up to two years, but there is still a zero-employment contract. This is a quick way of circumventing, for example, the payment of sick pay and so on, and this zero agreement puts this worker in a particularly difficult position. He undertakes to be available to his employer for 40 hours, but he is not promised working hours other than that zero. If there is an unjustified refusal of duty, claiming that there is another reason — i.e. that there is child care to be arranged — then you can be sure that this type of person will not be among the workers to be sought for the next time but will be so-called discriminated against in that employment relationship. He is tied up in a contract, and then it is impossible to take work elsewhere during that time. It is therefore very good that this initiative is on the table here. I hope that it will have a good success with Parliament and, in particular, with good consideration in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, in considering all the things that have been brought into this initiative. It should be borne in mind that the condition of basic earnings-related daily allowance, i.e. the condition of employment, is fulfilled for the 18 hours per week mentioned in this Act. Otherwise, a person who is on a zero contract and who does not fill the 18-week period has not fulfilled the working conditions. For example, the impact of this on the temporary work market is rather heavy. In particular, temporary workers face the fate of not being invited to work as soon as they become ill. So, for some strange reason, even the planned and planned shift is cancelled because it is possible to avoid paying sick pay. It is particularly important to note that this is a matter of job security that an employee has earned. Invoices, insurance premiums, food must be bought, and then we must try to ensure that the employee has some idea and predictability about the wages that come from his own employment relationship. Of course, when this issue is discussed in committee, it is certainly worth noting that we have other obstacles to taking up work, which do not allow part-time workers to take up work, because this social system is, in its own way, an obstacle to taking on additional work. This does not exclude the possibility for students to continue using a zero employment relationship and to accept work. This does not have the negative effects that the social partners have learned that it would hinder employment. This is certainly not an obstacle to employment. An employee must be entitled to take part-time work if he/she wishes to do so for a legitimate reason. Nor does this bill prevent you from accepting work that is not 18 hours a week. All casual and occasional employment relationships can and work can be accepted. I would like to see this become an extension of the previous government or the previous government, which safeguards and allows us to place ourselves in work so that, when we have the EUR 300 component of protection, these things could now be viewed as a little bit different, that it is good to make it possible to get into work, but it is important to create a security in the employment relationship that provides predictability for the employment relationship. Madam President! I could talk about this for an hour and five days.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u104	Madam President! I believe that this citizens' initiative is very important because it highlights one of the unfair problems in working life that must be dealt with by fair legislation. The correction of the Zero Treaty was in the election goal of the Social Democrats in 2015, which is why we are pleased to welcome the citizens' initiative in Parliament. In 2014, 83,000 employees worked on a zero hour contract. There are many problems with these agreements, the field is very diverse. Zero contracts are employment relationships without employment security. The zero agreement defines the estimated number of hours, which may vary from zero to full-time work. In practice, this means that the employer can drop the hours to zero, which in reality means the end of work and livelihood, but at the same time the employee is tied to the contract. So the employer has the power. On the other hand, zero contracts are also used for the sole purpose of circumventing employment protection in situations where the employer would have regular employment opportunities. In these situations, a fixed employment contract should be concluded for the time being, which would ensure a permanent job. According to Statistics Finland, almost one third of zero-hour employees work full weekly working hours. It is precisely this type of activity that needs to be addressed by legislation. A zero-hour worker is at a disadvantage in working life. He is very much dependent on the employer; situations can become very difficult. Work may not be offered for weeks, no pay or occasional hours. The problem is also that you will not receive unemployment benefit if you resign. You can't plan your life forward because an invitation to work can come anytime and then you have to go. On the other hand, it is difficult to take on another job in order to secure a living if the employer does not take it in a positive and flexible way. The risk is that you will lose the job offered by the employer who has signed a zero contract, which has, however, enabled the employee to have a working experience and a low income. So the situation is uncertain and confusing. The uncertainty of working hours makes life, especially for families with children, unreasonably difficult. On the other hand, starting a family is a huge risk for a zero hour worker. It may be impossible to get a mortgage or even a credit card. It is true that more than one third of those working on a zero-hour contract are students, and for many of them this situation is going to be very well organised. We Social Democrats are not preventing students or, for example, part-time pensioners from obtaining additional earnings, on the contrary. Different opportunities to earn a living and gain work experience must be developed and improved, but they must be fair and fair and clarified by more precise legislation. Our view is that fewer hours could still be agreed on the employee's wish. A person or family may have situations in which contracts of less than 18 hours support the life situation then. The most important thing here is that it is done in agreement with the employer, in accordance with the wishes of the employee. Flexible employment must continue to be possible and employment should not be made more difficult. However, the avoidance of employment security and the abuse of a large-scale system must stop. This is probably our common goal with those who have taken the initiative. Madam President! The starting point must be that work ensures adequate income for everyone and labour law ensures adequate employment security for everyone. In an inquiry commissioned by Operation Vakiduun, two of the three employees wanted to ban the zero-hour contracts. This citizens' initiative is a good basis for legislative reform to prevent the use of zero-hour contracts to circumvent employment security. An equal marriage law was a good example of how the citizens' initiative has produced a good law through further preparation. I hope that the government parties and Parliament will take this issue seriously and take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u105	Madam President! The change in working life, the increase in shredding and insecurity in the labour market, is a real problem in the lives of many people and families at the moment. One important factor that increases this uncertainty is these so-called zero-hour contracts. It is estimated that up to 83,000 people work on these zero-hour contracts, i.e. zero-hour contracts. Unfortunately, these zero-hour contracts are also commonly used in the labour market in situations where more work is available. This poses a major challenge for an employee to plan his or her life. Furthermore, the current situation does not oblige the employer to plan shifts and the employee can easily be removed. Fortunately, there has been a popular movement around this instance, which calls for a change. Today we are dealing with the citizens' initiative to put an end to this problem in order to ban zero-hour contracts. We now have the opportunity to address these shortcomings, which the initiative raises. The ban on zero-hour contracts was also a strong part of the SDP's election programme. In fact, Eetu, who earned EUR 1,672 from four different employers in December 2014, appeared in the SDP's short-term work package. Correspondingly, this same guy earned EUR 67 from the same employers in January 2015. I think that this example is a good illustration of this problem of zero-hour contracts. I would point out that at the moment, for example, sign language interpreters work almost all in such precarious employment relationships. This means that workers cannot be throwing bags with a face-to-face factor. That is why we need to address these uncertainties in working life, which the citizens' initiative is also trying to resolve. In my opinion, it is not unreasonable to require an employer to think in advance about the need for work in the same way that employees have to pay their rent and other needs for living. In addition, employees of a zero-hour contract have neither the possibility of sickness or other security, such as the right to earnings-related benefits. I would point out that half of the people who work on a zero-hour contract are also at the age of starting a family, i.e. between 24 and 29 years of age. In my opinion, the focus of the citizens' initiative is precisely to value work — the kind of work that everyone can do. As Mr Kiljunen pointed out earlier, this does not prevent, for example, students from getting extra money, but specifically strengthens the principle that everyone has to work to get along. For my part, I would like to thank the work done by this people's movement and also to support this initiative and to address the shortcomings of the zero-hour agreements. I would like to remind you of the SDP's objective that the SDP specifically defends the right of workers to adequate income and predictability in working life. In addition, I cannot fail to ask because Minister Lindström is here: I dug up such an interview with JHL, a flat-line interview on 15 May 2013, in which you were then asked whether you feel you should intervene in zero-hour contracts and these offences. You said that we should — hopefully we should continue to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u106	Let's take this stage in the debate. When the minister is here, he will then also hear questions and possibly give some of his ideas as answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u107	Mr President! There's no law on zero employment contracts. They're just born to work there. Remedies to these issues are about equality in working life. We have many situations where, in principle, we are seeking flexibility within the working community. If the employer only needs a few hours of work, there are other possibilities for concluding those contracts than zero-employment contracts, which are flexible in every direction. For example, the provisions on dismissal can be circumvented indefinitely. You can have full hours for months at first. After you do something you don't like, there'll be only zero hours from then on. If you try to get rid of such a contract of employment, you will be put in a tough position on the grounds that you have, as it were, left a decent job. There are no similar provisions in lay-off, but you can receive unemployment benefit directly if the lay-off has lasted a certain period, so that you can then look for a new job. We have a non-compete clause which, in some tasks, restricts the fact that it cannot be done
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u108	Let us stick to these one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u109	Madam President! The fact that zero-hour contracts are problematic for many workers has already been mentioned in many speeches. It must be borne in mind that they are also problematic for many companies, that is, for all those companies that are nice enough to pay their employees' social security contributions and so on. In other words, zero-hour contracts make the current labour market situation more difficult and complicated, where companies are no longer on an equal footing. The shortcomings in the zero-hour contracts have been explained in several working groups, in the zero-hour contract report and in the tripartite regular working groups of the social partners themselves. We've had a lot of conversations. However, there has been no consensus on the measures or the preparation of matters has always been continued elsewhere. I would now like to ask the Minister: is the government willing to resolve the shortcomings of the zero-hour contracts and make working life fairer?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u110	Mr President! 38% of those with zero-hour contracts are students and two thirds are quite satisfied with the current situation. If you ask, then, if these zero agreements are banned, will it increase the amount of work to be done in Finland, will it increase the fact that more and more Finns are working, then the answer to both is no. It is a fact that there are areas where this need for labour is very mobile and difficult to predict. But I do understand that the person who should have his main livelihood on this zero-hour contract has a real problem here. That is why I think that a good solution is what the Trade Union has done, that is, if the employer is unable to provide a full-time job, the employee is also not obliged to accept it. One day you can be at Lidl's cashier, one day at S's cashier, the other day at Kesko's cashier and thus earn a living. I think that's a sensible way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u111	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Satonen that we will certainly be discussing every week in this Chamber how we can increase employment and improve the employment situation, but this is about the rules of the labour market, the rules of the labour market and also the quality of working life. In other words, the main problem with these zero-hour contracts is that they allow labour market legislation and also the rules of the labour market to be circumvented in a way that leaves many workers completely without employment security in the event of problems. Mr Lindström, you clearly also recognise these shortcomings in these zero-hour contracts. You, among other things, signed the legislative initiatives of Congressman Jari Myllykoski last season, which contained the same type of correction as is now the case with this citizens' initiative. I would like to ask the Minister how you are now going to take measures to remedy these shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u112	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is absolutely necessary: to bring some kind of debate to this zero-job contract line and the changes that make sense. I believe that this government will find them. There is certainly one aspect here that must be clearly distinguished, however, from the fact that there are different employers and jobs. A distinction must be made between micro-entrepreneurs and large companies, in my opinion. Micro-entrepreneurs can be those who employ only one person, the self-employed one, and they may sometimes need an employee. Of course, there should be a different degree of flexibility for them than for large companies. Personally, I do not understand the way in which, for example, the retail chain then divides the workers into two or more castes, and in this way it is as if a zero-labour contract has kept some workers in a different position. This so-called exploitation of workers even in such so-called urgent situations, even in Christmastime, I find it unacceptable. In principle, the same employer should have the same status as employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u113	Madam President! As a former researcher of working life and especially of the informal and pre-coacher, I hear how carelessly Mr Satonen uses the word 'fact' when he claims that this would reduce the amount of work done in Finland. If the employer does not have a job, then he does not hire anyone, no matter what the employment relationship is. On the other hand, if he has unworked work, he has a wide variety of reasonable options that offer the same degree of flexibility as this model. On the other hand, from an employee's point of view, the issue is a significantly less flexible solution, for example, by the fact that, due to different competition rules, operating in different companies at the same time with a zero-hour contract may not be possible, or by the fact that unemployment security is being called into question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u114	Madam President! It is certainly true that there is room for improvement in the rules of working life, and this is also the point we are discussing here. However, in my opinion, Mr Niikko raised an essential point here: The only thing that is unfortunate about the legislation is that it applies to everyone. The problem with this citizens' initiative is that, as it is now written, it would apply to all companies, including those engaged in regular employment activities. Take an example of baby swimming that happens once a week. There may be the same director every week, when working hours really do not exceed 18 hours, and yet there may be regular activities. So all these things should be taken into account. Surely this citizens' initiative certainly requires quite a lot of development in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u115	Madam President! I myself made a contract of employment about 15 years ago, which said that the employer would then contact me. It was building cleaning, a pretty heavy but rewarding job. I waited, work was supposed to start, there was no call. I waited a week, two, three, four, couldn't hear, I picked up another job. An example of how it is a great waste not only for the worker but also for other employers and, above all, for society, which missed all that tax revenue, for example, for one month. This affects 83,000 people at the moment, probably hundreds of thousands of people at some point in their careers have been affected. Now there are real job heroes in the gallery who have not only collected their own work but also made it possible for us to have a debate here today. Mr President! Mr. Minister of Labour, they're looking at you now. Are you keeping the promise you made before the election? And by the way, Mr President, I am still waiting for that call.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u116	Madam President! Once again, this is a subject in which I am able to join almost all these speeches. Here again, there is no black and white — as a former nurse of short-term care, then again as an employer on the farm in the summer and now as an employer on the farm. It's been really nice meeting these people from Vakiduun, as well as there. In Iisalmi that today here in Helsinki. It is also true that there is no point in sacrificing the flexibility of working life, because every job is needed today. But today I heard from Mr Vakiduun that he has been on a zero-hour contract for more than two years and he still does not get a permanent job. Things like this are indeed the kind of things that we should be dealing with, because there is a need for security. Many of these are young people with the birth of a family,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u117	Mr President! This citizens' initiative does raise some very important issues and the major problems of these zero-hour agreements: this potential toughness, which could have happened even if there were no practical work to be done, and the problems of absenteeism, vacations and the combination of work and family, when, in practice, the zero-contracters are constantly in such a loose hang. However, I am not sure whether the ban is the best solution for this, because our working life is being fragmented and there are more and more small entrepreneurs who may be able to offer a few hours, but if that 18 hours is set to a minimum, then they may have nothing to offer. I would like solutions to be found to these problems and, for example, reserve could include a requirement to pay for it, or, on the other hand, if very quickly invited to work, there could be an increased hourly salary. And of course basic income, the combination of social security and work, is one way that would make this a great deal easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u118	Mr President! Working life is fragmented, people are now doing more short-term jobs, part-time jobs, work in very precarious employment relationships, and this is also demonstrated by these zero-hour contracts. This, of course, creates a rather precarious situation for workers, particularly in terms of the future, how to plan your own life, how to plan your own family's life, and this concern is genuine, something that this citizens' initiative raises specifically from the workers' point of view. That is why I hope that Parliament will be very much in agreement with this initiative, and I also hope to hear from the Minister for Labour, Mr Lindström, that he will continue to want to contribute to this. But I would like to say to Mr Mikkonen here, as has been said here before, that although this initiative seeks to ban zero-hour contracts, it would still be possible to continue working in this type of employment for a justified reason, even in the future, on the basis of the will of the worker.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u119	Mr President! After all, this initiative raises its great concern about the main problem of the current situation in the Finnish labour market itself, unemployment, and perhaps the fragmentation of employment relations, but also about the situation of the Finnish labour market in ten years' time, the permanence, long-term or otherwise. This is, of course, a place for a massively bigger debate than just a single citizens' initiative. However, I feel that, although the problems currently arise in the Finnish labour market, even in the use of zero-hour contracts, the government should now consider all the means to introduce more flexibility, more opportunities for work, including the recommendations of the international economic research institutes on the additional flexibility of the labour market, in order to improve employment, but at the same time it would be possible to fill these gaps. In other words, a balanced solution that looks at both sides of the issue of increasing employment and job opportunities and reducing inequalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u120	Madam President! Food must be bought every week, rents or mortgage repayments, bills, must be paid every month. It also requires a secure livelihood for a person who primarily works. Therefore, these zero-hour contracts are completely unreasonable to employees. You can't plan your life forward at all, you can't start a family, you can't live in constant uncertainty. It is therefore very important that this problem be addressed. At the same time, as has been pointed out here, a zero-hour agreement can work for students who are not mainly in employment, and it is therefore important that the employee's own will is less than this 18 hours. Madam President! Mr Lindström has taken an active position in the past that these zero-hour contracts are a problem and need to be addressed. I therefore believe that together Parliament and the Minister for Labour will find a solution that will enable us to tackle these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u121	Mr President! We had an opportunity in January, such a short-time Pamfletti, where there was a guy named Eetu. He had four employers with zero-hour contracts and Eetu made EUR 1678 in December 2014 and EUR 67 in January from the same four employers. Everyone understands that this kind of situation increases social inequality and prevents the realisation of equal opportunities. I, too, believe that Minister Lindström will keep his promise in these matters and will act to ensure that these zero-hour agreements are prohibited in such a way that those who do not genuinely want to do so will be guaranteed the 18 hours which, according to current legislation, will also guarantee unemployment protection for these people. I very much hope that, Minister Lindström, you will be behind this issue together with the majority of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u122	Madam President! Minister, I would like to ask you a direct question, Mr Lindström: do you think it is unreasonable for a person who terminates a zero-labour contract to be placed in a tough position even if he has not been offered hours of work for a long time? If you think this is unreasonable, do you intend to dismantle this rule?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u123	Madam President! I understand the concern for the future and for the livelihood, but of course it must also be noted that three out of four people working part-time in Finland are working part-time on their own volition today, so that they want such a smaller job — 40 per cent of them, for example — and only one in four would want full-time employment. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Mr Lindström: is there a need for a law on this now that we have been talking about not going by law but seeking solutions? In the trade sector, there is a job model that has been developed in cooperation with PAM, i.e. this kind of good local agreement at the workplace between employees and employers. Can't we find a model for this that would be flexible and where we didn't have to go?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u124	Madam President! It is very important that today, in this Chamber, we discuss a citizens' initiative aimed at securing a minimum working time for all those in employment. This zero contractuality or, if necessary, the situation to be called on to work is extremely unfair for the worker and often puts the workers at the same place of work in a completely unequal position, that is to say that this is also an issue of equality between workers, that we are defending by law those who are disadvantaged, in this case people who are working in such a so-called zero contract, who are therefore not really protected by the kind of employment security that should be the minimum security. And this bill certainly does not knock out the fact that, if an employee wishes to do so, in certain situations of life, less than 18 hours can be done, but it is precisely to be protected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u125	I would like to draw attention to the 1 minute response that everyone will then have their own voice and questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u126	Madam President! I do not take a very firm position on this issue, but I would like to give an example: we are retiring an employee who has worked there for 40 years, and he asked me if he would be allowed to do so after retirement. Of course, good craftsmanship and everything, it's good for the company. But when now comes this kind of law, raise a little bit of the steps that can be taken. Is this an employee's interest, an employer's interest in raising a little of it? Practice is always different from the book. It's always different, it's different. So I am concerned about him and also about his work which we need.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u127	Representative Lindtman and then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u128	Madam President! There have now been a lot of concerns in the debate that would be allayed if those Members who have expressed these concerns read this citizens' initiative carefully. It is not a question of preventing students from working if this is done of their own accord. Nor, as far as these temporary work, which was referred to here, are concerned. What is really at stake is that if the agreement only defines that working time is something between, for example, 0 and 40, then in those situations, Mr Heinonen, these part-time workers, who are otherwise different statistics, that quarter is also a very large number. 83,000 people are currently working like this. There's no certainty about the future. The rent has to be paid every month, but as this Eetu, which has already become famous in this debate, suddenly the next month, the income was only EUR 67. And now the essential question is that when you start driving from there to Joensuu, for example, there are many Citymarkets on the way, some City Markets have 30% part-time, or those on a zero contract, and others 80. This is about the organisation of work. Mr Lindström, it is now important to hear your opinion: do you support this project?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u129	Then Minister Lindström, up to five minutes, please. And then the debate goes on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u130	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for a good debate on an important subject. During the last parliamentary term, when I was asked about this matter, I gave interviews — they have already been quoted here — and I expressed my opinion, and in fact that was my position then, and it is still the same, so I repeat that if a person wants to have a zero-hour contract, it must be allowed. It was my greatest concern here, because there may be situations, as in this debate now it has turned out that this kind of model can be quite justified. In fact, in this initiative, here in point 4.8, flexibility from the point of view of the employee and the employer, this issue is being raised. So this is the chance. The Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, Mr Filatov, challenged to find solutions together with the Minister. Yes, we need fair rules for working life. I don't think it's gonna change what I think about putting the ministernats around my neck.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u133	All right, then let's get on with the debut. That's where Congressman Heikkinen comes first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u134	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for this speech. I believe that that human habit is appreciated up there too, and you have a truly everyday knowledge of these problems. It may be that instead of a strict ban, such local agreement and agreement on working conditions may be the other way to find a solution to this. Indeed, as a member of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, I look forward to getting to grips with this issue in committee and with the minister. But, as I said in my previous speech, one major problem is precisely this use of zero-hour contracts for years. It creates a terrible distortion in the care sector, for example. Now that we are in the process of social reform, we demand that everything be transparent, that public and private must compete side by side. In a way, they also create more distortion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u135	Madam President! It is good that the debate is taking place, and the committee will certainly be able to give the best possible consideration to this issue so that the obstacles to participation in employment can also be considered at the same time. But it should now be noted that this citizens' bill seeks to safeguard those workers, the minimum conditions needed for working life. For example, the previous opening hours of shops were sold to employees so that they talked about the obligation to provide additional work, which we have under the Employment Contracts Act, but it is not complied with in any way by employers. It is very weak, but it is taking over and over again more part-time people, even though there are people there who are reluctant to work part-time. This would now create a guarantee that this undesirable part-time work would come under some sort of control and would not be taken as an obstacle to the fact that participation in and access to the work would not be facilitated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u136	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for that reply. In this very Chamber, it is good to think about what we expect and assume from legislation. It is good to hear from the Minister that we need those fair rules. We need to consider the needs and demand of the industry and also the need for labour, but also the different life situations of its employees and the different opportunities to work. As far as legislation is concerned, I see the need to create a field of action with fair rules and an enabling atmosphere. We need to steer a supportive, long-term, fair solution, and fences more there to the outer limits of the playing field than to the limit of every field. In that sense, I find it difficult that we are still discussing:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u137	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the Minister. Although there was a certain vagueness about the means, I did interpret the Minister in such a way that there are clearly changes to be made and that you also support them. That is very positive. I would also like to comment, above all, on those representatives of the Coalition Party who are constantly talking here about students who voluntarily work on zero-hour contracts, that this group has been explicitly taken into account in this citizens' initiative, and that is what will continue to be possible. To the representative of the Greens: In fact, I was a little disappointed that the basic income came up in this context, because I consider it to be a very welcome and important reform. But it must by no means be seen as an alternative solution to the fact that we correct the shortcomings in working life that exist and that we take care, for example, of the worker's job security, which is now the most important problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u138	Mr President! Representative Kontula here pointed out that she has been a researcher in working life. I know, but I don't know if you've been an employer, but I've been in a very small barbecue kiosk and employed one person two days a week, which was less than this 18 hour. I have to say that, if this were banned, surely in our company me and the partner would have done more work themselves, and that would also have been unemployable. When you read this performance, you have to have a special reason for it here and then some authority will assess whether or not I have work in my grill for that person, which seems like a pretty tough system. I understand that if I can only offer 16 hours a week, this person will have to be entitled to unemployment benefit if he is not able to work elsewhere. Then we will come to the coordination of work and unemployment security and the basic income debate, and that will be all right but not the rigid system that is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u139	Mr President! Representative for Satonen: I have also been an employer for many years, and I also know the problems involved. Indeed, I agree with Mr Satos that this proposal does not fully reflect on situations where there is less work than that 18 hours in the company as a whole, but the work is regular in such a way that one cannot talk about occasional work. This is the kind of thing that I promise Mr Satonen, at least, that when this matter comes to committee, I will keep it on the table and we will find a solution to this together so that such employment situations will continue to be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u140	Madam President! It inevitably comes to mind that this is a good illustration of our current labour market field and of the present time in which we live. Of course, the starting point should always be that work must be profitable, but we cannot help the fact that our labour market has been shredded terribly. As far as I am concerned, the social security debate must also continue to be carried alongside us in the best possible way to combine working life and social security, and that is something that the authors of the initiative will pay attention to, and I also hope that in committee attention will be paid to the way in which things like this, which do short-term jobs, would, however, be secured for holiday and sickness benefits. And, of course, the rules of the game must be that no one wants to act in an abusive and wrong labour market. However, I am not yet quite convinced that it would be legally laid down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u141	Mr President! There has also been a lot of talk in this debate about the fragmentation and dismemberment of working life, and that is the case, but this situation has not been achieved quite by itself; it is precisely these zero-hour contracts that have shattered the labour market, because it has made it possible to do work without proper job security, which would otherwise be the case for workers. And that is precisely why it is necessary and important for us to address these problems in working life, which are now being addressed by this initiative. I myself am glad that the Minister did not, at least from the outset, knock out the fact that these shortcomings are now being corrected. However, I would still like to see some strength from the whole government and, of course, from the Minister for Labour, that people's plight — the uncertainty that comes with working life, the uncertainty about their own future — is actually identified and treated with the seriousness that it deserves, because it is through these zero-hour contracts that we create insecurity in working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u142	Mr President! I welcome this debate in the Chamber. This is an issue where there is easy confrontation, particularly with regard to employers and employees, and this confrontation is completely pointless, because, as Mr Kontula has just mentioned, I think, both are being taken care of. So you have to remember that the small entrepreneur may not have 18 hours of work to offer, and the student may not want to do so either. But the main point here is that employees' rights or any labour law should not be trampled on in Finland by concluding these zero-hour contracts. However, the problem here is that by increasing labour market rigidity, the supply of labour will be reduced. That some good compromise here must be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u143	Let us take four more replies. After that, if the Minister wishes to speak, that is all right, and then we will go to the list of speakers. — I can see that there is already Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u144	Mr President! As I said, it is a very important and, in a certain way, an historic moment when the first citizens' initiative in the field of labour law has now come to Parliament, and it is therefore good that we have a proper debate on this. In the final analysis, however, it is a matter of values, whether employees, people, are seen as just the kind of resources that can be mobilised if necessary or not. In my opinion, it is part of the Nordic model that we have certain rules of the game, and now I was also pleased with the tone with which the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, responded to this. To be precise, you did say before the elections that the law should deal with zero-hour contracts, and we hope that you will remember that. There has also been an understanding of the government parties here, but I feel that we are now trying to circumvent this issue either in terms of social security or otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u145	Madam President! I am glad that there is a common red thread here, both on the right and on the left, and the Minister also seems willing to cooperate so that we will certainly have a good debate in the Committee on Labour and hopefully a fairer working life. It is worth recalling, contrary to what has been said many times in this debate, that small, short zero-hour contracts or short-term contracts must be possible when the worker wants them, that they must be possible even when the employer has such contracts to offer, because every job in this country is necessary. We have 170,000 sole entrepreneurs in this country, and many of them have a great need to guarantee themselves even a little break a week and offer jobs for one day, eight hours, and that may be a constant need. A trade agreement has also been invoked here many times. — The time seems to be so short that I will then give it a more detailed presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u146	Mr President! In my opinion, this main problem of ours, or full-time unemployment, is so serious that I do not consider any change in the law that would make it difficult to provide any kind of gainful work and to establish such a relationship. I am well aware of the difficulties that many people who live through a zero-hour contract and have not been given full-time employment, but I do not believe that this bill, if implemented in this way, would create many full-time jobs. Rather, fewer could be created. This is where Mr Lindtman spoke, among other things, of a few Prismas with different sizes...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u149	Madam President! Perhaps I should remind you of the same thing as the representative. Mr Lindtman also pointed out that we are now considering whether we agree with this initiative or not. I do not think that we should accept these tens of thousands of people who are working against their will on a zero treaty without legal certainty and anything else. I would remind you that, for example, the citizens’ initiative ‘Will2013’ was still amended very much in the work of So it's good to discuss this now. I thank Mrs Lindström for her thoughts. But let me be more specific: do you think it is fair to have zero contracts against their will without unemployment security and the predictability of working life? Is that a fair rule of working life? And I think it would also be a good idea to talk about the risk of trying to share the risk of trying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u150	And then there's Congressman Elomaa. After that, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u151	Mr President! It is a pleasure to be involved in such a constructive debate. Minister Lindström, I know you have your feet on the ground. It was a very strong speech, and I believe that you will do all you can to do this. At this point, I would also like to give an example of a very close, close circle. There the young guy has been working for a very big company known to everyone for the past three years on a zero contract. Sometimes there is a good monthly salary — or a mediocre one, if I say so — sometimes you don’t know if you have work to do this weekend because you have work to do. This is very vague, and it is difficult to build a young man’s life when you do not know what the future holds. That there must be some way to deal with these zero contracts. Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. This is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u152	And then the Minister's reply, no more than three minutes, can speak from there. Then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u153	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for a good debate. — If I start with this concern of Mr Nurminen and Mr Marin. Mr Marin said that more effort was needed, and Mr Nurminen asked whether it was fair and then he listed these shortcomings. Of course it is not fair, and that is why I believe this citizens' initiative is here because it has been felt that it is not fair. And when I said that just now — I tried to be vigorous, but I try to be even more vigorous — In fact, Mr Tavio said here that there was no need for confrontation. No, it's not. We have to take into account both that employer and the employee side, both of them. And Mr Mykkänen, quite frankly, it must also be taken into account whether there will be more work or not and whether this will prevent employment. All of these must be taken into account now that this is being prepared and built into such an entity that not only responds to this original idea, why this has been addressed, but also does not prevent employment, they bring in such rules of play. Then we have such a law in this matter, which is fair. — — — — Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u154	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u155	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for bringing this important issue to the debate here in Parliament. As has been pointed out here, the issue of worker legislation is quite the first in its quality, and I believe that this initiative will bear fruit. In some cases, zero-hour contracts are totally unreasonable. In practice, the contract can bind the employee to be a pledge of nothing. There is no work to be done, but we must live in constant commitment to accept it if it comes. At its worst, zero - hour contracts discipline an employee who finds a new job. He cannot accept the work immediately because he is committed to the work. In addition, a zero contract is a way for some employers to circumvent obligations in a situation where work is actually continuous, even full-time. There's not much job security. Such situations cannot continue; we need to find constructive models to solve this problem. The Zero Labour Agreement and this amendment of the proposal should, of course, also be examined through the eyesights of the entrepreneur. There are differences between a micro-entrepreneur and a large enterprise. There are situations in a start-up firm when there really is no job, but sometimes there is a need for help. The law prohibiting a zero-hour contract can weaken a small entrepreneur from becoming an employer. Similarly, large companies, such as retailers, share their employees into two or more castes by entering into zero-labour contracts. The reasons for their contribution to zero labour contracts are, in my view, weak. Mr President! This initiative is not just about banning a zero-labour contract by law, as the title says. In practice, it is also a matter of prohibiting employment contracts with less than 18 hours per week, depending on the interpreter. It would only be possible for part-time work of less than 18 hours to be carried out for justified reasons by the worker. Not only are weekly hours significant, daily hours also matter. Few employees want to travel to the workplace, for example, to make a few hours of emergency help and then return home. One example: a contract of employment can be unfair for summer workers, for example. It is not unusual for the ice cream seller to be ordered home on the morning of the rainy day and, in the event of the day, the work will continue. It should also be borne in mind that there are situations where, without the possibility of working part-time, there would be no job at all. If such a law were to enter into force as it was presented, it could undermine the provision of part-time work. In that sense, it is important to look at the matter, as the Minister said, from the point of view of correcting clear, flagrant mishaps and reforming the rules of the game. However, part-time work is an important opportunity in today's working life for many workers and employers alike. The adoption of the initiative as such could cut labour supply and employment, which is why we should find some intermediate ground. When companies are not obliged to do unnecessary hours of work, it must be remembered that it is possible for them to pay a higher wage if they wish to do so. It should also be noted that the situations of the employer differ. The same thing that is reasonable to demand from corporate giants is not reasonable to demand from a small company. I fully understand the micro-entrepreneur, for whom hiring an employee is the greatest effort and responsibility. The change in the law must therefore not undermine the ability of micro-enterprises to succeed in their work. Mr President! After all, it is borne in mind that in Finland the interests of employees and employers are often closer to each other than they seem. We have a very good working environment and an employer's circle, much better than in many other countries. In that sense, I believe that there will be a constructive solution to this and that we will continue to develop this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u156	Madam President! Zero-hour contracts are about the way in which a country transfers entrepreneurial risk to an employee in a way that has not been the intention of the legislator at any point in time. What makes this country particularly glaring is that it typically exploits workers who are already disadvantaged in the labour market. Since zero-hour contracts have never been the intention of the legislator and cannot be found in our current legislation, they have many undesirable knock-on effects which employers do not take on their own tabs and which employers are unlikely to wish for. These include the possibility of unemployment benefit, the possibility of loan or credit card, but also the possibility of love if the family reunification projects now envisaged by the government are implemented and the future acquisition of a spouse in Finland requires a full-time employment relationship that is valid for an indefinite period. I studied the work ten years before I came to this house and since then have been in constant contact with the issues of working life. From this time on, I do not recall a single case, a situation in which an employer would not have a reasonable alternative to a zero-hour contract from the employer’s point of view. Even if the zero-hour contracts were to disappear from this country altogether, we will still have fixed-term contracts, works contracts, we will have part-time work, we will have temporary work, we will have very different types of subcontracting, and that is why I claim that these fears and threats, which have been put forward to hinder employment and increase labour market rigidities, are simply not true and not based on a very solid knowledge of working life. It is true that this bill is not perfect. I myself assume that the lack of processing by a small entrepreneur or private employer is due to the fact that the source of this source comes from unions where the size of the job is quite large. As a result, the initiative does not in any way reflect on situations where the need for labour is regular but remains for less than 18 hours. Such situations include, for example, a nightclub open only one or two days a week or, for example, a store located in a shopping centre that the sole entrepreneur wants to work only five days a week, but the shopping centre also requires that the store be opened on the sixth day. These are the questions that we need to consider in committee, and I am sure we will. I think it is important to remember that even in these situations it is not a question of the need for zero-hour contracts. In these situations, it is a question of taking a little less hours than the 18 hours which are now presented as the main rule for the minimum number of working hours per week. The citizens' initiative on zero-hour contracts is certainly a worthy initiative. It's gonna take a little filed-up, but we're gonna get a good improvement on our rules of working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u157	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for a good and constructive debate. I think zero-labour agreements are the worst form of work of our time. A zero contract refers to an employment contract in force for an indefinite or longer period, in which hours are defined as starting from zero, e.g. from 0 to 38 hours per week. In this case, the employer decides how much hours it actually provides. From an employee’s point of view, it can take weeks without an invitation to work, without hours, without pay, without a pension. A person may be strictly bound to a contract of employment and may not work for others, but he or she will not receive unemployment benefit either. The only help in coping with everyday life is the income support of the municipal social services. Zero workers are the most vulnerable in working life. There are about 83,000 of them in Finland and they deserve better. In the light of the statistics, they are mainly young people under the age of 30, and especially women. Zero contracts are typically found in trade, social and health services, accommodation and catering services, transport and storage sectors. Most people working on a zero-job contract would like more hours. A young woman told me that she had been working part-time for years in a large media house and had constantly wanted to have more work to make her live on those merits, but all too often the sharing of extra work was based on favoring different people on a slightly variable basis and the employer could drop the hours to zero, which meant chaos for this young woman to pay her rent and bills. It is difficult or almost impossible for a zero hour worker to obtain a loan or credit card from a bank. Life planning is difficult with small incomes. The setting up of a family and childcare is a major problem for many people, because hours at work are uncertain. Each of us needs the predictability of our lives. No one’s life must be nothing more than being alerted, waiting for the phone to ring and the request to come to work. Mr President! Those who have studied the generations of working life have estimated that the key experience of the Y generation, which was born between 80 and 90, may be loneliness. Community support structures have disappeared and, in particular, the place of work and the working community of zero-employees working on temporary agency work is constantly changing. The man who works in the jungle of different jobs and superiors is more alone. The ability of a zero hour worker to influence workplace matters is also weak. Generation Y is the first generation to come to work in such a situation. They are easily placed on the margins of working life and experience outsiders. Although work among young people does not have the same strong link to identity as previous generations, young people also feel that getting a job is a prerequisite for culturally acceptable life, and employment is an achievement towards adulthood and independence. The wage level of young generations is also lower than that of older generations when they are in the same phase of life. The reduction in the wage level of young people has mainly taken place in the private sector. This development is not good for the tax revenues of the Finnish state or for the future of the Nordic welfare state. If we do not intervene quickly, we will be doing a great disservice in the long run to young, hungry and ambitious generations. They want to reform jobs, organisations and their operating culture, but they are stuck in uncertain zero contract life and short-term and part-time work for years. Gradually, young people lose faith in the rules and consistency of working life. Working life in unremunerated young adults continues to lose the courage, vision and power of reform that is indispensable for the renewal of Finnish working life. Finnish young generations now need special positive treatment from the Parliament. It is excellent that Mr Lindström has just said that he is prepared to promote this good citizens' initiative. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to say that every Finnish has a constitutional right to work. This requires public authorities to pursue full employment. Parliament must actively act on behalf of all underemployed and unemployed people. Unfortunately, our legislation does not yet know the concept of a zero agreement or anything that refers to zero agreements. It is precisely because the law does not specifically provide for what can be agreed on working time that bad practices have arisen in the workplace. Zero contracts are used to some extent for the sole purpose of circumventing employment protection. This isn't right. Dismissal is circumvented by the fact that the duty schedule of a zero hour worker does not simply include shifts. Any reason is enough, even if the wrong word or the fact that the employee has become pregnant. Labour law is also circumvented in such a way that the working schedules are not completed in advance, leaving a zero-hour worker without sick pay. An employee who has not been employed for hours may lose his job, even though the hours and salary have been zero per month, and thus be left without unemployment benefit. Parliament urgently needs to intervene in this kind of trickery. There is a need for a law on the conditions for flexibility in the labour force. The risk must be shared more fairly and employment security guaranteed, regardless of the way in which work is done. It also seems obvious that young workers need more information about health and safety authorities and the possibilities for redressing infringements. Young people are not familiar with legal remedies, or the threshold for using them is too high. It is obvious that the identification of discriminatory structures needs to be improved and intervention activated. Young people's knowledge of their rights and their ability to defend them must be supported, despite the fact that, in a society such as Finland, it must be possible to assume that legal, political and administrative institutions monitor and promote the implementation of fundamental rights also for young people and women.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u158	Mr President! When the majority of Finnish employees work in full-time employment relationships that are valid for the time being, it is easy to forget the groups of employees whose daily lives and their daily lives differ significantly from this. There is a constant call for more flexibility — it was heard in this Chamber, for example, today in the debate — but let us forget the flexibility that the Finnish working life is already full of. There is temporary work, self-employment, chained temporary work, reluctant part-time work, and then there are zero-hour contracts. Zero-hour contracts are a particularly problematic way of implementing labour market flexibility, and I believe that the citizens' initiative sets out worthwhile ways of remedying the situation. In practice, zero-hour contracts allow employers to circumvent existing labour law. The issue of zero-hour contracts is therefore a question of the rules of the labour market and the quality of working life. It is a question of whether we really want to allow practices which, in particular, leave young workers completely deprived of employment security and adequate income. A situation in which the minimum number of hours per week has not been defined leaves the worker in a very weak position in the event of a problem. If you suffer from a lot of illness, if you have a disagreement with the boss or if you try to deal with a problem at the workplace, your employer may react by counting your hours to zero. When there are no hours and no livelihoods, you will have to resign, and then the Te-keskus can order a three-month interval for this. If your weekly working hours have been less than 18 hours a week, there will also be no entitlement to earnings-related unemployment benefit. In addition to this, the income is constantly uncertain, which means that the employee has difficulty planning his own life and his own expenses. Mr President! Of course, there are also many good examples of jobs where both the employee and the employer have been satisfied with the arrangement made through the Zero Hours Agreement. That is why the initiative has included the possibility of continuing to deviate downwards from the minimum working hours of 18 weeks when this is done at the employee's request and for a reason, such as studying. However, the central principle of Finnish labour market legislation has always been the protection of the weaker party, and therefore rules have been established to prevent, among other things, arbitrary dismissal. Zero-hour contracts are currently creating a bypass for these rules of the game. The majority of employees with a zero-hour contract are under 30 years of age. It is also noteworthy that more than half of them report their main activity as gainful employment. When, according to Statistics Finland, the usual working hours of all those working on a zero-hour contract are 23 hours per week on average, this also means that the monthly earnings of this group of employees will be very low. Mr President! The ban on zero-hour contracts is not about removing labour market flexibility, but about correcting the wrongs and problems that no one can deny. The consequences of these shortcomings are mainly borne by workers under the age of 30, whose labour market position is already weak. Finally, as a representative of the Y generation, I would also like to point out that I am extremely pleased that Mr Lindström, the Minister for Labour, very clearly, has shown that he understands the shortcomings that are currently associated with the zero-hour agreements, and I also expect, on the basis of these speeches, that there will be real and genuine changes to these practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u159	Madam President! We have had a very interesting debate here in the Chamber, and I too am very pleased that the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, has been sympathetic to this important citizens' initiative at hand and is prepared, in his own words, to take it forward in a good spirit and to promote this citizens' initiative banning zero agreements. Surely this is a joyous news for many listeners. According to Statistics Finland, as many as 83,000 Finns were working on a zero contract in 2014. That is a huge amount to me, and when you think that these people do not have the kind of job security that should always be available to an employed worker, these 83,000 Finns do not have it today. The majority of them are women, 57%, and 65% are under the age of 30, but there are people in each age group who work for a zero contract. Often, zero agreements are justified by the fact that they allow young people to get better into employment, but I do not understand the reason why young people should be more able to cope with job insecurity than older age groups. Finnish young people become independent and move out of the home early, and this uncertainty in working life, of which zero contracts are an illustrative example, makes it difficult for young people to become independent. Young people pay bills just as much as parents do. At its worst, the insecurity of livelihood leads to exclusion, and this, of course, has far-reaching implications for the lives of young people. We all know in this Chamber how much this social exclusion will cost. It is also claimed that zero-hour contracts are suitable for young people because many young people are full-time students. It is forgotten that students are in very different situations. Not all parents have the opportunity to pay their own children’s rent when their working hours are not enough. In addition, many students already have children. How will it help to reconcile study and working life if there is no certainty about working hours and income? Mr President! In Finland, zero-hour contracts are not just the reality of students, as more than half of those working on a zero-hour contract consider gainful employment to be their main activity. There is also a lot of reluctant part-time work in this group, because According to Statistics Finland, as many as 37 per cent of those working part-time in a zero-hour contract would like additional hours. This reflects the fact that in many families zero-hour contracts cause severe income problems and direct poverty, which means that many people will then be forced to apply for the necessary basic income in order to get their family bread and pay the bills. Many in favour of zero-hour contracts believe that better work than no work at all. Would they have the nerve to say this to a single parent of three children who wonders if next month the employer will provide enough hours to pay the rent and feed the children? Some employers want to stick to zero-hour contracts in the name of flexibility in working life. However, it is not in anyone’s interest to increase the uncertainty of working life. An employee who is constantly concerned about the adequacy of his or her livelihood is not motivated and efficient. Better flexibility in working life is achieved by securing people’s basic income. This will be helped by stable employment relationships and, for example, the development of basic income. Every Finnish citizen must have the right to a smooth daily life and an adequate income. At the moment, it is difficult and sometimes impossible to plan holidays, hobbies or child care for a zero contract and other atypical employment relationships. Indeed, working life is fragmented, and more and more people work in fixed-term and part-time employment — part of their own will but much of it reluctantly. It has to be said here that, although we employers have an obligation to provide additional work, unfortunately, this obligation to provide additional work in the workplace is rarely respected, as the law intended to safeguard this. That is what I would also like to see more attention paid to now that this bill has come to Parliament and is going on the road to consultation, so that these fair rules of play can actually be made to safeguard workers' rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u160	Madam President! It's a pleasure to see you regulars out there. You didn't show up from that perman, even though they were talking about you. This debate is very necessary and your citizens' initiative has proved very necessary. Today, this debate has also brought to light the problems of zero-hour contracts. A zero-hour contract worker is not entitled to a adjusted daily allowance if the hours are zero. He is not entitled to a earnings-related allowance if there is no working time of at least 18 hours. He is not entitled to sickness pay if the work schedules have not been drawn up. The law does not even provide for the termination or termination of employment or the right of a part-time worker to refuse to take hours worked when they do not happen to him. It is clear that the rules of working life must be made fair. We need a range of reforms, but we also need to make it possible to work when there are few hours available, even if it is a regular situation. It is worth remembering that we have a wide range of needs for work and the need for work. The basic situation is well described here: the rent must be paid, the children must be fed, and we all have to live. Nevertheless, there are also many who are perhaps less relevant to work from this point of view. We have a lot of students who want a little extra earnings, we have those at home with their children who want to do a few hours a week and have some adult peer support, and we have those pensioners who want a little extra credit for a few hours of work, and it must be possible to offer them a job when there are, especially in a situation where we have too many Finns without jobs. We have a lot of options to improve this and I am glad that this is coming to the Committee on Labour. I myself have been talking to many of you in this winter, or the initiativer, and many of you, for example, have preferred the solution in the area of trade to that basic problem. As far as trade is concerned, it has been resolved in such a way that the employee and employer conclude a framework agreement, which is therefore not a contract of employment, but includes conditions for future individual jobs. In this case, the employer is not obliged to offer a job, but the employee is not obliged to accept it either. Each job has its own fixed-term employment relationship, and every time you do it you have to have a legal basis. And if the employee does not receive these jobs, he is also entitled to unemployment allowance. This solution is not a problem-free one either, but I believe it is a clear improvement, and many of you believe it is a clear improvement in that basic problem. But we also have a lot of other options. We can, and must, think about the reform of income security in such a way that work under 18 hours is also entitled to it. We need clearer rules on the conditions for establishing employment, because it has also become clear during this winter that these zero-hour contracts are not just a problem for small companies. For example, we have a company in Finland that has over 300 employees and all employees on a zero-hour contract, although most of the working time is quite regular, full-time. It is reasonably understandable that such a game is not very fair. It must also be borne in mind that we have a huge change and change in the labour market. There are a lot of people who study, work as employees, partly as entrepreneurs, possibly even on the sidelines as family carers, and we need fairer rules for this group — and also social security, which makes it possible to earn a living in those poor periods when there is no work for one reason or another. We Greens are prepared to reflect on the joint insurance proposed by Akava, which would make it easier for entrepreneurship and work to be done at the same time. Basic income is also a good model for making improvements so that people can always get along. It is worth remembering that there are about 83,000 workers with zero-hour contracts, as has been said here. About 30 per cent of these people would like additional hours, or about 25,000 employees. This is only 1% of all employed persons in Finland. I am not underestimating this percentage, but this figure may reflect the reason why the zero-contractors have always left a little on the mop tables, that is, their affairs and problems are not very interesting, and it is therefore good that these problems have now been put on the table. It is also worth remembering that more than half a million Finns already work in one way or another in precarious employment relationships. This initiative will also be useful to them, and I hope that during this spring we will have fairer rules for working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u161	Mr President! This citizens' initiative has very good and worthwhile intentions. The labour market position of young people in particular needs to be improved in general. However, there is a risk that private entrepreneurs and small businesses, especially those who work on jobs, will suffer as a result of this addition to the Employment Contracts Act. If the agreements do not provide flexibility for employees, they will not be hired and the entrepreneur himself will do the work. This will also prevent the much-needed remuneration of people. Perhaps the best way to solve the problems caused by zero labour contracts would be to use existing legislation. Zero contracts should focus in particular on how long a job can be converted into a permanent employment relationship. It is unreasonable for a person to work for years in practice full-time, but the agreement allows zero work. The solution could be a model in which long-term work with established working hours could become a condition of employment that is equivalent to the contract. After that, the established working time would be binding on the employer and the employer would be obliged to offer work or at least to pay for established working hours. This could be achieved by the amendment of the Working Time Act. The application of the so-called "work model" agreed by the Trade Union of Commerce and the Trade Union of Services (PAM) would also be a possible relief to the current situation. In this model, the employer and the employee first enter into a framework agreement setting out the conditions for future individual gigs. Such a framework agreement would significantly clarify the relationship between employer and employee, especially when the employer does not offer work, but does not remove the issue of recurrent fixed-term contracts. Mr President! The purpose of this citizens' initiative is the right one, and for that I thank the authors there. At the same time, however, we must take into account the fact that many SMEs are in a tight position to employ additional labour. SMEs are our country's best hope for more employment. However, at the moment we cannot deny the fact that there are also large companies which, frankly, take advantage of the zero-contracters who work. As an example of what I was talking about in the debate about my close circle: when you have to work for years in constant uncertainty, wait for that phone call, waiting for the job to be done soon or not, it is quite impossible to plan for the future. After today's debate and Mr Lindström's speech, I firmly believe that efforts will be made to find a good and fair solution to this problem of zero agreements in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u162	Mr President! The word 'work' has two parts: 'work' and 'life'. A person must have both work and life. But these zero contracts might mess both of them up. There can be so much work that life gets confused, and on the other hand, there can be so little work that life gets confused. And neither of these things can really be predicted when you don’t know how much work is ahead. A zero contract is, in a way, an employer's promise of work. But the employer may not fulfill that promise. One major problem with zero contracts is that the employee has a greater obligation to take up work than the employer has a duty to provide work in comparison with other employment relationships. Part of the people who work on a zero-job contract is a real pre-caracy of working life. On the other hand, others work almost normally with a zero - scorer, even with a reasonable wage. But the main problem is that these contracts are not defined by law, and this makes the protection offered by the Employment Contracts Act difficult to interpret, in many cases even non-existent. Some of these problems can be overcome by good workplace-specific interaction, including sensible shift arrangements, flexibility on sides and in different ways and good work planning. But some people will need legislative changes. If we were thinking about the change that has taken place in Finnish working life, then we used to go to work, there was retirement age, and that was the way working life went. But we were first created with fixed-term contracts, and when they did not have the same security as these standards, they were used to circumvent labour law obligations. When that security was brought into temporary employment, temporary employment relationships were created, and they were sometimes used for need, sometimes just to circumvent the obligations of the Employment Contracts Act. This resulted in different self-employment obligations or forced entrepreneurships, as well as zero contracts. And what is essential is that the zero agreement does not circumvent the obligations of labour law. If we look at the examples of living life, for example, in one of Yle’s programs a person, SAK’s employee’s expert on terms of employment, told them that there have been many cases of worker working almost full - time for several months, but when he has become ill or has come into some other disagreement with the employer, the employer has no longer offered hours. On the other hand, the Trade Union for Services, for example, tells of a store-store worker who had worked on a zero-job contract for a full-time period of 2.5 years, and for the previous 30 weeks his working hours had been almost full, 37.5 hours a week, but then the worker became ill and was on sick leave for 1.5 weeks, and after that there were no more hours worked. These illustrate the examples of how to circumvent our normal labour law obligations. Moreover, responsibilities and responsibilities are not balanced and unclear. The employee’s responsibility to accept the job is therefore greater than the employer’s obligation to provide it. At worst, a zero contract can be a way of circumventing the rules on dismissal. All of a sudden, we're just running out of hours. On the other hand, it can be an eternal trial period, always measuring over and over and over again how a worker does his work. It is also used in a rather brazen way in the event of dismissal. For example, the head of the Hart-wall Lahti plant said that it was more than three years ago when someone was hired under an ordinary contract. All employees will come through an agreement if necessary, and each dismissed person was offered one after consultation. In other words, the first round of negotiations has been held in which it has been said that there is no work, there are economic and productive reasons, and then there is an agreement to invite you to work when you feel like it. In part-time work, we have an obligation to provide additional work. It is unclear to whom work is offered, in what order and whether it is offered at all when the legislation does not know the zero contract. We have a non-compete clause, which is, in fact, rather harsh legislation on the restriction of fundamental rights. There may also be non-compete clauses in zero contracts, in which case you must not work in the same sector, even if you have only a few hours of working hours. If it is thought that annual leave is determined by working time, then the zero contract may ask which working time. In fact, the determination of the annual leave is only known afterwards. On the other hand, working time is what affects, for example, the determination of sickness allowance — but what is working time in zero contracts? There are also many unclear situations in the zero agreements that create difficulties for the employer because the calculation of these benefits, which are imposed by legislation, is unclear when there is no clear working time. But perhaps the cruelest situation is when the zero-labour contract stops work and the person who has worked on the zero-labour contract decides that he will go and look for a new job and leave the old one behind. If he resigns himself — in the event of lay-off, where the work ends, the employee has the right to lay off himself without that three-month period — then in a zero-labour contract that long degree of care comes because it is considered that the employee has, as it were, resigned himself from an employment relationship, an employment relationship with zero hours. And I think that this is the most painful thing that must first be corrected. But I hope that we in the committee will be able to address these problems and correct the problems that are inherent in this issue, which is therefore unknown in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u163	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! At the very beginning, we must thank the great crowd who have worked for this citizens' initiative in the Chamber today. That's a big thank you to the Vakiduun gang. This House should now deal with the initiative with the value it deserves, and this value will not, at least, be reduced by the speeches that have been made in this Chamber today. There is a great deal of concern in common, and Mr Lindström's speeches gave hope for a better one, but what is missing is now the absence of these acts. Madam President! When talking about basic human security, welfare services and livelihoods, it is important to leave the perspective of the weaker. Basic security is a minimum guarantee to ensure that everyone has decent conditions and opportunities to build their own lives. I feel strongly that fair rules in working life are an integral part of basic human security. Through a zero-labour contract, the agreed minimum security for the worker can be overstepped and this causes a wide range of problems. Uncertain living makes it very difficult to plan and develop one’s own life. The uncertainty of working hours makes it difficult to arrange childcare. The bank does not grant a loan or credit card because of uncertain earnings. These are issues that make it unduly difficult for people who do not voluntarily work in this system. The stories of inappropriate treatment in the workplace by zero-hour contracts are very depressing to read. They are the truths of everyday life about how you can't cope with your earnings from work. They are people’s truths about constantly fearing for their own livelihood. Personally, I hope that each of us has met face to face with a person or persons who have been reluctant to work on a zero-hour contract. It will ensure the kind of discussion and the outcome of this citizens' initiative. Madam President! There has also been much talk in this Chamber of local agreement, especially during this parliamentary term. I feel that the problems associated with zero-job contracts also make it difficult to promote local reconciliation. Local agreement requires that the parties to the agreement be at least in a relatively equal position. People who work on a zero-job contract rarely have it. An employee seeking his own rights is easily labeled as a difficult worker, and hours of work fall to zero. This situation is further compounded by the fact that when a worker resigns, he or she is entitled to a qualifying period from the TE Office, even if he or she was not offered working hours. Mr President! Zero employment contracts are not part of today's working life. They are also not part of the working life of the future. In this house, we must fight across party boundaries for decent working conditions, fair working conditions and decent pay. It is up to us, if anyone, to eliminate unhealthy phenomena from our working lives. Let's start with the uncertainty associated with zero-job contracts. It is also in the interests of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u164	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank you for this good debate here in the great Chamber, if you could even say, on a common atmosphere of fair play that may not always be heard in this Chamber. At the same time, however, it has to be said that it is regrettable what ideas and ideas this citizens' initiative has received in public debate, the initiative to ban zero-hour contracts. It is understandable in itself that this confrontation can easily arise in this particular culture of click. Many of us in the Parliament were present during the last parliamentary elections in a number of electoral panels, which dealt with the matter and explicitly asked whether you were prepared to ban all zero-labour agreements. It would be easy to answer yes. No one should have to conclude a so-called zero-labour agreement without their own will. However, I would add that, at the same time, we must assess what we would deny in it. At the same time, we would also deny flexibility, opportunities for local reconciliation and freedom and responsibility, which would take into account the situation in people's lives at the workplace, such as studies or family leave, and that at the same time a person wants to work part-time but regular, even only a day a week. I hope that zero-labour agreements are possible precisely because of the employee's own will and the need for the worker. Here, in the great Chamber, we are also defining what is the role of legislation and what kind of legislation we want. I see that it is the task of the legislation to create a field of action and to lay down rules for the field of action. Legislation must be supportive, long-term, proactive and fair, regardless. We also need freedom and responsibility, and especially now that we want to promote and create opportunities for local reconciliation in the workplace, it is perhaps also strange that we should go through legislation to ban all zero-job contracts. It is the citizens' initiative itself, which is based on the inclusion in the Employment Contracts Act of a record that a contract of employment must have a regular weekly working time. At the same time, an entry on the definition of part-time work would be added. However, the citizens' initiative suggests that without a request made in writing by an employee for a legitimate reason, the minimum number of hours worked cannot be agreed for less than 12 hours a week unless the work is of a random nature. Here I see that there is exactly what was discussed in that debate: is there a job that is occasional or regular? So, if you read this initiative, there is more to it than a ban on a zero-labour contract. The sum summarum, the good thing about this initiative is that it is being discussed in a large Chamber and we are also raising examples of what our young people may encounter in the labour market in particular. We must therefore also dare to bring to the public debate the negative aspects and negative experiences even of companies and employers who continue to favour zero employment contracts, without the will of the worker in particular. Among these, I have received feedback, for example, when it comes to summer work for a couple of months. At the same time, it must also be noted that a lot of positive feedback has come from the fact that people or students, especially those on family leave, want to sign the zero-labour agreement of their own choice and determine for themselves what week they work zero hours and what week they work many ten hours. Finally, I would like to thank Minister Lindström for his contributions to the debate. It creates faith and hope that legislative work on this too, if not, will be in line with fair game rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u165	Madam Speaker! All those who were there and all the other listeners! Good contributions have been made on behalf and against, and this shows that this is not a simple matter at all. In that brief earlier debate, I heard Antti Lindtman talking about the need to really consider it important that people are a resource. On this point I quite agree, and at least here I have not noticed that there have been opposing speeches. If I think about myself being an entrepreneur for a while and I know a lot of entrepreneurs, everyone will say that this employee and his well-being is extremely important, because it is nevertheless an employer's business card and tool and it is very important for everyone that the employment relationship and work are working well and good for both. The Chairman of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, Mr Filatov, gave a good speech on the various problems that exist when matters have not been settled in the legislation. I also think it is important that at what point a person should refuse to come to work. For example, what would be the time limit if the night before was called — is it an obligation to come, is it a refusal to work? It contains a great many of these, which Mr Filatov also listed, which must be agreed upon. That's not what I'm going to say. As far as fixed-term employment and temporary work are concerned, this world has changed terribly, and that is why our labour law must also change accordingly. Of course, it is agreed in collective agreements, but labour law must also be included. I am now 47 years old, 17 years ago I graduated as a lawyer and got my first permanent job at the age of 45, which is 15 years in fixed-term employment. Of course, I had my own business along with it, but I know very well how difficult it is to plan that life, especially as a woman, a family, and perhaps that is one of the reasons why it finally happened that I did not have those children when I may not have understood in time to do and perhaps have confidence that life is carrying it. That there is one thing that is especially a problem for women: you may not dare to go ahead with that family life. But I'm happy with my life, and that's not the point. I looked here, a year ago there was this kind of personnel solution Extraajat Oy's research and various interviews with this kind of entrepreneurs.fi website. 500 people had participated in this study, and a year ago, there have been 1500 temporary workers on the Extraajat Oy lists, all of whom had a zero employment contract, and 350 of them worked in the grocery trade. According to this study, which had indeed been carried out at the time, 80% of these respondents indicated that they still want a zero agreement but certainly do not object to us clarifying those conditions. I don't believe it. I've never seen any of these questions, but I think so. And over 20 percent preferred to do that for 18 hours. I will read these about what these entrepreneurs say, who have gathered this article here. They have brought examples of these zero-labour workers both for themselves and against — there had been such a free field of comment. So it says here: "In addition to studies, it is easier to have a zero contract. On the other hand, if the shifts knew in advance, it would be easier to plan. Both sides. Personally, I am of course in favour of an hourly agreement, and its gradual number of hours should be 20 hours a week. Even that salary is not enough to support on its own. For me, this is a so-called second job, and I'm in for a zero-cooper now." Then: "It would probably be best for students if a zero-hour contract could be exchanged for an hour contract, for example, during the summer." That's a good idea. And then, "At this moment, there are so few shifts available that the better option would be an hourly contract." I am also a member of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities and I am happy to be able to deal with this there. I hope we can get some good legislation on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u166	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, the authors and authors of this citizens' initiative, who are listening there in the gallery and who have made it possible for this matter to be dealt with here in Parliament! However, as I said in that one debate, this initiative may be about values, how we see people behind work: whether they are people, or whether they are just a resource. It has often been suggested, as has been the case in this debate today, that if this citizens' initiative were adopted, if we brought about such an improvement in the contract law, it would destroy huge numbers of jobs. Well, as the chairman of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, Tarja Filatov, quite excellently pointed out in this previous debate, these zero-hour contracts have never been the will of the legislator, but have, as it were, been born within the framework of the current legislation, become a practice which should now be addressed. If and now we have seen that these zero-hour contracts have increased if not exponentially so significantly at least, and if the idea is that if there were no zero-employment contracts, we would have a significantly lower employment rate or higher unemployment, then I do not see any logic for this, because when these zero-employment contracts were not used to the extent that they were today, the employment rate was higher than today, unemployment was lower. Eli cannot directly draw a similarity mark here, at least in the light of the facts of history. Secondly, there have been many misconceptions in this debate. There are such claims that this in some way would prevent, for example, students from working with such contracts. That is not the case, and that is what has been taken into account in this citizens' initiative, the draft law. Work that is genuinely temporary would also be possible in the future. There are proposals here to deal with them, and I believe that they can be specified if necessary. Mr President! This debate does create quite a lot of expectations for the committee. We noticed that the spirit and idea of this initiative was supported by almost all the parties, but if the conclusion should be drawn from this debate, then of course I believe that those who have brought this citizens' initiative to Parliament are allowed to expect that those who have given understanding in this debate will also act in accordance with it in committee and later in this Chamber. The SDP is committed to standing behind the Vakiduun campaign and the authors of this citizens' initiative. We have already presented this in the last election programme, and we really see it in the end that this is about people, those whose rent or mortgage payments come every month, but hours may be one for the second month, zero for the second month and something else for the third. What are we doing with labour law? Ultimately, the idea behind it is that one cannot think that the laws of the jungle are in place in working life. It is up to us as legislators to ensure that there are fair rules of play, and it is up to us, even on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights, to protect the weaker party. That is why these regulations are contained in labour law. If every time these regulations were imported, the same argument had always been used that this would destroy huge numbers of jobs, and if that had been the case, then there would be no jobs in Finland. And if it is felt that the lack of regulation of the labour market at all would be the key to competitiveness and happiness, then it should be concluded that many of the poorest countries in the world without legislation would be the most competitive countries. This is not the case, on the contrary, it is precisely those countries that take care of workers' rights, respect for them, respect for the rule of law and strong labour law, which are in fact the most competitive countries in the world. And for what? Because in some respects, I believe, the minimum number of hours in the Employment Contracts Act would actually improve productivity in the service sector. Why? It would force work to be organized in a more productive, sensible way. Where does productivity come from, specifically, in the service sector? It comes from committed, skilled workers and knowledge. Finally, Mr President, I will take just one example of how, for example, the breakfast service at the hotel can improve productivity. At some point there will be a limit to how quickly a hotel or restaurant worker can collect the dishes or put them in place. But if and when he is committed, he will be allowed to do his job well, he will be able to say on the basis of experience what days go for what porridge and sausages, and thus, for example, material, food costs can actually bring great savings to this company from the point of view of the cost of its breakfast service. This is ultimately productivity in the services sector, and the idea that companies will have a committed workforce that knows when there will be work that can focus on the work and not on what they will pay the rent tomorrow is ultimately the factor by which we will achieve that much of the productivity leap that has been spoken about in this Chamber, particularly in the services sector. Mr President! This is a very valuable initiative and, on the basis of this debate, I dare to look forward to a positive reading in committee. And once again, the SDP parliamentary group supports this citizens' initiative and supports the Vakiduun campaign.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u167	Mr President! I was thinking here, when Mr Lindtman quite well drew everyone's speeches together — he wanted a positive reading of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities — that, of course, there is a positive attitude, but there must be a balance here. On the other hand, I see the fact that we cannot assume that we are completely forgetting the self-employed. Yes, we need to understand that, if a private entrepreneur needs a sick leave from time to time, he unfortunately cannot promise any more. That, however, I think it is also a factor of employment. I know a very good merchant who complained to me and said that, according to the collective agreement, when he is currently unable to hire from time to time for a few hours — for some reason he does not have this zero-labour agreement, I do not know what the idea is — then he does the evening shifts himself. That we need to coordinate. I wanted to point this out because the representative: Lindtman sometimes has the tendency to be a little more straightforward than others, and that is why I just wanted to make it clear that my positive attitude is in both directions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u168	Madam President! I'm glad the debate continues. Mr Meri said that companies and entrepreneurs must also think that we cannot just look at them from a worker's point of view. Yes, when I have read this citizens' initiative, I think that those who have taken this citizens' initiative have in fact sought an excellent balance between the two players, as it were. I think it is part of this, and no one in this Chamber has said that we should not take into account the position of an entrepreneur or a small entrepreneur or things. I think that is a good thing to say. But what I sincerely wanted to say is that I was surprised that this citizens' initiative received broad support and support, and I said that this certainly creates expectations for this committee, and I continued to hope that the expectations of the heroes of this work who have done this citizens' initiative will be met.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u169	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u170	Mr President! This citizens' initiative proposes the prohibition of zero-hour contracts by law by defining working hours of at least 18 hours per week for part-time work, unless the employee has, for justified reasons, made other submissions in writing. I fully understand the good intentions of the signatories of the initiative to equalise the existing working life and to eliminate some of the shortcomings in it. Changes are certainly needed. It is clear that current legislation and working practices are problematic with regard to zero-hour contracts. For example, as a result of the actual termination of the work, an employee cannot terminate a zero-hour contract without being assigned a qualifying period. In many cases, the employee is obliged to accept the job when invited, while the employer is not obliged to provide the job. Zero-hour contracts also give workers uncertainty about their livelihoods, and there are many other problems and abuses are not always avoided. On the other hand, from the employer’s point of view, this is a well-functioning arrangement in many places, which, among other things, reduces the risks associated with filling peaks of congestion and facilitates hiring for tasks where there is no regular weekly working time. Part-time adjustment of the labour force contributes to the profitability of business and the possibility of hiring additional labour. Part-time workers are also needed to meet temporary and short-term labour needs and replacements due to the absence of permanent workers. It should therefore be noted that if zero-hour contracts were completely banned, some of the new jobs could not be created. In particular, in the current difficult employment situation, efforts must be made to avoid tightening labour market regulation, unless there is a need to do so. If the minimum time limit for contracts of employment were to be determined by means of legislation at 18 hours a week, it would be possible for some of the hard-to-work people to be employed even less and, for example, to be replaced by students who would not be covered by the weekly limit. The use of temporary agency work companies could also increase as an alternative to direct employment. Similarly, a partial transfer of entrepreneurial risk from the employer to the employee would be possible. And, as Mr Niikko said earlier today in the debate, account must also be taken of the different possibilities for micro and large companies to offer work. Mr President! In my opinion, the means agreed by the social partners through negotiation should be used as a priority to reduce the number of zero-hour contracts. At present, legislation allows some of the problems of zero-hour contracts to be resolved on a labour-market basis. As has been said today, in the job model agreed by the Trade Union for Commerce and the Trade Union for Services, for example, the employer and the employee entered into a framework agreement defining the conditions for future jobs. Each job is always agreed separately. However, a provision could be considered in the Employment Contracts Act that a contract of employment would be terminated or dissolved without the imposition of a penalty on the employee if the employer has not offered work for a long time during a zero-employment contract in force for an indefinite period of time. This would improve the status of an employee in a situation where he or she does not actually have an employment relationship. I also believe that the worker should have the freedom to conclude an agreement with several employers. And even though I have not been a supporter of basic income in the past, the basic income experiment mentioned in the Government Programme may bring little relief in terms of zero-hour contracts to the present state of affairs. Mr President! This is a very important but relatively complex issue, which needs to be looked at from a number of different perspectives. It is therefore a very good thing that Parliament is going through the matter carefully and addressing the current shortcomings. However, legislators must ensure that new practical barriers to employment are not created if laws are to be amended. I believe that this is a shared desire of both our decision-makers and our citizens in this difficult employment situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u171	Madam President! When I did not receive the response I asked for to the concern expressed by Mrs Mere about a self-employed person who occasionally falls ill — I hope you meant an entrepreneur who wants to use a labour force that could be obtained on the free market when he became ill. This proposal certainly does not concern the possibility of making it more difficult. It is a different matter if he is regularly ill three days a week and knows it and is forced to offer work and would like to break it up so that it is drawn up for many different employees, so that this zero agreement can be used in a way that he can then selectively do it and does not commit to providing additional work for any worker when it is available. And what is important is to see how people who have collected names have seen the fact that it is precisely the question of trying to limit the injustice that is currently on the labour market as to how a zero-labour contract is being used. One thing that has not yet come up in this debate in the Chamber, when it is quite often argued that students do so much of that part-time work with these zero contracts: I would like to remind this debating room that students are receiving a social benefit that they do not lose when they work. And that is one of the basic reasons why we have the threshold of employment when a person is forced to wonder whether he will lose more work when he takes that social benefit, earnings-related daily allowance for a month, or the housing allowance goes, and these too, I hope, will have to be taken into consideration in committee. Now let's try to separate the students from this. It is perfectly possible for them to conclude these zero contracts and there is no obstacle to the possibility of receiving their own study work. As far as students are concerned, the obstacle is that we have annual income limits, which perhaps need to be looked at at at another time. In the labour market, the social partners have also agreed to ban or abolish a zero agreement, i.e. that this system will be abolished in the construction sector. Both parties have also seen that access to a professional employee is more secure for the entrepreneur when the entrepreneur offers a more permanent employment relationship. It has been agreed in the construction sector that the hours of the next financial year should be known what this person is doing, i.e. the predictability of life is known to this worker at that point, and the employer is committed to this, that it is okay to do so, and that it will then be mutual agreement, and that is what has been seen. I must say that the example of trade unions at this point is also a good signal to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities as to how this issue should also be looked at. Temporary agency workers are often, especially on the industrial side... I cannot say now whether there is constitutional inequality, but in any case there are very often production premium schemes agreed by permanent staff in an industrial plant. They're involved in incentive schemes and so on. The employer of these temporary agency workers, who, of course, work in this temporary agency, complies with those rules and is bound by its own obligations. But these reward schemes are very often built on the basis of quarter or accident or some others, they want to promote productivity, and these temporary workers are out of these arrangements because of this extraordinary working time arrangement. Of course, we have to say here that temporary agency work is currently a recruitment tool for many large companies, and it is also a means of being employed, so of course we must always remember that there are opportunities, but the reason behind this citizens' initiative is that we are seeking better employment protection for workers, and there is every justification for that. The Left Alliance is certainly behind this initiative, and I can say that, when this is, could you say, almost identical to the bill against zero labour agreements that we have taken last season with the Socialist MP Jukka Kärnä, it is easy to stand behind this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u172	Mr President! I didn't quite catch what Myllykoski told me, except what was said here in the Chamber about the concept of randomness. If you use one person and you probably don't know how much your employees are ill, it can be random or non-random. But perhaps it is now pointless for us to continue with this problem, and we are not going to solve it here. I would like to add that, but now that you have appealed to me and I do not know, I did not agree with either of you in my speech that perhaps that is not what I meant. I wanted to bring up various points of view, but in any case I wanted to remind you that 80% of these people who have been interviewed want such flexibility. It was both for and against. We need to understand that people want different things, that we cannot know better here alone than they do. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u173	I'll remind the congressman that we're here to call each other names.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u174	Madam President! As a representative The sea brought out, we need to see those entities. I believe that you in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities will also be able to define the problem of randomness. I'm sure you have the understanding of what it is and whether it's regulated by law. I hope that this proposal will take place in the form that this is a matter to be recorded in the law so that we can remove these ambiguities from the labour market. Who, then, would we pass this on to if we are unable to legislate on this in Parliament, within which this interpretation is made?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u175	Madam President! Working life today is very diverse. There are those who can work at a computer no matter where they are. There are those who go to their workplace every morning at a certain time and go home at a certain time. There are those who work three jobs at the same time, and those who do freelances one project after another, and those who cannot anticipate their own work situation for more than two weeks. It is good that the initiative to ban zero-hour contracts has been taken and that it is before Parliament. Misuse of the employer's power is a real problem which creates unreasonable situations for the employee. Paying attention to this is of paramount importance. However, I do not believe that the ban on zero-hour contracts alone is the right solution to the problem. Madam President! It is essential to be able to strengthen the position of an employee in relation to the employer. The Greens have long been driving a basic income that would guarantee everyone the same income paid by the State per month. Basic income would also enable more stable and predictable income for those working on a zero-hour contract. At the same time, it would guarantee a more secure livelihood so that no one gets left behind if the employer has no working hours. Before the basic income comes into force, the problems of existing legislation must be addressed. One thing that requires immediate correction is the relationship between zero-hour contracts and unemployment security legislation. It is unreasonable that a person who terminates a zero-hour contract should be subject to a qualifying period even if he has not been offered working hours for a long time. This weakens the position of the worker in an unsustainable way and this rule should therefore be dismantled. Madam President! Instead of a categorical ban on zero-hour contracts, we should, as a matter of urgency, correct existing structures that undermine the status of workers. In the future, working life will change dramatically as technology develops more rapidly. We need more flexibility in working life. However, this change must not take place solely on the terms of employers. In the debate around the initiative, the situations and perspectives that everyone has raised are just as real and just as real. What suits one person is not necessarily suitable for the other, and what makes one’s life easier makes the other person’s situation more difficult. The best thing is if we can find a suitable solution between here and here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u176	Madam President! Of course, there are other appointments to the Zero Hours Agreement, as is the case to be invited to work if necessary. The Zero Hours Agreement does not define the number of hours worked in any way and the same type of work can be done in several locations. However, even if the activity is done in principle under the same job title, the work tasks at each job site may vary greatly. As a general rule, rental work companies using zero-hour contracts provide services such as personal assistance, cleaning, home nursing, medical services, emergency care, security, law enforcement or sales. Almost all communication takes place through text messages for resource reasons. Text messages include brief descriptions of the tasks of each site — although in most cases too short, if it is essential to obtain the most detailed picture possible in order to guarantee the quality and safety of the work. For the employee, the good thing about zero-hour contracts is that the employee is allowed to define his or her shift very precisely. On the other hand, there may sometimes be times when an employee has to accept all the work he can get, because he still has a contract of employment and the Employment Office does not pay unemployment benefit or other support. Life planning becomes difficult if the employee does not know how many hours to work in which month. There is no occupational health care or community, nor is there any work guidance. These are services that, according to the law, all employees should have. In practice, their organisation and payment falls on the hands of the customer company or the person himself. However, the company provides a wide range of experience in the work in this field, since most employees work in several locations during the week. Some people like this variety. Madam President! The zero-hour contracts are both good and bad, as we have heard many times this evening. A lot of people like to be able to work, even if it's just a little bit. Then there is good reason to leave home to work in the morning when you know you have a little work to do. However, I would like everyone to have a permanent job — as I am sure we all do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u177	Mr President! Unfortunately, when there was no opportunity to take part in the debate earlier because of the Social Observatory, I would like to comment as if with the ideas that have been raised by this citizens' initiative in me. Firstly, I welcome the fact that a citizens' initiative has been taken on this issue. It is always a sign of the activeness of the citizens, and I feel that the initiative alone and the large number of signatures have brought this issue to the debate, perhaps also raising awareness among young workers of their rights in the wider world of work, but also of employers' understanding of the ethical obligation to treat their employees fairly. An example of this is the own-initiative communication from the Trade Union and their proposal for a solution on how to proceed with this issue. I therefore consider the debate on the citizens involved to be very necessary and, as it were, essential to raise this issue. However, I do not support this citizens' initiative because of its categorical ban. I think it is essential to point out that, for example, a growing population of pensioners, a group of well-fitted pensioners, is willing to do a little work on their own time schedules, which, fortunately, our system now allows. That is why, for example, a categorical ban on them could be more harmful to me. However, I would like to draw attention to this, and perhaps there is expertise in the Chamber on the responsibility of the public sector as an employer in relation to the award of employment contracts. I also think that in the use of rental companies or in subcontracting, in particular, the public employer should respect the strong ethics of the fact that hours of work are available if a contract of employment has been concluded. I am thinking and I hope that, when this initiative is being discussed by the Committee on Labour, it will in some way highlight the fact that at least a public employer, who, in many other respects, has not been able to do so, for example, with regard to the chaining of employment contracts for fixed-term periods, could also be responsible for subcontractors and purchasing services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u178	Mr President! I think Mr Saarikko rightly said that some of these issues will be resolved by making smart work arrangements and smart shifts, but there are also things that require legislative reform because these zero agreements are not known by law and have become a way of circumventing our employment contract legislation. I hope that you will have time to look into these details, because I would like us in Parliament to be able to fix them together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u179	Madam President! Just as Mr Filatov said earlier, the law does not recognise this procedure. It is, in a way, a shame to say that, in the past, we in the so-called employment offices had the opportunity to conclude framework agreements which were perhaps the mother of these zero contracts. We did not recognise it at the time, i.e. the unemployed could commit themselves to a solution with the company, that when he is offered a job, he will accept it, but if he does not accept the job offered, there will be no consequences. And now this zero agreement has made it clear that those responsibilities have been borne by that worker for his own unemployment benefit and, consequently, as sanctions. And this is important now to note: when legislation fails to take account of this changed development, steps must be taken back here so that the status of workers in the labour market is restored to the normal level that should be. That freedom of choice from taking up a job must be the one for the job seeker. And in that sense, it makes sense to think about this whole thing now, so that it is a worker's right, when we have such a procedure in the labour market as a zero-contractual solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u180	Mr President! First of all, I really want to thank you. This has been a really good debate on both sides. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has a big role to play, and fortunately, it has expertise, because, as Mr Filatov has pointed out, the law is, unfortunately, a little out of date. The world is changing rapidly and working life is changing rapidly, and in that sense too it is good that this debate is being conducted through this initiative. Mr Lindtman raised the word 'productivity' and just a few words about this, because Mr Lindtman talked a lot about the productivity of the service sector. Quite a bit in this Chamber, then, we are talking about the productivity of the productive industry and, therefore, about investments. I, too, have been approached by many of the Zero Pacts that, if we invest too, we can get this and this thing in order, then we would be competitive, and then I would have a permanent job too. I hope that this initiative will lead to some kind of standard law or otherwise that these discussions will end happily too, because it is a pity to see very famous industrial players who have unfortunately fallen behind in investment and, at the same time, beyond knowledge, and therefore this working life has not developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u181	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u182	Madam President! The Act concerns the amendment of Article 119 of the Electricity Market Act. Parliament decided on a new electricity market law in 2013. The purpose of the law is to improve the security of electricity supply. The intention is good, but unfortunately it has led to significant increases in transmission prices and to the indebtedness of the electricity grid companies that are actually subject to the investment obligation. When the Energy Agency amended the definition of maximum return in 2016, network companies reported price increases. A significant increase in the maximum return, almost doubling, will allow all network companies to increase transfer prices despite the real investment needs. In this economic situation, the well-meaning electricity market law has turned against itself, especially because of the surprising policy of the Energy Agency. The Parliament has imposed on the distribution system operators the obligations laid down in Article 51 of the Electricity Market Act on the quality requirements of the distribution network. Article 119 of the Act provides for a transitional period within which the distribution system operator must fulfil its obligations under Article 51 of the Act. The transitional law in force obliges distribution system operators to make significant investments within a short period of time in order to fulfil their obligations under the law. The transitional act provides the Energy Agency with the right to grant an extension of the period for making investments. The transitional period laid down by Parliament has proved to be too short. The fast-track investments to meet the quality requirements of the distribution network have led to high price increases by network operators. In order to reduce the pressure on investment, transition periods should be relaxed. In this context, the conditional regulation of the powers of the Energy Agency — as part of the dismantling of standards — should be abolished. This proposal therefore concerns Article 119 of the Electricity Market Act, the ‘Transitional provision on the security of supply of the distribution network’, and perhaps the key Article reform is as follows: "The distribution system operators with 20kV of the country’s cable network share less than 40% on At the latest by 31 December 2028, the requirements must be met by at least 75 % of all users of the distribution network, excluding leisure accommodation." This bill may sound technically difficult, but it is made by professionals and is based on statistics where companies that have long networks and which operate in forest or lake areas are actually subject to the investment pressure referred to in this law, and this, of course, results in the indebtedness of these companies. Today, when we look at the debate that is taking place in Parliament, perhaps the most widely used words here are 'competitiveness' and 'better competitiveness in Finland'. The Prime Minister has pointed out on several occasions that the government balance sheet should be put to work, i.e. a slight change in the balance sheet allocation. So let us remove money from some companies and put it in some companies where it is supposed to produce more than what the profits are, which may be what these former companies are. But we have a gap of almost EUR 10 billion in private investment, and there must be a reason why we do not invest, and that is one reason, of course, because we have a high cost structure. In particular, companies targeting exports feel that this excessive cost structure is too high a risk. If the Prime Minister has spoken about the balance sheet and in the right way, then I think that the profit and loss account should also be considered. These recent increases, which I have seen — although they have now been cancelled by Caruna today — already caused Pölkky Oy alone in the north with an additional burden of 500000 per year. Then this whole reform of the electricity market law is not a mild matter, that is, when we increase the property tax, when we increase the consumption tax, when we increase the electricity transmission charges by different-looking clauses, it causes the very problem cumulatively, which is why we do not invest in Finland, because this is simply too expensive a country and the cost structure is wrong. That is why this amendment to the law has been made that we are giving these particular electricity grid companies more time until 2038 to invest in it, so that the pressure to increase transmission charges is lower. It is good for SMEs, for agriculture, for industry and for ordinary people, but it will lead to this disproportionate decision by the Energy Agency on the maximum allowable yield being clearly re-examined because it will lose its legal base. And if this legislative amendment were to be made, which, at least in my opinion, would make sense, then of course it would have to be changed for eight years by the Energy Agency, to shorten the time — it is made up of two four-year periods — and the next time the maximum allowable yield has to be estimated, then it would have to be reduced from 5.93 % to considerably lower, but of course slightly higher than it has been today, it will be admitted. In the same sense, the Energy Agency's decision is unreasonable that if we look at today's interest rates, it is in no way in relation to the price of capital and the price of money available for investment. This is a rather big problem, and I personally believe that something must be done by the legislator and in some way the decisions of the Energy Agency must be changed. It is not enough to amortise them because it will not, however, change the actual fact that 100 % of the monopoly business generates too much profits at this level of interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u183	Madam President! I must say that Mr Eestilä has made a particularly good initiative. As such a left-wing Member of Parliament, it must be pleased that Mr Eestilä, who is a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, has taken this initiative. I remember Eestilä's expertise in this matter even then, and I understand, and he has a long experience in the management of an energy company, and although he modestly said that these figures here are made by experts, I believe that Markku is also visible in this initiative. Eestilä's own handprint and at least the world of values that's here. In his own speech, Mr Eestilä pointed out the importance of considering this situation in this country now that our competitiveness is what it is. This legislation, which is currently under way and now in force, is driving companies into unequal competitive positions in this country. It has been imprudent of Parliament that we did not take it into account at that point. Although we vigorously tried to bring it up, it did not become flesh in the legislation. There are areas where, for example, sawmill operators have to pay an excessive extra bill to survive in the free market. There will be regional inequalities, and at this point I dare say that the Energy Market Agency has not acted in accordance with the spirit of the law that was enacted by Parliament. It was precisely in the last report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that it was stated that there must be no regional disparities. And now that we see what the first decisions of Caruna are — as Mr Eestilä has pointed out here, for example, as regards the cost pressure on the sawmill side of Pölkky Oy — it is quite clear that such an entrepreneur is in an unequal position if there can be, for example, a welding company within a radius of 100 km or even 50 km of the grid, with electricity costs. In other words, even being in the same municipality but perhaps within a different system operator can change the competitive position completely. That is why Parliament and the committees to which this bill is going must be taken up and encouraged to deal with this in a manly manner so that the mistake that has been made can be rectified. In its own initiative, the Left Alliance assumes that the increase must not exceed 10 % per year and not exceed 15 % in the four-year period. We're pretty close to being a congressman. Eestilä's views on what the moderate increase is. Yes, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Parliament, in their own decision-making, started from the fact that 15 years is so long that it allows moderate increases — it was now seen that this did not happen. Could you say that it is a good thing that we have a Competition and Consumer Authority, which, perhaps with the collective actions of its customers, was able to have discussions with Caruna, who now took part in these changes? But as stated in this bill, there are also distribution system operators in this country who are not concerned with these investments to the extent assumed, and they were nevertheless given this kind of open proxy to make money at the expense of the customer, the entrepreneur, the consumer. It is unreasonable that this should have been the case when we had a law that was also amended — if I remember correctly whether it was first to 24 hours, 32 hours, and now it is, whatever it is, that is, this time value was also obtained. But in this context it is necessary to say that the diversity of legislation could be developed in this context too, so that, when we have those forested areas, some alternatives would be created for the distribution system operator other than the construction of the land cable. I believe that it would be possible for forest owners to be tied to the fact that such large enough protection zones are around its electricity line and that the operator of the distribution network would bear the costs of harvesting. In other words, when the forest owner would see to it that such so-called windfalls, the power cuts on the lines caused by artillery snows are not possible, then its wood maintenance or forest to the plaan would be handled by the network operator. Then let those customers be paying for the harvesting cost that would certainly be cheaper in a long run than taking land cable to a long distance in the wilderness. We should take a new look at how to diversify this whole thing to our safety about how quickly to get the electricity on. What is important is that the damage of EUR 6 billion will no longer be caused, because it was a hard place for business and, of course, for people, for consumers too, when we spent days without electricity, there was a massive loss of property. But I am particularly pleased that this kind of bill is here in the reading, and we hope for this impetus and hope that the government could see that now is the place for consideration. And while this has yet to come out of the government representative's pen, it should not be a terrible pain to go along with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u184	Mr President! As Mrs Myllykoski said: when there is cause, praise must be given to the government, when there is cause, praise must be given to the government party, and when there is cause, praise must be given to the representative of the government party. There is now room for this, which is thanks to Mr Eestilä for his good work. This winter has taught us Finns in many ways that electricity does not come from plugs. We faced the whole of the challenges in terms of access to electricity as a loophole, and now, in recent weeks and a week ago, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we actually heard for two days what has happened in recent times and the reasons for these price increases. In addition to the Electricity Market Act, this is about consumer protection, it is about corporate governance, but also about the tax system. We are talking about a very broad social entity. What's reasonable? This is where the Electricity Market Act starts. What's reasonable? How does that count? How is that defined? Now we have seen that there are many ways to calculate it and ownership, the owner, matters. One might even say that the natural monopoly became quite unnatural. Of course, venture capitalists in the background maximise returns. It's their job. It's their will. We now have a good example of this. But we do have other kinds of companies. We have, among other things, urban-owned companies, municipal-owned companies, where the increases have been more moderate. The owner, the board, the company's management ultimately aligns how it is done. I would like to highlight this so-called self-regulation: how the company, the company, regulates itself. This is what we have seen internationally. Among other things, we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy discussed how we are going to do things in England, how we are going to monitor these investments there. In fact, that's where they have to be approved by the government. So there's a variety of models in the world. We have heard here that price increases have had a number of effects, not only on consumers but also on businesses. Pölkky Oy, from Kuusamo, announced that for them this is indeed an increase of up to half a million dollars. There's a message from the salad farmers from Ostrobothnia that if we go at these prices, they'll leave the company. These must, of course, be taken seriously. Of course, it will also come to the other side that we are talking about a total investment of 8.5 billion, an investment of 8.5 billion — when in Finland, for example, Äänekoski's investment amounts to 1.1 to 1.2 billion — i.e. a really big issue for the Finnish economy. What, then, should be done? As I said, everything is based on what is reasonable: what is reasonable to the consumer, what is reasonable to the entrepreneur. After all, we have consumer protection, the consumer protection law, the consumer protection law, and then the entrepreneur has his own regulations. I believe and hope that Finland will also learn from this case in Caruna. Unfortunately, we have had cases in recent history that we have not learned from these. I now hope that both the government and the opposition will remember this in ten years' time, what happened to us in the winter of 2016 that this will not happen again. This, of course, is also a challenge for corporate governance now that we are waiting for Prime Minister Sipilä to tell us how he is now directing corporate governance, what kind of active ownership policy the state is pursuing. In this way, of course, I would like to encourage the government to make a real, smart ownership policy, to sell right, to buy right, to invest in the future. That's what we have a chance at.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u185	Madam President! This bill is very important and timely. The price increases in the electricity transmission company Caruna have given rise to a particularly large number of opinions among us. I guess the 2013 Electricity Market Act isn't quite as smart as it was supposed to be. For example, Caruna has minimised her taxes in Finland. The company has paid its earnings in Finland abroad in the form of interest rates on an intra-group loan. The Government Programme mentions a tax base consolidation project, from which the government can apply for a backrest for the company to block a tax loophole, and this should also be done. Of course, the indignation caused by Caruna’s tax-free passenger behaviour has been overshadowed by Fortum’s having to visit its customers’ pockets to invest in improving the weather security of the network required by the Electricity Market Act if it had not sold its electricity transmission business. Consumer authorities have been activated to investigate whether the major increases in Caruna comply with consumer protection legislation. Even the possibility of a class action is being discussed. The severe blackouts caused by the storms of summer 2010 and Christmas 2011 led to the inclusion of security of supply requirements in the Electricity Market Act. Even then, the electricity companies said that the final bill would go to the consumers, but no one knew that electricity transmission companies would have the nerve to almost double the transfer price with a one-off rush. Madam President! As I said at the outset, this bill is important and timely, and I hope that it will go to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u186	Mr President! Mr Eestilä's bill addresses a topical issue. This month, citizens have been talking about the heavy increases in electricity transmission prices, the fairness of which can rightly be asked. The sharp increases in electricity grid companies holding monopoly have been possible since the Energy Agency increased the permitted return on capital invested in transmission companies to 6% at the turn of the year. The activities of the supervisory authorities are also, as a general rule, a very late stage of ex post control. Although the main criticism has been directed at those who reported increases, there is no doubt that the legislators and supervisory bodies also have cause for development. It is therefore a very good thing that the government has announced that it will address the problems identified by means of legislation. On the basis of today's information, progress has been made: at least Caruna has publicly announced the periodicisation of the increases. Representative Eestilä proposes to amend the Electricity Market Act to extend the time limit for investments required to meet the quality requirements of the distribution network. Even if this bill would not remove all the faults associated with transfer pricing, it would nevertheless be a step towards a more efficient electricity market. That is why the bill must be supported. Mr President! In addition to moderate transfer pricing, Parliament should also pay attention to the high share of electricity tax in the electricity bill. It must be borne in mind that only the share of electric energy can be competitive. At current rather low energy prices, only about one third, or even less, of the electricity bill received by the consumer is the price of electricity. When the consumer’s influence on the entire electricity bill is small in percentage, it weakens its enthusiasm for competitive tendering and is thus likely to increase the inefficiency of the electricity market in the long term. The use of renewable energy is in principle a sound starting point. However, in the past years, wind feed-in tariffs have contributed to increasing the burden on taxpayers' energy subsidies. Fortunately, according to the Government Programme, they are now being reduced. There is also a need for sufficient electricity transmission capacity between Sweden and Finland. The cold climate and long distances in Finland must be ensured that our competitiveness or living standards do not suffer from the high price of energy. It is also very important from the point of view of preparedness for crisis situations that access to electricity and energy is also ensured under exceptional circumstances. Mr President! Energy and fuel taxes are multiples in Finland compared to both the minima required by EU legislation and many of our comparator countries. By lowering the level of energy and fuel taxation, basic needs such as housing and mobility would be reasonably priced and companies would be more competitive. This would ease the economic distress of many people on low incomes, as the income for consumption would increase, while at the same time improving the operating conditions of the Finnish economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u187	Madam President! I'm sure everyone will remember when the Secretary of State promised in public that this would never happen again, that the electricity would be gone. They were especially absent from the Savo area, but not from the large cities because they had Fortum's own networks. It was unfortunate, and it was hard for people financially but also functionally. Well, then it was decided and then there was a law on the electricity market, which is very well-founded, because it is quite true that there must be a reasonable timetable, when can we promise or guarantee people that it will run. There have been examples of these big companies, but there are also a lot of small businesses when people do, for example, on the Internet from home, and that is not possible if there is no electricity for many days. And that is why this is a big issue, not to mention animal husbandry or other activities for which electricity is necessarily needed. This pressure on investment in the last period, when this law was twisted, was clear, and there has been particular concern about these long distances for companies. With regard to the question of whether it must always be dug down, this is not the case. Even now, there are many options: either dig that cable in the ground or pull that line to the side of the road, which has of course been a good option in many places, or make the larger picks so that the first trees that fall will not fall over the electric line. So the idea is to make sure that the wire stays on, and so it can be implemented in many different ways. In the course of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, this law on the electricity market was amended. We have already made changes to it at the time, and in particular to these timetables, namely when and how many per cent of the network must be secured and what will be the claims if this is not the case. And at least then I thought that I thought it was quite a reasonable period until 2028, and then there was already a separate negotiation under the current law until 2036. In other words, 2036 is the last point and we are now living in 2016, which means that in 20 years' time we will have to have the power grids in the condition that they will be delivered in 6 hours here in the urban area and 36 hours ago in the countryside and in the forested areas, so this period is quite long. Now, Eestilä's initiative to increase this time can and must be quite necessary for some, and I believe that if and when the government is introducing changes to the electricity market law, then I understood what Minister Rehn said, possibly also with regard to the monitoring of this price or the amount of return, then at least he replied here a few weeks ago in Question Time — that is a good opportunity to bring this bill forward at the same time. And it is, of course, a good thing if this is reconsidered. I have a very small sceptic point, and that is when I think about the companies that have already made this investment plan with this plan, that is to say those who have already started making those investments in relation to these years, borrowed it and put their own networks in order on time. I hope that this will not be the way in which companies will then be treated differently if, in a few years' time, others will have the opportunity to stretch the repair of their own network differently. This is hopefully a matter that can be dealt with, but this kind of question mark for me here after reading this bill remained. As far as these returns are concerned, you well remember that that increase to 6% came from the fact that we must be able to raise funds to make these investments. But the world is changing fast, and this is how it has now changed, that we know that 6% today sounds pretty much like a lot. Then it did not sound, a few years ago, in any way unreasonable. But I believe that it should also be possible to re-evaluate it, as well as this four-year follow-up period. In the past, this monitoring has been annual and may be better justified. Of course, it must be satisfied that we have active consumer protection, which has then been able to get this negotiated solution today, that such excesses were not passed for companies or individual citizens, but Caruna then halved this increase. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u188	Madam President! Mr Eestilä's bill is very good and very well-founded. In recent memory we have the famous storms of Asta, Veera and Tapani, which then got the momentum to change the electricity market law so that by 2028 there should be ready for the safe construction of electricity networks and then, in exceptional cases, by 2036. The objective of building better functioning electricity grids in Finland, safe grids that can guarantee their customers continuous access to electricity, is very good and well-founded. But the representative The Eestilä bill quite rightly captures the bull from the horns and states that, as we all know, unnecessary costs are usually created, the price is raised and, in many cases, the bad work is still being done. I hope that the good government of the country will address this issue and take action if it sees fit. In any case, Mr Estilä's arguments are good. When you look at this timetable, 2028 — it is now 12 years from now on — there are quite a few networks that are already in safe condition. For example, North Karelia Electricity in its own region of North Karelia has already taken these measures in three ways: first of all, of course, this land cabling, which has been carried out in urban areas, as in the centre of my municipality of Ilomants, it is the land cabling that has already been carried out and those air lines have disappeared, and, for example, last summer there was no power outage, and if so, it was very momentary, a few minutes at most, even though there were thunderstorms there. Then the second option, which has also been quite largely implemented, is that all the electricity lines in the sparsely populated area have already been moved along the roads, if it has been possible at all, so that during a possible storm disaster it will be repaired very quickly in a few hours and there will be no major harm. Of course, there are still forest lines, both fresh lines, recently built or repaired, that it is not worth immediately transferring them to the roads because of the waste of investment, but then a common solution has been found with the local forestry association, whereby the forest areas next to the electricity line in question are reduced jointly by a joint project involving the electricity company and the forestry association on behalf of the landowners, that the forests should be reduced, that the risk trees should be cut off, and that means that both the forest owner, the electricity company and the entrepreneur who carries out the work will benefit from this situation and that wood will be put on the market and, above all, that electricity will also be distributed to households in the sparsely populated area. For example, we must remember whether it was now, the other summer in Savo, a huge storm — storm Asta or Veera — that was such a huge storm that when I visited the storm trails with a relative, we found that there was a large farm in one of the lakes where, of course, the aggregates were spinning, that the cattle were able to run, and the economy continued to function undisturbed when electricity was obtained from the aggregate, but that destruction and destruction was absolutely complete. Couldn't even find the transformer's places where the transformer had been. The entire power line, the entire electricity distribution network had been destroyed. So nothing was fixed. We had to rebuild everything. Of course, such violent thunderstorms, which destroy the entire electricity distribution network from a small area, are exceptions, but it is important, however, that this development is carried out all the time and that there is no unnecessary cost, because yet we are dealing with the truth that we rarely have much money, or at least too much money. Finally, Madam President, as far as this electricity grid is concerned, when we move on to these weatherproof and reliable networks, it is important to remember that this availability of electricity must also be taken into account. The fact that electricity can be distributed is a very good objective, that there are as few cuts as possible, but then another issue, which is also connected with electricity, is this generation of electricity in this country. Although it is not directly related to the excellent initiative taken by Mr Eestilä, I would like to conclude, Mr President, that now, in the cold of this winter in January, we have said that we are short of nearly 4,000 megawatts of electricity power in Finland, and that is an enormous amount. So we were totally dependent on imports. I hope that here, while this excellent initiative by Mr Eestilä is being discussed and I hope that this sensible timetable for building this initiative will be taken into account — the government of the country will look into it — very much attention will be paid to the fact that Finland lives on imported electricity. And then one day, when this recession changes into a boom season, we will be in trouble when we do not have enough electricity, and when we do not have enough electricity, we will be dependent on imports, and a country dependent on imports will have to pay off money, and that is never a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u189	Madam President! Excellent speeches around and at the heart of an important issue. I had to take it, even though I thought that such a good factual debate would not be a policy, but perhaps it belongs to this Parliament for its part. In other words, although it is not part of this bill, I cannot help but be sad to say how we have made it possible for state ownership to be sold with blindfolds even more than a racehorse has been seen even further. We may have made decisive mistakes at the time of the sale to Fortum, when it was possible that this would happen. It was then sold to a national company and thought that ownership could remain on its own, but of course this was not the case. In that sense, as a left-wing ally, you can understand our reaction because we were not in the process of accepting that trade. This has been an unfortunate lesson, but to quote Mr Skinner: I hope we will learn from it. There are different solutions: I remember when we discussed the Economic Committee we were talking about aggregate stocks, some of which would then be able to supply people with electricity within these definitions. Of course, this is what Mr Paatero pointed out that some have already invested, but it must also be borne in mind that the loan taken at these rates is certainly an inexpensive solution, given that if we have added this return at the same time by increasing our own transfer price charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u190	Madam President! I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament for a good and encouraging debate. Important things have come up here and it is, of course, quite clear that no legislative initiative is in itself the last solution to the problems. It is one proposal, and then the committee and certainly the government of the country will assess the means that we are doing, as it were, to regulate the monopoly business in such a way that it is reasonable and does not carry out the so-called over-price barrier, because that is the most important purpose of this control. Just to the extent that we have to approach this issue, as it were, with a lack of enthusiasm, that we do not intend to condemn these power grid companies. When they improve the security of electricity supply in the way that each of them sees fit, of course they need funding to do so. There can't be such a law that we force the company into debt to the pin and then, as it were, limit its access to cash flow but force it to invest. It must be understood that this is not a question of reproach. There is a need for a slightly higher cash flow for these particular companies to avoid disproportionate debt. But then we must also take into account this problem, which was brought about by this excessive increase in the Energy Agency. It actually allowed their companies to raise their tariffs significantly, even though they did not actually have to invest, so that this was a little wrong. In my opinion, the Energy Agency, which used to pay attention to the ten-year government bond rate with certain risk premiums, has now changed it so that it takes 10 years back and the average and then, whichever is higher, is allowed to use one of them. It's the wrong estimate of the current interest rate world. What I actually have in mind here is: I want the export industry to remain in Finland, there are entrepreneurs and businesses in Finland and agricultural production, which is now in great difficulty, and banks are reorganising loans. It is somehow wrong that if we significantly increase their cost structure through legislation, then it will be even more certain that we will sink under the surface. This is the big competitiveness issue, this is industrial policy, this is competition policy, this is the profitability policy of Finnish agriculture, and, of course, from the point of view of the public, there is no way to take away money from them, it is needed for other consumption. We now have a problem, housing costs are rising, and that is what this electricity transmission price structure is, of course, serving in the same way. As far as these investments are concerned, there were very good speeches here, say all Members of Parliament, and Mr Paatero wondered whether this amendment of the law would now treat certain network companies unfairly. I'm not exactly an expert on that side, but I think he won't. However, these investments have often been started at the top of the list, but it must also be stated honestly that many network companies want to make ex ante investments specifically because of the rise in the current value of the network as a result of these investments and the right to charge even more transfer prices, so that they are not quite good Samaritans in this area either. That these must be made public by the Members of Parliament, what this is all about. Then neither is this state’s ownership quite altruistic, whether or not it should be said so. When Fingrid transferred to state ownership — i.e. the State that owns more than 50% there and the Finnish Security of Supply Agency — they have raised the tariff by a modest 70% in this decade. That's where Caruna's getting pale, too. But we must remember that they also have a major investment programme: now these electricity networks in Finland, the main grids, are already partly obsolete and they really need to be invested in so that we have access to electricity and the certainty that is extremely important to everyone. However, we must be aware of what is happening here, and whenever it comes to a 100 % monopoly business, it is no matter who owns it — its regulation must be precise and it must always be in the legislator's jumps that there will not be those excesses in the form of pricing, because in today's world the atmosphere of attitude is of a little quality to take what can be done. With these words, I would like to thank you all. In the end, however, it is in the interests of Finland, which we are talking about here, not incriminating someone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u191	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Eestilä for a good final summary, but of course I have to say that I understand, on the one hand, that these price increases in Fingrid have already been almost 70%, but we also made a fatal decision in that year, which means that we promised the people of Helsinki to build a new electricity network with the money of society and all of us Finns will pay for it. In that sense, there is no Vice-President, Mr Pekkar, who had a very good proposal to amend the articles of the Central Party in order to avoid that we peasants are now paying for the construction of the electricity grid in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-18-ps-10.u192	Madam President! At the end of the day, I saw it. When we reflect on the activities of tax havens here in a lot of contexts and I think that most of us parliamentarians have a negative attitude towards this kind of activity, we want companies to act in Finland in such a way that they pay a tax to Finland. Now we will have to assess this in some other context, but the law on the taxation of businesses and the right to deduct interest is still sluggish in that way, and even though the taxpayer has the right to cancel this return in the form of excessive interest rates, we will have to consider whether this is ultimately Finland's interest, if we have such a lazy legislation in that foreign capital can come here and then take this return in the form of interest rates and leave a company with a zero tax rate in Finland. This is quite common, and in my opinion it is quite tax moral and in the sense that such tax planning does not increase, even in this section of the law we have to intervene and in that way put companies on an equal footing, because I personally wrote that this kind of foreign capital gets 25 per cent advantage, i.e. it is able to pay 25 per cent more of the purchase price, and when, in fact, these trading prices are calculated very precisely from the point of view of recovering its capital, so never will a Finnish company that pays taxes to Finland. But then I went to educate myself with experts, and they said that this 25 - percent is not enough that it actually comes close to 50 percent, because it is long - term, cumulative, as if an ageless free cash flow and then it might be a turn-on. In some ways, this is also a blue-and-white issue, so we must sometimes review this legislation and be happy to do so quite soon.
