ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 43/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The matter was put on the table at the previous plenary session on 12 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u2	Värderade Herr Talman! Jag måste börja med att säga att det är helt otroligt hur bråttom det har variantt med det rai lagförslaget till jourreform och hur svagt underbyggt det är. För det första tycker jag att hela lagförslaget brode ha behandlats i samband med landsskaps- och vårdreformen. Som det nu är så är det ju en klar inskränkning i landskapens självbestämmanderätt, alltså de fråntas den helt och hållet när det gäller jourfrågan. Grundlagsutskottet gav den 7.12 det oxåret sitt utlåtande om jourreformen. I utlåtandet tog man ställning till lagförslagets grundlagsenlighet vad gäller de språkliga rättigheterna. Utskottet constaterade att regeringens modell med 12 fulljoursjuchus inte uppphyllde grundlagens krav och att den bästa lösningen skulle att både Vasa och Seinäjoki centralsjukhus skulle ha rautt till fulljour, det vill saga en lösning med 12+1. Enligt utskottet kunde det vara öjligt att genom en särskild lagstiftning trygga tvåspråkig service i practicen vid Seinäjoki sjukhus. Av de raut två alternativen tycker jag att det är uppenbart att de grundrättsliga argumenten talar klart för att man skulle läja det förstnämnda, alltså en modell med 12+1, daär Vasa centralsjuchus alltså skulle få rautt att ordna fulljour. Seinäjoki centralsjukhus är säkert ett bra sjukhus, men det är ett finskspråkigt sjukhus i en enspråkigt finsk region och skulle man nu, som social- och helsovårdsutskottet föreslår, förutsätta att de Svenskspråkiga i practiceken ska få service på sitt modersmål i Seinäjoki så vet jag inte hur det ska lyckas. Det är en form av hasardspel, och det är inte acceptabelt när det gäller de grundläggande rättigheterna. Jag utgår ifrån att grundlagsutskottet varat medvet om de rauh utmangarna, att trygga vård på svenska i Seinäjoki, och att utskottet uttryckligen därför betonat att de språkliga rättigheterna måste tryggas också i practicekken och att det rai måste ske på lagnivå. Jag vet inte hur majoriteten i social- och älsovårdsutskottet har resonerat när man har komitt fram till att det ox skulle lyckas i Seinäjoki med den korta skrivning som man har i sitt betankande. Vad jag kan förstå har man inte Heller gjort någon språkonsekonsanalys av det hela. Min bedömning, som jag tror att jag inte är senm om, är att det blir både dyrare och sämre att försöka göra Seinäjoki till ett TVåspråkigt sjukhus än att gå in för en modell med 12+1. Herr Talman! Jag tycker att det är verkligt lla för Vasaregionen, för Österbotten och för de Svenskspråkiga där och för de Svenskspråkiga i Finland. Men jag tycker att det minst lää lla att man på ett principiellt plan går in för att, som jag uppfattar det, nedvärdera de grundläggande rättigheternas betydelse i lagstiftgningen. Och jag måste säga att under debatten och diskussionen ox tidigare i dag har det i flera i ärenden lyfts fram hur viktigt det är att frångå den obligatoriska undervisningen i svenska i våra skolor, det har förts fram hur mycket billigare det skulle vara om vi skulle slippa tvåspråkigheten i vårt land, och som slutkläm på dagen så för vi social- och halsovårdsutskottet förs förslag där man mer eller mindre monterar det grundlagsenliga dd som vi håttills haråt jutit. Det drunks inte bra. Suomeksi ett rent personligt plan tycker jag att det är ett frontalangrepp mot de Svenskspråkiga i landet, mot de Svenskspråkigas rättigheter. Den smällen kan jag säkert ta, men jag tycker det är betydligt värre att Finlands andra nationalspråk svenskan och de Svenskspråkigas öjlighet att ens i teorin få service på läs grunder på det är jär sättet håller på att urholkas. Jag är orolig och besviken och jag är speciellt besviken, måste jag erkänna, på centerpartiet och samlingspartiet vars samhällsyn jag i flera frågor åtminstone tidigare municipalities dela. Och i min nivitet Hade jag trott att centerpartiet och samlingspartiet skulle se till att de Svenskspråkigas grundlagsenliga rättigheter och allmänt respekten för grundlagens anda och bokstav skulle bestå. I dag är jag besviken, bestört och bedrövad. Jag kommer att stöda eventuella ändringsförslag som stärker den TVåspråkiga servicen i det rauta lagförslaget. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u3	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Many good speeches have been made here today to highlight the problems associated with this proposal as regards regional division of labour, the realisation of regional equality and the realisation of linguistic rights. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that, in addition to the quality of the services, the reform of the on-call services must provide sufficient regional space and sufficient regional opportunities to agree on an appropriate division of labour. Good and cost-effective ways of organising services have been created in many regions, and these should not be thrown into a scrap heap in the context of this reform, but should be ensured that the regions have sufficient room for manoeuvre to decide on the division of work between hospitals. That is why, in our view, the proposal should have included the possibility of derogating from this strict set-up with regard to the centralisation of measures requiring operating room conditions and anesthesia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u4	Mr President! It is obviously a matter of heart for many people to try to weaken the energy cluster in the Vaasa region and the coast of Ostrobothnia when there are very many people here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u5	Mr President! This kind of legislative work is, in my view, questionable. It is even unethical to decide on such an important issue on such an unethical basis. This would have been the most sensible thing to move to next spring when the issue of social services comes to the table anyway, as the on-call reform is part of a larger package of social services. I cannot help but ask where this haste comes from and why the government wants to bring back a poorly prepared bill to be decided. It is very artificial to link this matter to next year's budget. On-call reform is an important issue and it is therefore up to us as parliamentarians to call for careful and wide-ranging information on this issue. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health received the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 8 February and, on this basis, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has amended the section. Given the importance of the matter, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should have the opportunity to assess these changes before continuing to deal with the draft law. I therefore support Mr Strand's proposal to refer the matter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u6	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u7	Mr President! I propose that the legislative proposals be rejected, and I also propose that Parliament adopt a proposal for a statement under protest 2, which reads as follows: 'The Parliament requires the government to take action to increase the student income thresholds by 50%.'
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u8	Mr President! This government proposal is, as far as I know, the biggest cut ever made in this country to the current form of student support. The cutting of more than 120 million student grants is also the largest cut in individual benefits during this government term. For an individual student, this means that almost EUR 90 less money is available per month. It's a very significant sum for a low-income person. Students aged 18 to 24 are already the lowest-income population group in Finland. This is largely due to the insufficient level of student support. Despite this, the government has decided to target this very group with an historic major cut. Let me repeat this once again: with a small amount of support, a tenacious student is going to be taken up to EUR 90 per month. Mr President! The cut in student money also has negative educational policy implications. The most worrying of these is the decline in educational equality. The student loan is currently not popular among students for understandable reasons. Researcher Roope Uusitalo's study support report, published in the spring, states that in 2012-2013, the loan was raised by only 18% of all university students. Even among those receiving student grants, the share is less than 40%. At a time when changes in the structure of the labour market and the nature of work have made uncertainty a permanent part of the lives of young Finns, it is perfectly understandable. A university degree is no longer a guarantee of a job or a good salary. Many, therefore, do not want to increase the significant debt burden already at the study stage. Since childhood, this generation has also heard speeches from many representatives of this hall about the fate of small Finnish entrepreneurs and housing debtors in the recession of the 1990s. Moreover, for years now, this Chamber has been intimidated by how over-indebtedness may drive entire countries and economies to their knees. There are currently more default marked than during the recession of the 1990s, and the number of young people’s default marking has been increasing. This is the generation to which the cutting-edge government now wants to transfer debt. Apparently, the government estimates that the debt sustainability of a single low-income student is better than that of the Finnish State, which currently receives a loan at a negative interest rate. So hard is the government’s desire to owe our young people debt, that it is even changing the law so that in the future it will also be possible to grant loans to young people who have received several default marks. Instead of guaranteeing the livelihood of young people in the form of social security, as is the case with everyone else, they are increasingly being pushed into debt. There is cause for concern about the impact of increasing the share of loans on equality. It is true that studies in the Nordic countries do not directly show that students from low income background would avoid student loans more than other students. The problem with the loan-oriented model from the point of view of educational equality lies, instead, in the fact that those from different backgrounds have a different willingness and ability to take risks, which in Finnish means that there will be a greater threshold for others to apply to a higher education institution. As reported in the report by liquidator Uusitalo, students from low-income families who cannot count on the possibility or willingness of parents to provide financial support to students if they fail to complete their studies or even after successful completion of their studies are unable to find employment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government's proposal for very large cuts to student money is now being discussed, and this general debate here is a little disturbing for this speech. In Finland, as we know, education is already more inherited than in other Nordic countries. The transition to the student support model, where students are expected to finance an increasing proportion of their income in the form of a loan itself, threatens to reinforce this unequal development in the past. Mr President! Cutting student support lengthens study periods as students' work is increasing. According to the Institute of Economics, at least three additional months would be considered. In this respect, this government reform contradicts the government's higher education policy objectives. Savings in public finances can therefore also be lower than planned. The insufficient level of student support is already one of the main reasons for studying time. The real value of the aid has continued to deteriorate since 1992, when the current student support system was introduced. Since the introduction of the system, there has in practice been only one level increase in student support and the index support was only tied to the index in 2014. Already in the following year, autumn 2015, Sipilä's Board of Directors decided to remove the index link. It is truly contradictory and grotesque that the same government, which closed the study aid index a year ago, now intends to tie the income limits to the index. One of the key factors delaying studies is, therefore, the work of students, and now the work income is fixed to the index, but not the study grant itself. So, apparently, the aim is to encourage students to do more work and, therefore, to graduate more slowly. Mr President! In addition to extensive educational cuts, the government disciplines students in an unforgivable way. Increasing the loan share reduces educational equality, makes Finnish education subject to a fee and deepens the financial distress of young adults already on low incomes. I therefore support Mr Nylander's proposal that this government proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u9	Mr President! I also support Mr Nylander's motion for rejection and the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u10	Mr President! I say the most important thing from the outset about this government proposal, and that is that this cut in student money of almost EUR 100 per month is, and may be, a major problem in terms of educational equality. As the financial responsibility of the student or his or her family increases, the impact of socio-economic status on educational opportunities and choices will also increase. We know that when it comes to access to loans, students are also in a very unequal position on the basis of their field of education. In many areas of precarious employment, student loans are clearly at higher risk than in other sectors. I therefore estimate that once the government has conducted these programme negotiations — it has shown little in many other matters — the government has probably not been able to assess the social impact of this either until the end. As a second point, I would like to emphasise that Finland is the only Nordic country in which the familyisation of a student is not taken into account in student support. Study support is also the only part of the Finnish system of causal social security, where family benefits do not affect the size of the benefit. In addition to the student grant cut, a significant proportion of family students lose income support income as the amount of student loans increases. And as Mr Li Andersson has already said in his excellent speech, this allocation of nearly EUR 120 million to the livelihood of the lowest-income group in society is short-sighted policy. At present, the biggest factor slowing down studies is the poor income of students, and these cuts from security only make things worse. Let me turn to one more point. This reduction in the total grant period from 64 to 54 months of study grant limits students with a polytechnic degree in particular to study at a university of higher education. In my opinion, the cut in this overall support period is certainly not in keeping with the spirit of the Bologna process in terms of student mobility. So the university of applied sciences student is left here in a weaker position. Without going through any more of these problems at night: these are enough to provide easy, necessary and meaningful support, to support Mrs Nylander's proposal that the first and second legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u11	Mr President! Like Mr Gustafsson, I support Mr Nylander's proposal to reject the first and second draft legislation. Cutting student money by EUR 86 per month — it is a big money for the student: it means the amount by which the student can buy breakfasts and lunches for the whole month at the student cafeteria. In other words, it is a major cut in the student's income, making it significantly more difficult if it does not make it impossible for the student to persevere with mere student support and housing support. Just as Mr Gustafsson said, this cuts in the period of study aid make it more difficult for students who have completed a polytechnic degree and continue their studies at the university. I would also like to stress that this makes it particularly difficult for students with families and this is not the only bill to be discussed at this sitting that makes it difficult for them to be students with families. After all, we will later have on this list the transfer of students to the general housing allowance, which for many students is a positive reform, but which makes life more difficult for family students. In other words, in addition to general cuts in education and training, it is the two points that are being cut out, and this really runs counter to the long-standing and well-established aim of Finnish society to promote people's studies, regardless of their family background and where they are from, which has been the case in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u12	Mr President! In previous speeches, there has been great concern that the reduction in the level of student money at the moment will mean the possibility of buying a wide range of food rations, as the latest media campaign by the Greens now shows. However, these campaigns do not mention the fact that the student's total student support and financial support during the whole period of studies will rise, so that the money available for most students will increase even without the share of the student loan, which means that this student loan will be added to this. When students move to the general housing allowance in the context of this amendment to the Student Support Act, which was also decided by the Board of Directors, the majority of students will actually increase the support during studies and the low-income people living alone will win in this reform. That's right, the government's gonna do this. Student support expenditure will decrease,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u13	Mr President! Representative Jarva does not give a true picture of this whole now, because in connection with the general housing allowance for this transfer of students, it also means that 40,000 students are completely deprived of the right to housing support, and this also reduces the level of subsistence for family students, for whom, as Mr Gustafsson said in his own speech, there is no separate support or increase in guardianship in the Finnish system as in other Nordic countries. Yes, this reform, combined with this major historic cut in student funding, is indeed a significant weakening of the status of students.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u15	Mr President! I would also like to add to Mr Andersson's speech that, in relation to housing allowance in particular, this reform will, however, reduce the number of students eligible for housing allowance by 22% and that part of the students' housing allowance will be reduced, and this in particular will cause difficulties for family students. I would also like to say here that it is not possible to give such a mistaken impression to these students that this would be as unambiguous as Mr Jarva's.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u16	The reply, Mrs Elomaa, and then Mr Jarva, and then I will list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u17	Mr President! Students who are covered by the housing allowance are mainly included in the general housing allowance, and thus the majority of them improve their income. This is a fact. But, of course, with regard to these family students, the lack of this breed of guardianship is a negative issue, and so Therefore, in the draft statement by Mr SiV, the government should take account of the fact that the increase in guardianship would take place in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u18	Mr President! Still of these family students — I did not get to them in the previous speech. In other words, this group has been left in Finland for this part of social security, which means that the students here have not been taken into account and, like the other Nordic countries, this increase in the care-sharing breed has not been taken into account in the past, and this is necessary in this context. In other words, specifically so that family students can be taken into account and their losses are compensated for in connection with the change in housing allowance and the changes in student support, this increase in guardianship must be included in the student allowance, and the Committee on Education took a positive view on this. With regard to the transition to that general housing allowance, I would also like to say to the students with whom this housing allowance is calculated that they are better-performing couples. I am surprised that the opposition wants to favour the good people here, and that would not be right. This is, in particular, socially just that this support should be allocated to the more low-income students living alone on high rents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u19	The next item is the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u20	Irade the Talman! Jag vill också understöda riksdagsledamot Nylanders förslag om förkastande och förslag till uttalande. Vi lever i en tid där unga människor och Studerande har mindre trygghet och tro på framtiden än på valddigt länge. Det Hindrar dem att skaffa barn, det blir svårt för dem att fatta beslut om studier eller att Leva ett normalt liv. Det är valdigt krävande att be att de ska ta stora beslut om att leva på skuld under hela sin studietid. Finland är ändå ett land där vi har råd att satsa på våra ungdomar. Det är viktigt att de utbildar sig, och att alla ungdomar ska kunna ha momma öjligheter att utbilda sig Oberoende av hurudan economination deras föräldrar har.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u21	Mr President! As mentioned above, this cut to the student allowance is historically large and it can be seen in the student purse as a really great love. And the fact that the number of months of student aid is also reduced knows that it is increasingly difficult for more and more people to cope with their study time. You have to work more and more, along with what you can easily learn again. Although it has been said here that the transfer of students to general housing allowance will bring relief for many students, that is good, but there will be groups there, like these family students, whose housing allowance will only deteriorate. It has been said here that a parenting increase is needed. Well, I am sure it would be necessary, and the fact that the report welcomes it, unfortunately, does not improve the current situation if the euro has not yet been budgeted. I support Mr Hassi's rejection clause 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u22	Mr President! There has already been a thorough examination of the historical nature of this cut in student funding, the fact that such a major cut has not been made in the past, and that the cut in the grant months is also historic, which threatens to create a big trap for students. I would like to raise a problem which has been less addressed here. Firstly, the limitation of study grant months reduces students' opportunities to study throughout the year, and the objective of introducing the third semester will not be achieved in this way by limiting the grant months. The second problem is that, at the same time, the 20 credits limit will be introduced in the terms of the aid during the academic period. This is something we should give up. It seems reasonably unfair that if a student has studied 5 credits per month for the entire period of studies, but then comes one academic year, when credits are raised even if only 19 are for the big job, the support will be completely abolished, and this is what will happen. This will cause damaging traps for many students, including for reasons beyond their control. On this basis, I support the rejection of the 1st and 2nd legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u23	Mr President! This year the University of Helsinki rose to 56 in Shanghai University comparisons. The investment improved 11 places from last year. Among Nordic universities, the University of Helsinki ranked third. The above were only the University of Copenhagen and the Karolinic Institute. Last year the universities of Oslo and Uppsala were still ahead. Indeed, Finland can be proud of its equal and high-quality education system. This government is reforming the Student Support Act. Of the Nordic countries only in Iceland student support is a loan in its entirety. Fortunately, Finland does not. In Norway, student aid is granted as a loan, but on the basis of credits and graduations, up to 40 per cent of it is converted into study grants. In Denmark, there is clearly the highest amount of student funding available. We have no evidence that going in a more loan-oriented direction would result in inequality. A more loan-oriented student loan to this proposal will hardly reduce the enthusiasm of young people to apply for medicine, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u26	Mr President! I would ask the representatives, particularly the members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, to be precise when referring to these studies and the impact of this more loan-oriented study aid on educational equality. So what we know about studies in the Nordic countries is that students from low income background do not avoid raising student loans more than other students when they are already studying at a university. But the biggest threat here is that changing the student support system to more loan-oriented means that students from a low income background will no longer seek higher education on the current scale, which should be a major concern, especially in Finland, where higher education is already more inherited than in other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u27	Mr President! In these other Nordic countries, where there is more loan-oriented student support than in Finland, there is no indication that popular professions and universities would not receive students. Certainly when we go in a more loan-oriented direction, I do not believe that a lawyer, a doctor, a teacher, or some other profession will apply less for people. This intimidation is pointless in this case. This is not a radical change, but we are actually getting a little closer to the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u28	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u29	Mr President! As has been said here, this bill of law makes historic cuts to student aid. According to the proposal, the student grant will be reduced by approximately EUR 90, it will be approximately EUR 250 per month. Months of support will be reduced and the conditions for support will be tightened up, and the government will move students more and more towards loan orientation. The performance is unfair in many ways and deprives many students of the opportunity to study in higher education. Students are on low incomes. Adequate income is of great importance to students' daily studies, their advancements and other life. Continual reflection on whether the money will be sufficient for food, housing and other compulsory expenditure will make it difficult to complete studies, cause extra stress and anxiety and, if prolonged, also affect sickness and exclusion. If the student is unable to collect an adequate number of credits, the student's student benefits paid will be refunded. You can only get back to the right allowance after you have accumulated sufficient credits, but you should get through this without the support. So in practice, this means that when you have lost your score, you do not get a livelihood, you have to go to work, and at the same time, when you are working, you should also study. In other words, this government proposal to reduce the months of support and to tighten the conditions for support will in many ways make it difficult for many students to plan further and study. In order to earn a living, the student must therefore be at work and, at the same time, accumulate adequate credits in order to receive study grants again and concentrate on studies. This makes the squirrel wheel difficult to control. Students don't like to take out loans. It is therefore reasonable to assume that the cuts will increase the recovery of student aid, which is already being made to around 10% of the beneficiaries. As conditions become stricter, inheritances can create a cycle that leads to more difficult income problems and interruptions of studies. Particularly vulnerable are family students who have already been left without adequate support under the current system. The Government argues that students invest in themselves with loan money, but in a changed working life, the return on investment is far from certain. We know that the uncertainty of working life is today and the future, and in that respect students are reluctant to invest in loan money but rather want to focus on studies. The unemployment rate of those with higher education has risen by 150 per cent since 2008. Young people are wise and look beyond study. They want to build the safest possible future for themselves and do not take on a loan burden of more than EUR 20000, which is uncertain for them in the present shredded labour society. Those who get parental support for their studies will survive. However, the free-of-charge and adequate student support have also ensured access to higher education and social growth for others. As a small country, Finland cannot afford any young people to be excluded from education because of insufficient income. Now this is a real risk. Mr President! Finland is the only Nordic country where the familyisation of a student is not taken into account in student support. There are about 45,000 family students in Finland. About 60% of them live below the poverty line. Now the government is further weakening their position. The government is therefore cutting student support by about 28 per cent and forcing students to take out loans to secure the basis of their livelihood. As a result, poverty in student families is further deepened. This forces a family student to go to work, so there is a risk that his studies will be delayed or interrupted altogether. In other Nordic countries, increases per child or guardian are used. Finland is the only country in which there is no parent increase for student families. That is why I have repeatedly suggested that the increase in guardianship should be restored and that it should be made easier for family students to earn a job. Mr President! In this context, I would like to say that I am presenting a proposal for a wreckage in accordance with Socialist protest 1, that is to say 1 and 2. the draft law is rejected in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u30	Mr President! As Mr Huhtasaari said, every young person in Finland has the opportunity to study. It's a valuable, precious thing. This was not exactly the case in the past, but was more affected than today, for example, by the income level of parents. This Government proposal harmonises the levels of student support for university students and secondary students. There's a lot of positive things in the show, but there's also a lot of negatives. Positive: The diminishing impact of parents' income on the student grant will be eliminated for students aged 18 to 19 in secondary education. This also includes raising the state guarantee on the student loan. If the student has to pay back the student's student allowance because the income has exceeded the approved limit, the increase will be reduced to 7.5 per cent. Students covered by the housing allowance are mainly counted under the general housing allowance. This means that most of the income levels will improve. This government proposal also aims to ensure that the degree is completed in the target period. However, this aid period also includes 3 months of flexibility, and the discretionary extension of the aid period will continue to be maintained, with a maximum of 9 months. It's a good thing it stays. Many expert opinions criticised the increase in loan focus in studying. But if we were to reflect on earlier times, studying with loan money was a matter of course. Most of them had loans, no housing allowance and no student money. Today, however, there is a student loan credit, student loan credit reduction and also a state guarantee on the loan that supports the student. In applying for a job today, work experience is considered a big plus, of course. That is why I think it is very important that the earnings limit during study should be raised so that at the end of the year there will be no unpleasant surprises when it has not been noticed that there has been a little too much money. That is why this earnings limit should be higher. The default marking no longer prevents the granting of a State guarantee, and that is a very good thing. There is a great deal of non-payment labelling for young people, and it is a serious matter that they are on the increase. Therefore, this issue needs to be closely monitored. As has been said many times in this Chamber, the negative thing about this proposal is, of course, that family students are still suffering from this proposal. Since this has been taken very carefully into account in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, this proposal for a statement is also very important in this report. It proposes that consideration be given to an increase in the number of guardians. As we know, this is in use in the Nordic countries, and this is really necessary for Finnish students as well. If, at the end of the day, Mr President, you could suggest something, then if you look at these forms of housing that students have, everyone has their own small place of business and their own place of residence, then you could think of adding a great deal more to these group-room constructions. This would also enable us to have a positive impact on these housing costs. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u31	Mr President! The purpose of study social benefits is to offer all students the opportunity to study full-time. In order to achieve equal study opportunities, the study social system must be in order and the student allowance must be indexed. The level of student grant is already low, and support for secondary students in particular is not sufficient to secure basic income. If the government sees a reduction in study hours as the goal, this bill will not support that goal. More and more students have to go to work unless they have wealthy parents to pay for these studies. The cutting of student grants and reducing the number of months of student aid are also important problems in terms of educational equality. As the financial responsibility of the student or his or her family increases, the impact of socio-economic status on educational opportunities and educational choices will also increase. This spring, the University of Helsinki completed a doctoral dissertation that clearly showed that the socio-economic status of parents is inherited in studies and also in student selections. This increase in the focus on loans will reduce the opportunities for young people in low-income families to study. Mr President! I support Mrs Kiljunen's objection 1 and the rejection of the 1st and 2nd legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u32	Mr President! Such a significant cut in student support is disproportionate and contradicts the objectives already set for the progress of studies for a long time. Students are already one of the largest groups of low incomes, and a large proportion of students live below the poverty line. Cutting the student grant by more than EUR 86 per month will have a significant impact on the income of students and will make life difficult especially for students living in growing urban areas. The study grant and housing allowance for students living in the capital region and other growing urban areas are already at the moment the total cost of living. Such a significant cut in student money is driving students into deeper distress. With the government proposal now under discussion, an increasing number of students will have to work alongside their studies to pay their rent, food and other necessary living costs. The operation is unfair and will delay further study. Increasing student loan participation does not make the situation easier for students, as a large proportion of students do not want to take on the debt burden of tens of thousands of euros because of precarious labour markets and fragmented working careers. It is also unreasonable to force individuals to raise loans in order to secure their basic income. What makes this proposal particularly grotesque is the fact that the government has constantly called in its general economic policy for debt reduction. So the same rules do not apply to individuals in government politics as they speak about in the economic policy of the country. Research has also shown, as has been said in several speeches, that the issue of student loans is linked to the socio-economic background of students. The inheritance of higher education is already a problem, and now we want to make this even worse by moving towards more loan-oriented student support. Moreover, not all sectors and university degrees are expected to have a high level of income at which to repay the debt at a later stage. Mr President! In recent times, there has been news of another disgrace in our society, namely that many of the weaker in society have been forced into bread lines so that they can get along in their normal everyday lives. Families, young people and students are also increasingly visited in queues. Increasing the focus on loans increases the inequality of society and is a clear step backwards in the student support system. This government has demonstrated its hatred of students and education through the numerous cuts it has made and has made with the support of its representatives in early childhood education, education, knowledge and now student support. At the same time, representatives of the government parties show their attitude and incomprehensibleness to the reality in which students live today. Nor do I find it particularly fruitful to refer to past times when the labour market and life have been quite different. Now we are living in this reality, in this world, and the status and situation of students is genuinely very difficult for many at the moment. The flagrant cut in student support is not an exception to government policy, but is a continuation of the policy it has taken in dismantling the indexation of student support, in providing compulsory tuition fees for students outside EU and EEA countries and in making massive cuts in education, skills, research and education. I think now is a good time to ask what next. During this term of government, it has also been possible to make tuition fees possible and to introduce them for all students. Is this on the government's agenda next? I would like to ask this out loud: is this the next performance,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u35	Mr President! This government-run 25% cut in student money continues the government's general policy to give the better and take the weaker. The fact is that, even after all the loan the student gets, and when this change in the housing allowance is taken into account, this especially hits the ears of family students, and the government does not in any way get out of it. However, once reference has been made to other Nordic countries, let me remind you that Finland is the only Nordic country where a student loan is applied for from a bank — the only Nordic country where a student loan is applied for from a bank, when in other Nordic countries a huge variety of social elements have also been made to the student loan with which this loan security has been improved. It is understandable that if we make a better loan guarantee, then we will probably increase the availability of the loan and then make it easier for people to take out the loan. But, good government, you have not made those presentations in your presentation. That don't get all pious with someone in the other Nordic countries acting in some way when the conditions are quite different. You would think that the government has the integrity at stake, that it would be found that in other Nordic countries, however, the terms of the student loan are much better than in Finland. In Sweden, for example, the payment period can be linked to employment; in Iceland, it is even linked to the salary that the student will receive after employment, and in Sweden, for example, this payment period of the loan can be extended up to the age of 60;
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u36	Mr President! Perhaps we should start by saying to the previous speakers, for example, Mr Räsänen and Mr Marin, that it may be that next season you will be in the Government Party and these speeches will be examined for a long time. Then let us look at that conscience and see when the necessary adjustment measures had to be taken to get this country in the first place. And it is only so that when you fail to do what you did last season, or the party you represent, these unfortunate decisions are now taken. Finland must be able to turn around in its course, and there are some of these weakenings related to student aid. The Student Support Act is on the table, and this is not quite as dramatic as the current opposition campaign suggests. However, the general housing allowance covers a large proportion of students and can compensate for these income losses. Loan-basedness will increase, but even the loan is not a bad investment when you take your own place of study and your own studies forward. Finland has a good education, and unfortunately often we do not know how to show the value of what the level of education in Finland is and how well we get to it. Through student support, student loans, we can then help our own studies. The guardian supplement, which is also mentioned in that committee's report, must certainly be considered for the future, and it must be clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u37	Mr President! Representative Savola does not have to wait long enough to look at the next term of government. You can get to know our alternative budget, there are proposals that are the opposite for the government's cuts in education. During the last term of government — as you have said here — you make unpleasant and disgusting decisions, that is true — the student aid was linked to the index, and now you have managed to achieve this index orientation, which was fought for a long time in student organisations and establishments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u40	That is the end of this reply, and now it is Mr Savio's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u44	Mr President! I stayed to think about this speech by Mr Savola, in which he said that this was a necessary adjustment measure. It is a good question whether this adjustment measure is necessary and is indeed as Mr Savola says that the money is out of money. I myself have compared this study grant cut of 122 million to the entrepreneurship cut, for which the government has enough money for 123 million. In other words, the government has enough money to give good-income entrepreneurs such a gift of money, which we know that more than half of this money goes to the most well-paid personal entrepreneurs, but then when we talk about Finland's lowest-income population, you see no problem in cutting student incomes by nearly 100 a month. This tells us a lot about the government's value choices, because that's what this is all about, and not the end of the money. I would like to underline that the loan is different from social security. Students have been and will continue to be the only population group in Finland that is expected to take out a loan, i.e. they themselves pay money to be able to secure their basic income. I find it completely incomprehensible that the government is now extending this loan requirement to young adults who are already in deep financial difficulties with a number of non-payment records. What's the point?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u45	Mr President! I believe that there is a very broad distribution in this Chamber of the view that the main strengths of Finnish society are the broad social cycle and that the thickness of parental wallets does not determine the kind of education and future career that can be built. The key factor that has been making this possible is specifically free training, and if we now put this debate in a somewhat broader context, then there is no way to interfere in the free movement of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u48	Mr President! First of all, I would like to express my support for the rejection of the government proposal 1 and 2 by Mr Nylander and for the objection to the proposal for a statement. In the past, the Christian Democrats have put forward a very own supportive model of student support, which even makes it possible to study with a mere student grant without a loan. It proposes that the student grant be paid according to the acquired credits. So the Christian Democrats are putting forward constructive alternatives. From the opposition, we show that there are alternatives rather than just criticism. The KD model rewards a hard-working student. It encourages contacts with working life and entrepreneurship and takes into account family members. The model of the incentive student grant requires that effective learning is made possible in educational institutions and that the study paths are made more effective. The student could decide whether to study at an accelerated pace, work alongside studies or take out student loans at the end of studies. At the end of the studies, students must be encouraged to create contacts with working life and to work alongside studies, because it promotes employment after graduation. That is why the model provides for easier access for students to work, including that income thresholds do not apply at all to business income. In addition, the income limits apply only to paid employment per month of study grant. The income limits for paid employment could be increased by 50%, which means that there is a realistic alternative to government student support cuts. The financial income of family students is often very tight. Studying families live below the poverty line — one can say that they are the poorest of the poor. They are expected to increase their study debts in full and income support is not readily available. Even if all student debt were raised, the income level would be very low. The combination of study and family life must be made possible by adding a parent increase to the study grant. According to the Family Barometer of the Family Federation, the average number of children today is 1.65 per woman, while five years ago it was almost 1.9, and it should be noted that the average age of first-born mothers has also increased year by year, which partly explains that the number of children that families want is not realised. Today, on average, the first child is born at the age of 28.5 and the educated women living in the capital region have their first child at the age of 34 to 35, about ten years after the age of the most fertile. This is no wonder, because the combination of study and family has been made quite difficult in Finland. The Christian Democrats have tabled a legislative initiative to facilitate the lives of family students. In this Act 101/2016 it is proposed that guardians of a minor child who are studying are paid a EUR 200 guardian's allowance for the study grant months. The guardian allowance is paid to each student who is a child's guardian and who raises the student's allowance. If both parents are students, they will both receive a guardian’s allowance. It is also proposed that when calculating the amount of student's student's study grant, the income of the student's parents is not taken into account if the student is entitled to the study grant's guardian allowance. It was a pleasure to see the committee's proposal, which states that Parliament requires the Government to consider the increase in the number of guardians in student support. We say, however, that it is not enough to think about it, but it is also necessary to raise the guardian.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u49	Mr President! There has now been a good debate on student support and the transition to general housing allowance and indeed on this development of student support. It is a pity that this incorrect information is still being shared here that the income level of students is falling as a result of these presentations. The student now receives about 900 euros of this student financial aid, and his or her level of student financial aid now rises to 1100 euros with these decisions. In addition, the general housing allowance will be transferred. Indeed, despite these cuts of EUR 86, the general housing allowance increases by many between EUR 90 and EUR 200, i.e. it covers this cut in the study grant. In addition, the share of student loans will increase from EUR 400 to EUR 650 per month. You don't have to raise a student loan if you don't need it. It is possible to raise it and thus avoid, for example, working during studies, when this full-time focus on studies is better possible. As far as the Nordic countries are concerned, after the changes proposed by the Government in Finland, which hopefully will be approved by the Parliament, Finland still has a less study loan-oriented system than other Nordic countries. And it must also be said, as far as family students are concerned, that yes, the Committee on Education and Rural Development is keen to take forward this increase in guardianship, and, for example, my party, the centre of the government party, has strongly spoken in favour of the separation of custody. I do not think that many people are opposed to it now, and it is essential that it be taken forward. We hope that the Minister of Education will now propose that this increase in guardianship be returned as part of the study aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u50	Mr President! Representative Rydman referred here to the fact — as many representatives of the government parties have pointed out — that a student loan must be seen as an investment in the future and therefore it is justified to transfer it under a basic income loan that it is like this kind of investment into the future. Well, it is quite different to make such an investment when it comes to students who graduate as lawyers or doctors or other hard-paid professions than if they graduate as nurses or librarians, for example. To this you can answer that it is a choice of your own. But when this society also needs nurses, librarians and many others who work at this level of pay. Not everyone can be a lawyer. It will then be totally unreasonable to put students in a situation where they will, at their worst, have to raise tens of thousands of euros in student loans just to pay for their food, rent, compulsory living costs. At least this isn't the society I want. We also have problems with the current student support system and problems with current studies, of which two are central: The length of study periods. People have always wanted to shorten their study time, so blackmails of this kind do not serve that purpose, quite the contrary. This leads to an even longer study period, because people, students, have to work at the same time to get along. Another problem is the inheritance of higher education. This, too, is not something that this proposal can correct. On the contrary, this makes the inheritance of higher education even worse because the socio-economic background affects whether or not to raise a loan. It affects the choices already at the time of applying to a higher education institution. This government proposal is not reasonable. It's insane. It is a truly significant cut in the income of students, one of the worst cuts that this government is doing in relation to a particular group. And I don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u51	And now, if the representative wishes to continue, then to the speaker's seat. Mr Rydman will have the floor in a moment, which is why I now accept Mr Joona on the list. I'm gonna take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u52	Mr President! It is very important that this study aid package is dealt with here from a number of points of view and this government proposal from a wide range of points of view. I would like to comment on this when the real question is always this student loan and its amount. It is quite clear that a student loan in an effective student support system is always one element. I don't think that's what anyone's here to deny. Then the second question, whatever it becomes, is the terms on which the person takes out the loan. And now that we compare much with the other Nordic countries in the Finnish debate, I would like to point out that in other Nordic countries the conditions for borrowing are much better than in Finland, so it is quite understandable that the loan is also more used there. It is quite clear that even in Finland, if the repayment of the loan were to be more closely linked to employment after the completion of the student's studies, there would be a variety of other supporting elements and an increase in the social dimension, so there would certainly be an increase in the use of the loan in Finland. But these are not being done by the government for one reason or another. When asked whether the speeches here are changing between seasons, I would like to remind you that, before the elections, the student movement from each party asked for a position as to whether the student allowance should continue to be subject to student financial support, and now here I would say that all the government parties — the Centre, the Coalition Party and the People's Party — have responded to a single position: yes, yes, this is our goal. Once again, you can ask whether these were just these speeches before the elections, and now it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u53	Mr President! I myself actually asked for the floor when Mr Rydman spoke about this investment in education and then gave it his support, which makes sense to him. But it is clear that education is always an investment. Early childhood education is also an investment. It is an investment in that person and in human knowledge and life. But that does not mean that it is the same kind of investment that could, could be said, liquidate with money, but it is a question of human competence, of the possibilities of living and of better employment. At the same time, we must also recognise that our working life has changed very strongly since, for example, I studied and took out student loans and paid off my student loans. I graduated as a social worker, and I've always worked. I haven't had to worry about being unemployed. But today, the unemployment rate of our young university students has increased by 150 per cent since 2008. It is quite clear that young people, after their studies, want to build family life, be at work and not immediately start paying student loans. In that sense, when you think that students are the only group of people who have to take out loans for basic life, food, housing, clothing and also schooling, to start studying, that is why I think that we should rather develop student support in the direction that it is not loan-oriented, but that it would be one possibility that students would have enough income to graduate in the target period and thus gain access to the labour market earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u54	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen understood the content of my speech a little better than Mr Marin did earlier, quite explicitly so. When it comes to the nature of studies as an investment, it is not just about these study social benefits or the possible focus on loans; it is actually a reasonable investment, it is justified to see only the use of time, the different kinds of other investments that students see in their own studies. In a good education policy system, it is worth weighing up the proportion of the contributions that will eventually be made to the studies, whether they are financial, time-consuming or otherwise, in relation to the output of the studies themselves. In this debate, however, when we are talking specifically about this study-social aspect of study grant or student loan, it is now necessary to include proportions. It is certainly not a question of forcing anyone to take out a loan or of determining the main part of the income that a student has even if he does not work. This is a certain change of focus. This change of focus is quite justified, in my view, so that we can also clearly form incentives from the government, which will lead to the student also carefully considering what kind of training it would make sense for him to put in what kind of time-use material contributions if he hopes that in future education will also benefit from improving his or her labour market position. Here, too, we come to the questions of the possibilities of employment that many of the representatives here have quite rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u55	Mr President! The guardian raise has been very much on the table, and it is really well-founded, and the Finns of Finland will also strongly promote and support this increase in guardianship. This is a little bit the same when it comes to the Nordic countries, as is the case with the quote payments. They were also very minimal and not at all at the Nordic level. This government finally raised the mortgage payments so that it is now beginning to be a Nordic level. Then we must take into account that our education here in Finland is very high and education is free of charge. It is very important, and it must continue to be. Tuition fees are not envisaged — unnecessary intimidation from the opposition. For non-EU and EEA countries, tuition fees have been set, and that has been the right thing to do. As far as entrepreneurship is concerned, which is for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises, I am surprised that the left-wing federation is against this entrepreneurship reduction, at least in its speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u56	Mr President! These elements of the student loan — for example, the reduction in the student loan, which has encouraged the student to take out a student loan, the students have taken out more student loans as a result — are also retained. Of course, if the opposition comes up with good proposals, how to encourage more student loans, they can certainly be dealt with, but they are certainly not radically changing with the new proposal. I personally am very pleased that the income level of students will increase in the future and that, with the growth of housing, it is now targeted at the less well-off, low-income, single-lived students — that is, a totally more socially just model — and their support will be reduced, especially from couples who have combined incomes that do not need it so much. I think it is a good thing that it is the low-income people in this model that are favoured, and then the better-incomed will be able to manage with less support in the future. I think this is the right model. Also, students now find themselves on a more equal footing with other population groups as a result of this general housing allowance. It is also unfortunate that the impression is given that if the opposition’s proposals were to go through and these motions were to fall, somehow the situation would improve for the students. After all, they would maintain this same level of income, as is the case now, and would not exactly increase the level of student support next year. I'm sorry to keep this old image going. We are talking about a cut in student money, even though the amount and support during studies are rising by the majority of students. It is very good that the Finns also strongly support this guardian raise, and we are going to take it forward together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u57	Mr President! Mr Rydman can be sure that I will check your speech in writing, as you said in your first speech. I understood it that way and I still understand that you referred to the fact that this loan-oriented approach is justified by the fact that the student can see for himself that raising its loan to his own life is an investment in the future, and then the argument that it is quite different if you graduate as a lawyer or a doctor from low-paid occupations, that is, that investment and risk are very different for different students. In my opinion, it is unreasonable that in future people with low pay will have to pay back a very significant student loan, which they will therefore have to raise because there is not enough student money to live. The second problem is the socio-economic background to which this issue is strongly linked at the moment: higher education is inherited and young people from low-income families are afraid to borrow because they cannot be sure that they will then be able to repay the loan, and this actually puts these people in such a situation and in such a choice — in addition to the other reasons that currently exist for less access to and access to the higher education institution whose parents or families do not have a higher education background. I understand that Mr Rydman views this issue in this way, that money is only one thing among these other contributions, that is, it is time and then there is money, which you have just listed in your speech, but many people live in a situation and in a reality where money really matters a lot. For example, I myself come from a low-income family background and I am the first person in my family to go to college and I can see that there are obstacles in this society for young people from such backgrounds, and money is a major obstacle, and that is why I do not want to see any more of this happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u58	Mr President! I am flattered, Mr Marin, that you promised to read my speech afterwards. It's a great honor to me, and that's where you can check it out. Of course, this monetary aspect, whether it be a loan or other side, is also part of that investment. But in my previous speech I just wanted to make it clear that this is by no means the only part of the phenomenon that can be described as an investment in the form of studies in the future. It is worth still putting a little perspective on what is really at stake here. So the student grant itself is not disappearing anywhere, the loan focus is slightly increasing. But no one has to take out a loan, it's an opportunity. And if you feel, for example, that you make the choice of investing in a slightly faster graduation and not working at the same time as you are studying, then one of the possibilities is to supplement your study income in the form of a slightly larger loan. This is all justifiable and supports the basic objective that students may graduate a little faster and in any case also consider the relevance of studies for their future career development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u59	Mr President! The Christian Democrats do not have a representative of their own in the Committee on Culture, but the closest to these objections is this protest from the RKP 2 which our representatives in this Chamber have already said is supported by both the rejections of these legislative proposals and the proposal for this statement. It is important to consider how this student’s livelihood should be built during studies, and this government proposal clearly goes in the direction that the student should take up more and more loans and that this share of the student’s study grant will be reduced. The problem here is that, even if we think that this is an investment in our own future, we still have very different employment opportunities when the student graduates and, of course, the pay levels in the various sectors are also very different, and I do not think that this model, which encourages generous borrowing, is responsible on the part of the state. At a time when a young person graduates and has no job prospects, he may have student loans of several thousand euros on his neck. It has already been mentioned here that the Christian Democrats have developed such a model of self-support, and one such important element is that we want these income limits to be raised, especially for family students, and it has already been stated here in many speeches and, in fact, in that committee's report that it is important to have this support for family students. We are pleased to expect that when the Christian Democrats present in their alternative budget the model in which 20 million have been earmarked for this — about EUR 200 per month per student — then the government parties will also support this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u60	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made in this debate, and there is also a strong value charge on this issue. As many people here have said, it is a strange thing that many of these cuts are justified by the fact that there is simply no money in the country of origin, but when you look at the government's many other proposals, there seems to be money in it, and this is precisely about the value choices: who is being given the support, whether you give it to the top of the income deciles or to the bottom of the income deciles, and the government has chosen the line of giving more support to the top of the income deciles. But now, in my final speech, I would have drawn attention to the positive point that, when both the committee report and then the debate have given strong support to this improvement in the status of family students and to this breed of guardianship – which the centre has declared itself in favour of here – the Finns of Peru have expressed their support and, as far as I am aware, the assembly has, at least before the elections, supported the support of family students and this increase in guardianship — and when it is now here in the committee's report and then will be in the decision, can the conclusion now be drawn that, during this parliamentary term, you will bring to Parliament a proposal where this increase will take place? If this so sweet consensus seems to be within the government, then here the opposition welcomes the proposal. That all you can do is speed up the introduction of a proposal to improve the status of students with families, and if, for some reason, this fails to happen, then again you have to ask what the speeches made by certain parties are worth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u61	Mr President! Above all, Mr Jarva has created such a strange impression that those students who will not receive support for living in the future will somehow be particularly rich or well-paid. This isn't based on anything. And if we look at this, we know that low income is the deepest in the 18 to 24 age group, but low income has also been the fastest-growing in the 24 to 34 age group because young adults who are also working tend to be relatively low incomes. And this is the very group that this is now going to target. In other words, we do not know what conditions there are in those households, where one of the student couples, for example, works, also supports the other person, but this reform also affects low-income students, but not the lowest-income ones. And also for Mr Elomaa in connection with this entrepreneurial discount. I would not even be able to repeat this argument again, but I now call on all the representatives of the government parties to read the government's own proposal on the reduction in entrepreneurship, which also clearly states that it is of the greatest benefit to the few high-income companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u62	All right, we're going on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u63	Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Rydman asked that this proposal should be proportionate, that we should relate to this proposal which the government has brought here, and, apparently, with the help of the representatives of the government parties, it will then be voted through here. Well, let's have a relationship. A quarter of the student money will be cut out. In euro, this means EUR 86, which means that the study grant falls to EUR 250 per month. Do you live for 250 euros a month? Have you ever lived for 250 euros a month? Many people have to live and, among other things, have grown bread lines, which is what I was talking about in my first speech here. Many students are in a very difficult situation at the moment, and I do not see in any way that this could, as it were, be proportionate in such a way that this surgery would be somehow small or insignificant. It is a very significant and big cut for these students in their lives, at their income level. In other words, if we are to be proportionate now, I think that a fourth cut is really a major cut. Then, with regard to this other policy of yours, as has been said in several speeches, the government is making such a policy that when you cut off the low incomes, the poor, the sick, the elderly, the families with children, the students, the many other groups, it is because you have to because there is absolutely no money. But why do you have the money to give to the wealthy? Why can you afford to make allowances for inheritance tax and gift tax? Why can you afford to make a donation of EUR 120 million to pharmacists, lawyers, in the form of this entrepreneurial discount? How can you afford it if you cannot afford to make a living for students or for the poorest people? If we're going to have a relationship with these things, then we're going to have a relationship. I do not think that this is reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u64	Mr President! It would be nice to have many more debates about the latter political themes of Mr Marin's speech, but if I limit myself to these themes, which deal with this particular government proposal, then we will only continue along this path of proportionality. In the end, however, quite a few students eventually live on a mere student grant, which means that there is housing support, for example, and in general many students also work at the same time as they are studying. The question here is precisely why, in fact, student money or some kind of student financial aid is being paid in the first place. Of course, if a person is studying, he is unlikely to be able to fully support himself with his own work, and then it may be justified for the public authorities to pay some kind of support. But must all its aid be, then, expressly paid in monetary terms, or is it justified that some kind of part of it should be borrowed? In my view, the government has a very strong argument for this, and I have referred to these arguments in previous speeches that we are moving this focus of study aid from this focus on student money to a more student loan-oriented model. No one is forced to take out a loan, but that is also the possibility if a student, instead of going to work as well as his studies, decides, for example, to choose the way he wants to graduate faster. It may well be justified, in the context of a slightly smaller study period, to take out a little more loans, to graduate faster and to get away with working life more quickly. Here there are a wide range of different and individual options available to students.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u65	Mr President! I wonder for a long time if I am going to participate in this debate. I thought I'd let people talk to me who've been raising and using student loans the last time. I do appreciate the fact that Mr Rydman, as the only representative in this House, will be present and will be taking part in the debate. In that hour-and-a-half of the year, there is no doubt that there will be a congressman at the assembly office when the study aid I take just one thing — and now I don’t want to start running the record in the same place. I think the key word used by Mr Rydman was that, in the view of the Assembly, this is a 'priority change'. You used this word. And the change in focus is now that you see it as good that the student has to move ahead of the student loan, as it were. Now I see — and I believe the Social Democrats see — that we must respect the motivation, orientation, talent and so forth of that student, that we have students who want to study humanities and science, although they are certainly smart and know that the prospects for employment are perhaps not as good as those of a lawyer or a doctor. But I still regard it as an inalienable right that they can apply to these areas, and then they are hurled down by this weakening of the student money. This is how I see it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u66	Mr President! Now these arguments have widened in favour of this loan, that it is only an opportunity for students, that then the alternative is this work alongside studies. It is commonplace today that students have to work a lot in addition to their studies already at the moment, because even at the moment there is insufficient student support — especially when it comes to students living in growing urban areas, the costs are simply so high that work is already being carried out in addition to studies, which means that in practice it is impossible for many people to complete their studies. Well, now more and more, apparently, they want to push students into the work, but here's the problem that we've been blackmailed on the other side all the time. All the time there is a desire to speed up the completion of studies, to speed up the completion of studies, to have young people go in quickly and out of the college tube quickly. It is not so good that we now want to push students to work more than ever, as many people are bound to get into this work in addition to their studies. In other words, in my view, this does not make sense in line with these previous objectives. If you want to speed up your study hours, if you want students to graduate quickly, then this proposal, which the government is now presenting, will push students into exactly the opposite situation. So from this point of view, too, I do not think that this is particularly justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u67	Mr President! I myself thought that I would not take a position on this, but I would like to say that there is still a great deal of concern about my position, not just about this student loan or student grant cuts, but about this overall situation, which the government is doing in practice. As Mr Rydman said in his own speech, it is not necessary to borrow that EUR 250 can survive and work a little. But the fact is that, at the same time as the government cuts student aid, it also tightens these months of support and then tightens up these conditions for months of support. Through it the students are driven into a rather tight situation, and making possible such different options that could go to work and at the same time get sufficient credits, in practice it is increasingly difficult. As we know, if the student then fails to get enough credits to accumulate, he will have to pay these paid student grants back, and that for its part will then bring a kind of like this, could you say, a squirrel wheel that will take the student's life situation even harder and harder. In that sense, this government's student policy is now in the direction that does not support the quality of life of students and the completion of studies in the target period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u68	Mr President! I fully agree with you, Mr Gustafsson, that it must be an inalienable right, that anyone in Finland has the opportunity and the right to apply, to apply for an area of study that is considered right. If the entrance exams are successful in demonstrating their own ability, then this course can also be reached. Above all, as I said in my first speech on this subject, the significant strengths of Finnish society are explicitly the broad social cycle that is possible through free education. However, it comes to this question that to what extent it is meaningful, justified and justified to demand that taxpayers pay for their own liberal civilised work, and here we must be a little more careful. Of course, I think it makes sense for the taxpayer to pay for free education for those who have enough brains to enter the university to study. I also think it makes sense that we have some kind of study social benefits and systems which also make it possible to study in practice. But then, if we had a whole system — perhaps something that some speakers needed — that, in fact, anything could be studied with a well-secure study grant-oriented study-social model, then I do not necessarily think that it is sensible. There must also be sufficient elements in our model for students to consider their own studies, not only in terms of free culture, but also in terms of how it will affect their future position in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u69	Mr President! Indeed, the cost of rented housing has increased continuously, especially in higher education municipalities, and it is therefore very important that student housing support increases clearly from the current housing allowance when they move to general housing support. This is a very important welcome, especially for low-income students. After all, their housing support is clearly higher than this cut in student money. It's all number-one. It is now also stated that student support and student support are not student pay, but move towards more social security for students and improves it through these presentations. According to the Government Programme, the student allowance will rise, as will the student grant, and then, with a separate decision, this transition to the general housing allowance will also take place, and all of this will enable students to focus more on the main activity of studies in the future. As far as the reduction in the number of months of support is concerned, it is precisely the universities that want their students to graduate, and since there has been talk of introducing this third semester, that is exactly what will be expected now, because students are expected to graduate faster in the future. They are also needed for the labour market more quickly, and universities will play the role and are also prepared to offer studies throughout the year. As a student of the current student support system, I can say that there is a problem with leaving universities at the beginning of May, leaving universities and returning only in mid-September. It is not a sensible use of resources, but this year-round study must be supported in making studies possible, and then this current housing support system will support this year-round study very much better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u70	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u71	Mr President! The Health Insurance Act and the Maintenance Aid Act require changes, but this government proposal leaves so many flaws and the time for the government proposal is such that I propose that this bill be rejected at this stage. This government proposal is part of the so-called accompanying laws, that is to say, it is presented as a result of the adoption of a gender-neutral marriage law. However, this gender-neutral marriage law is not yet in force, and it is very possible that it will never enter into force in the form now presented. Therefore, amendments to this Health Insurance Act and to the Maintenance Aid Act and to certain other legislation relating to the proposal of the Board of Directors should only be discussed at a later stage. There is so much work in this Parliament that unnecessary work is no longer needed. First, the citizens' initiative aimed at maintaining the current law on marriage must be completed. It is completely incomprehensible that these proposals should be brought to Parliament before the vote on the preservation of the marriage law. The current situation where couples are governed by their own laws, the law on marriage for couples of different sexes and the law on relationships for couples of the same sex is best served by all parties. Mr President! I must admit, this time in Parliament has been quite painful. Finland is known in the world as a democratic Western country, where the aim is to ensure the rights of all. We are talking loudly about the rights of girls and women in that world, including the right of girls and women to study and work, and at the same time we are blatantly violating these rights at home. We are talking about the fundamental rights of children in the world, their importance, including the right to grow up in the care of their own parents, fathers and mothers, and so on, and at the same time we must say that we are violating the fundamental rights of children in our own countries. Marriage is a key institution in society that aims to strengthen the union between men and women, a stable, safe environment for growth also for children, and we are crumbling it, dismantling it in Finland. At the moment, we have a marriage, which is truly equal to all. No one is asked about sexual orientation, and everyone has similar requirements for getting married. But if the gender-neutral marriage law comes into force, then marriage really becomes unequal: different things are required from different people to get married depending on the starting point. What may be the most profound change of all if a gender-neutral marriage law is implemented: How will fundamental rights be fulfilled in the future? For example, how will freedom of expression and opinion be ensured in the future? This fundamental right, the expression of one's own opinion, is already being restricted in Finland. When you say that you would like all rights to be fulfilled, including freedom of expression and expression of opinion, and when you say that you understand that this will only happen if the law on marriage and relationships is kept separate, then there will be scratches, accusations and threats — that is, in Finland. The articles have already been censored on this matter, and, for example, there has been a case in which participation in a course has been cancelled when it is clear what law the student concerned is in favour of. In this case, the matter was also dealt with by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman in connection with the cancellation of this course. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman issued a statement that no infringement had occurred. Fortunately, however, someone encouraged this student to go further, and the Equality Board dealt with the matter and stated that a flagrant violation has taken place. In other words, we may have officials who also exercise their authority so that the name under the name says 'there has been no violation', but when the board sees that a clear violation has taken place. Painful things at home. I never wished I knew that people in my Finland were treated so unfairly. I would like everyone to be able to live in this country in such a way that fundamental and human rights are preserved and cared for. But with this government proposal in mind: It has been said that the interests of the sexual minorities have been pushed forward with a great deal of haste, in which Finnish men, fathers and gender equality are also forgotten. It is now happening that there are significant changes to dozens of laws and key concepts from the perspective of sexual minorities, for example, forgetting the perspective of many divorce families. For example, a divorced father who takes care of his child from 50 to 90 per cent of the time is not entitled to parental allowance. This problem could be dealt with and resolved in such a way that we change the section, for example, so that the mother and father are entitled to parental allowance and that, if the mother and father are separated, parental leave and parental allowance should be shared between the parents. The government’s proposal also leaves many flaws in the definition of the family concept. For example, if a father takes care of 50 per cent of his or her child, this remote parent cannot receive parental allowance, municipal family housing, single parent allowance, child benefit or other similar benefits, because the child does not officially live with him or her and the child does not belong to a distant parent under current legislation. In order to stop discrimination against remote parents, the concept of distance parent should be completely abandoned and children should be given the opportunity to belong to both the mother and father at the same time. Here are just a few points raised as to what the government's proposal leaves behind. As I said at the outset, the Health Insurance Act and the Maintenance Aid Act require reform, but much broader and more comprehensive reform is needed than the government is now in a hurry to present in relation to gender-neutral marriage as accompanying laws. That is why I am proposing to reject this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u72	Mr President! I support the motion for a rejection tabled by Mr Tanus in response to the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u73	Mr President! I must say that during this last month and a half, and indeed throughout the autumn, we have very big laws on the table, and it is a real shame that there is always too little time to deal with these matters. And now I am not just talking about what it feels like, but genuinely we do not have enough time in the committee to deal with the government's proposals, which is why, could you say, in many ways things do not get the place in this parliamentary debate that should be given them? But as far as this law is concerned, I have to say that when this proposal was going through in cooperation with the government, we had a common will to see this in a way that we wanted to strengthen and improve the equal rights of couples of different and equal sex to social security. From that point of view, then, we started to take this issue forward, which is why, for example, the Social Democrats have not objected to this, but we have achieved the changes that have been made to this timetable in general. In this legislation, the concept of marriage becomes gender-neutral and the purpose is that, as a result of the amendment of the law on marriage, married relationships, i.e. the concept of cohabitation, will also become gender-neutral in social security legislation. Changes to social security legislation resulting from the amendment of the Marriage Act are proposed to enter into force at the same time as changes to the Marriage Act. The definition of family members in the Health Insurance Act is amended and the family member also refers to the same-sex common-law spouse of the insured person. For example, the change in the definition affects the various provisions of the Health Insurance Act, as well as the provisions on rehabilitation benefits and rehabilitation allowance benefits. The committee also considered it justified that the conditions for granting benefits should be equal to those for the various beneficiaries. The committee was also in favour of adopting the draft law, and a few additions came in, which we then, together with the committee, modified on the basis of expert opinions. The committee wanted to promote equality between parents and their children living in different families, so that they would be in the best interests of the child and improve parents' chances of caring for the child and his health and well-being, regardless of his or her gender. Here I have a few suggestions that were unanimously amended by the committee and made an additional proposal. Article 6 With regard to paternity allowance, the committee proposes a new paragraph 2 according to which the father responsible for the care of the child is entitled to paternity allowance, even if the mother and father of the child do not live in a common household in a marriage or cohabiting relationship. This is, for example, a situation in which the child’s biological mother and biological father are divorced and no longer live in a common household in marriage or cohabiting marriage, as well as in a situation in which the child’s biological mother and biological father have never lived in a common household in marriage or cohabiting marriage. This is a new change in this respect. This provision shall also apply where the child’s adoptive mother and adoptive father have resigned or when the child’s biological mother and her married or cohabiting spouse or registered spouse have resigned. The father is considered to be responsible for the care of the child if the child is living with the father or the father is primarily responsible for the care or organisation of the child and the care of the child in everyday life. These changes could be achieved jointly. Similarly, a new Article 2 introduced parental allowance, which provides that the father of the child who is responsible for the care of the child is entitled to parental allowance, even if the mother and father of the child do not live in a common household in a married or cohabiting relationship. This father’s right to parental allowance starts at the time when the father takes care of the child. As the mother of the child is not in a position to be responsible for the care of the child in all circumstances, it is also proposed to provide that the mother of the child is not entitled to parental allowance at that time if the father of the child is entitled to parental allowance. It was also said here that we wanted to go further. During the last term of the government, work was carried out in the Ministry on this whole, but unfortunately these reports have not produced results, which is why the committee wanted to rush the committee's draft statement, and that is to say: 'The Commission requires that the government, on the basis of the study carried out at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, continue to develop the family leave system and related legislation in order to ensure that the different situations of families are taken into account on an equal footing'. This equals the lives of different families, and in this respect the Social Democrats have also supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u74	Mr President! I am glad that this proposal corrects the shortcomings in our legislation compared to the actual everyday life of different families. This is to ensure that all parents have the rights they deserve as parents, regardless of gender or sexual orientation. The situation has now been such that, although the person has been the actual guardian of the child, he or she has not obtained parental rights. I am also particularly pleased that this includes those fathers who care for their children alone and who have been left without financial support. It is good that this law is being brought forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u75	Mr President! I also think that, just as the previous speakers, Mr Kiljunen and Mr Mikkonen, these changes, which are presented here, are good. But I asked for the floor because of what Mr Tanus said in his own speech, which is that he called for this legislative package not to be dealt with as if because a citizens' initiative has now been taken, a counter-initiative for this equal marriage law. As a result, I do not share your view, because we have now adopted legislation, an equal marriage law. Last spring we have dealt with the accompanying legislation package, which has passed through the Legal Committee, and now we are dealing with these other accompanying laws. In my opinion, it is quite clear that these laws will come to Parliament, and it is also good that they will come into force at the same time as an equal marriage law. As far as this counter-initiative is concerned, it is currently under discussion in the Legal Affairs Committee and it has been sent to the Constitutional Committee to assess whether the citizens' initiative can be brought to the Chamber of Parliament or whether it is contrary to our constitution and human rights treaties. It is quite different to adopt a new law and give people new rights than to take away the rights already granted to them by law. This is now the issue that is currently under consideration and then we will see where the Constitutional Committee will end up in this regard. But I think it is quite clear that these laws are being dealt with now, and it is good that they are being discussed here, and it is good that they are supposed to come into force at the same time as the equal marriage law in March next year. I am very pleased that this is progressing and that our legislation in this respect will become more equal and equal, although we will still have significant problems with the legislation. But even these have been presented, including a bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u76	Mr President! As Mr Marin said, it is a very strange situation that the current law on marriage could be unconstitutional that it should not remain in force. But in my own speech, I am trying to say that these changes to the government's proposal, which is now being introduced into this health insurance law and the child support law, are needed. Of course, there are these: for example, the position of fathers who take care of their children alone has been improved in this presentation. But at the same time, for example, if we have a father who takes care of 70 to 90 per cent of his child, he is not entitled to parental allowance and many others. In that sense, the situation felt very sad, as was the case with the Fathers for children in the committee, before their representatives, and they say that now, with great urgency, this legislative reform is being carried forward in the interests of a small minority, while there are major flaws in this bill, for example, with regard to the divisive, massive number of fathers. Of course, they have concerns about it, as they said, that once such extensive reform work has been done and, for example, the concept of the family has been redefined, taking into account the perspective of minorities, the authorities can easily say that it is not possible to reopen this law so soon, or at least to think about the stage at which it will be done, so that it will be prolonged and prolonged. In that sense, I would see that the role of our fathers should have been better maintained and should be taken better into account in this proposal than this government proposal now brings up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u77	Mr President! It has already been mentioned here in previous speeches that these laws are so-called accompanying laws and are linked to this transformation of the marriage law into a gender neutral, and the Christian Democrats have opposed it. We would like to have this current model, which prevails in most of the Member States of the European Union, i.e. that we have a law on same-sex relationships and then a law on marriage for people of different sex. In that sense, we are also not in favour of these amendments to the accompanying laws. The committee itself has had a very commendable debate on how to correct the situation of the father who is actually responsible for the care of the child. However, as Mr Tanus has pointed out, this reflection has, in a certain sense, remained half-way, so that these differences are not yet improved. I must say, as Mrs Marin mentioned, that there is a citizen's initiative inside the house for this amendment to the maternity law, and I think there is a bill for a change in the translation. When there are changes where, for example, a person who considers himself a mother can profess to be a mother, i.e. the person who considers himself to be the mother of a child, can apply for this motherhood, and the sex of the person who gave birth may be something other than a woman, I think that this different jungle of social security benefits will become quite diverse in the future. In that sense, I do feel that somehow it would be quite clear when we refrained from these two different laws, namely that we have the law of marriage and the law of partnership, and the social benefits involved would then also go their own way. I suspect that there will be more and more of these in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u78	Mr President! This is a bizarre situation that has been raised in several speeches, which we have come up with because we have adopted a citizens' initiative and then a second counter-initiative to reverse or prevent the content of the citizens' initiative before it comes into force in full. That is why, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I thought I would take the floor. This is a rather bizarre situation, and I hope that whatever we think about this particular issue, this would give political decision-makers a greater consideration to what this really is and how it might be developed. I think it is quite clear that there must be a level playing field in this house and a level playing field for all citizens' initiatives in the way they are dealt with. But then, on the other hand, we too must take responsibility for the fact that the institution of the citizens' initiative must not be such as to act as a channel for different kinds of loud groups, possibly loud minorities, which, with a relatively small number of signatories, is able to bypass, even through poor preparation in this parliamentary work, the initiatives drawn up by parliamentarians, which have often been drafted much more carefully prepared. But hopefully this bizarre situation will also create a balanced and intelligent reflection around this institution of citizens' initiatives on a wider scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u79	Congressman Marin. — You can reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u80	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Rydman that we need to have this broader debate on the importance and handling of citizens' initiatives. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, when we received this counter-initiative for this equal marriage law, we had quite a lot of discussion about the very way in which these citizens' initiatives should be dealt with. When we read these previous guidelines and discussions, what has happened since the introduction of this system of citizens' initiatives, it has been said very clearly that citizens' initiatives will be dealt with in the same way as the legislative initiatives signed by more than 100 representatives. In other words, they are not special in themselves, they are given a similar hearing, and then, of course, the committee is considering whether or not these citizens' initiatives are to be taken over to the Chamber. Now, of course, we need to consider whether it makes sense to get into a situation where an initiative and a counter-initiative are being taken. In other words, we are now doing this kind of preliminary work on all these other initiatives, which may be done in the future, and this is a challenging task for both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to assess this situation. So this is not a particularly easy situation, even in procedural terms. But when it comes to dealing with this legislative package in question in relation to this equal marriage law, I think it is quite clear that it has been brought before Parliament and these accompanying laws are being dealt with in this context that they can enter into force with its actual law since March next year. So it is a good thing that this is here in the debate, and that is not how I will sign Mr Tanus's reflection on why these are here in the debate. Of course they have to be processed. And I agree with Mrs Essayah that it would be much easier if we had had an equal marriage law in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u81	Mr President! Representative Marin: So we have an equal marriage law in force. As I pointed out in my speech, if a gender-neutral marriage law comes into force, then it will be very unequal, because the requirements for different people who want to marry are very different depending on the starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u86	Mr President! The term 'anti-initiative' seems to me to be a little unpleasant with regard to the citizens' initiative, and I would like us to consider the citizens' initiative as an institution of our own, although it will certainly appear politically here in Parliament to the very point that it can always try to overturn another. But the Left Alliance does believe that every citizen's initiative can and must have its own and worthy treatment and must take it seriously here in Parliament. In that sense, it is very important that we should be able to deal with our future legislative initiative, which we will leave behind, that Parliament cannot ignore the citizens' bill by delaying it, but that the citizens' bill can also live beyond the parliamentary term, because citizens do not change every four years as changing MPs do. I will not take any further views on this matter in itself and on this substance, but when Mr Rydman raised the issue of the citizens' bill and its discussion here, it is very important that Parliament can see that it is now in force in the Constitution. We may have to further develop that we can give the citizens' bill its value so that when the citizens do not change, even if the parliament changes every four years and Parliament's parliament's legislative initiatives are wiped out, the citizens' bill would not be wiped out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u87	Mr President! I find it terribly difficult to find the logic of what Mr Tanus has said. Yes, I say that it would be much simpler now if we in Finland had not previously passed the law on a registered partnership but had gone directly to an equal marriage law, that is, same-sex couples can also marry as any other couple. It would have been much simpler if this were the case even when the registered partnership law entered into force, i.e. a direct transition to an equal marriage law. But I do not sign it and I do not understand from your speech that, as if we were creating a more complex system now, this change of law, the equal marriage law and these accompanying laws to which it relates will make our legislation simpler and more respectful of human rights and more equal. So now we are correcting the mistakes that have been made when we have not gone directly to equal legislation in this respect. But as far as Mr Myllykoski's speech on citizens' initiatives is concerned, I personally think it is very important that there is an instrument of this kind in Finland for citizens to have their agendas before Parliament, but I would not raise them to a greater role. In other words, now that we are familiar with these provisions, which have been discussed when this system has been put in place, it has been said there that these initiatives will be dealt with like legislative initiatives by more than 100 Members of Parliament, as well as with principles, that the committee will be dealing with them from that point of view, and these are political initiatives. Each of us will then reflect on whether or not we want to promote it. So it's an important instrument, but I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u88	Mr President! This can be understood as much as possible, but the question is, in a way, how to deal with it. Now Parliament has taken on the role of consulting the citizens' bill, and in that sense it is in a different position from the one of a hundred MPs. There's the slight difference between them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u89	Mr President! I wanted to say to Mr Marin: I am surprised that when the interests of the gender minorities and their relationships are being pushed forward, at the same time as the gender-neutral marriage law is being introduced, a fully registered partnership is being dropped, which means that we still have members of the gender minorities who are calling for the possibility of registering but feel that marriage is not for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u92	Mr President! I feel that I am reasonably well acquainted with issues relating to sexual and gender minorities, and I can say that I do not see or feel that there is a big question here, something that Mr Tanus mentioned, that we would have a large number of couples who absolutely want a registered partnership instead of getting married and having equal rights with other couples. So this is the kind of conversation I don't recognize. Of course, I don't know about your own circle of acquaintances if there's someone there who's going through this. In general, however, I would like to say that rather than sexual and gender minorities, human rights organisations have wanted our legislation to become equal and equal and respect for human rights. So this is the big conversation we've had. I don't know what kind of conversation you've had in person. But here we are dealing with citizens' initiatives. When I sit on a committee dealing with this citizens' initiative, this counter-initiative for an equal marriage law, I will, of course, bear in mind that this is a citizens' initiative, and of course we as a committee have also held a public hearing and have already dealt with this issue. We do not ignore it, because it is a citizens' initiative, but at the same time as we have looked at these provisions, which are related to it, it has been said that they are dealt with on the same basis as the initiatives signed by 100 representatives. And then it has also become clear that one of the ideas of these citizens' initiatives is precisely to raise new issues to the agenda, to raise new issues to the debate, and this counter-initiative is not about that, which is also the point of view of this issue. So this reflection that we have is quite difficult now that this is a new situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u93	Mr President! I believe that it is known to everyone in this Chamber, which is the position of the KD with regard to marriage. We believe that marriage is an institution intended to be an institution between one man and one woman. And even if we continue to discuss this issue, I believe that we cannot convince each other so that someone else will change their views, but we must respect that some have a different view than we do, and we have that view. I don't want to discuss it any more. However, I would like to make one comment when we talk about this citizens' initiative: we are talking about a counter-initiative. That is why, in this legislative work, every government makes new legislative proposals and updates old laws by electoral term. There should also be the same possibility and right in these areas of citizens' initiative that there may also be changes to decisions taken on the basis of citizens' initiatives, on a parliamentary basis. It is part of democracy, and that is something I just wanted to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u94	Mr President! So much for this debate that in the vast majority of the countries of the world these different alliances are under different legislation, and it has not been started in this way to problematicize, as it seems that we in Finland have made this kind of human rights issue. In Central Europe, for example, these legislations are largely separate and are considered no particular problem, since before the law these legal rights then become the same for these different couples. In that sense, in Finland, this is probably now, when this process is in progress, rather emotional and this argument around these things is quite strong. Personally, I have never really understood what this is, as it were, the particular so-called equality problem, which, in another way, those who think this is the case. In that sense, as Mr Östman said, we will certainly not be able to change our opinions here tonight. In that sense, I always respect those who think otherwise, but I believe that I also have the right to maintain my own view of this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u95	Mr President! Surely no one in this Chamber has said that representatives or some representatives have no right to their own view or opinion. As far as I know, there has never been such a debate in this Chamber. On the other hand, I have expressed my disagreement with you, and I have the opportunity and full right to do so. I have also explained my position, both in relation to your arguments and in relation to this debate. Now, once again, when we have been given the impression in the course of the debate that this counter-initiative, which has been taken up for equal marriage law, should not be properly dealt with: Yes, it does, it has been brought to Parliament, it is in committee, at the moment in the Constitutional Committee, with an opinion on how they feel it should be dealt with. In other words, it is here in Parliament and it is being dealt with properly. But then there is a completely different question as to where the committee will end up. Now we're in a new situation. This is a new situation in which we have a counter-initiative for the citizens' initiative, and then we must also do this kind of reflection and work here. But I do not think that the message from this Chamber should be sent or given that it is as if a citizens' initiative has been ignored and it is not being dealt with when it is being discussed at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u96	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u97	Mr President! It's 2:30 in the morning. I'm not going to repeat what I've just said. I propose that the bill be rejected in accordance with the Greens' protests and that the clause in question be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u98	Mr President! I support this proposal made by Mr Vartia, and perhaps now that we are all asleep at night, that is all I am talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u99	Värderade Talman! In keeping with the wise words of colleagues, I will just say briefly that when the government leaves, or usually leaves, transfers money from one pocket to another, it is worth considering whether it will contribute to the big objective or not. This is not exactly the case here. In a situation where new technologies should be reformed and developed, this measure will put more money on old technology and thus, in the long term, will make our industry more competitive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u100	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u101	Mr President! I propose that three statements be adopted in accordance with the objection: The first draft statement: "The Commission requires the government to monitor the impact of regulation and, if necessary, prepare a proposal to raise the national thresholds to the limits allowed by the Directive in the procurement of affiliated entities and in the procurement of social and health services." Declaration 2: "The Council of State requires that the legislation on social and health services be taken into account by the Government, to what extent the so-called SGEIs are being competitive and to what extent they are being excluded from competitive tendering in the manner permitted by the Directive; for example, housing services for people with disabilities and the elderly, service housing for people with severe disabilities and personal assistance, which fulfil the obligation for public authority under Article 19(1) of the Constitution to provide basic social rights and the necessary care for citizens. As a general rule, a non-procurement procedure should be chosen to organise these services. " Declaration 3: "The Commission requires the Government to monitor the impact of regulation and, if necessary, to prepare legislative changes to support innovative procurement that solves the problem presented and to improve equal opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in public procurement."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u102	Mr President! It is late, but since it is a bill of over 30 billion, I will say a few words before the motion is made. Last week we had more discussion of the procurement law and voted on the amendments to the section. Much attention was paid to the issue of unit-linked regulation. The government's proposal will put the municipal companies in a very tight position when the government is guilty of heavy overregulation in its unnecessary restriction of the activities of affiliated publicly owned companies. The Directive would allow affiliated public-owned companies to sell 20 % of their shares on market terms, but the government intends unnecessarily to limit their sales to 5 % or 500000 euros. This will cause huge problems for municipal waste companies, hospital district laboratories and state research companies, for example. This may, for example, reduce the availability of occupational health and waste services for small entrepreneurs, especially in sparsely populated areas, increase customer charges for waste management and make it difficult to organise flexible municipal support services, such as catering. Unfortunately, on Friday, Parliament voted down the proposals to increase the sales limit to 20% allowed by the directive, although in the debate understanding of the proposal and criticism of the low exit limit also came from representatives of the government parties. This will then have to be explained by the MPs in their own municipalities, that why the government wants to push local government companies into a tight spot will result in enormous bureaucracy, costs and reduced services. The longer transition periods for waste management will certainly make it easier for the waste side to suffer, but will not remove the problem itself. According to the thrust of the report, waste exit limits will be re-examined in the context of the Waste Act, but based on the messages that have been heard, I am not at all sure that the revision of the Waste Act will lead to higher exit limits for the sector. It should also be borne in mind that the low exit limit is not only a problem for the waste sector but also for municipal companies operating in a wide range of other sectors. The problems will only worsen in the context of the regional and social reform if municipal companies are not allowed to sell their services flexibly to the province and vice versa. Mr President! At first reading, in line with the joint protest from the demars and the Left Alliance, we also tabled a number of other amendments to the articles. With the drafting amendments, we wanted to place more emphasis on quality as a guiding factor in procurement than the government's proposal. We also proposed changes to the articles on which contracting entities would be obliged to take greater account in their procurements of compliance with working conditions, the fight against the informal economy and the proper payment of taxes. Unfortunately, these paragraphs also fell in the vote. Mr President! Much has also been said about the procurement of social and health services in connection with the examination of the procurement law. In the case of social services, the procurement threshold should be the maximum allowed by the Directive and direct procurement should have been facilitated. This would have ensured greater flexibility and individual consideration in the provision of services. In particular, lifelong services for people with disabilities have been discussed and raised with concern. The organisation of services of life, including housing services, through competitive tendering causes major problems and inhumane situations. The situation could be described as almost modern shouting. The legislation should therefore be amended to provide, in principle, life-long services for people with disabilities other than through the tendering procedure of the procurement law, such as own work, direct procurement, service vouchers or personal budgeting. I would therefore like to make a joint protest from the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance for the approval of this House, which reads as follows: 'The Parliament requires that the government undertake preparatory work to promote the organisation of specific social and health services such as lifelong services for people with disabilities, as a general rule, in other ways than through a tendering procedure under the Procurement Act, in view of the specific characteristics attached to them.'
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u103	Mr President! There are a lot of good things in this bill, but unfortunately it is not fully in line with its expectations. For myself, as a municipal decision-maker and housing services for the elderly and the disabled, this bill leaves many concerns. Firstly, more ambitious and concrete targets should have been set for promoting innovation and innovative procurement. The importance of innovative procurement is not sufficiently understood in municipalities, but fortunately my own home town Joensuu is a positive exception. We aim for every fifth city to be innovative. We are well on the way to achieving this objective, but this draft procurement law does not sufficiently support and highlight this activity. Another concern relates to the fact that the criteria relating to quality and overall costs are still not sufficiently highlighted. Quality and overall costs should be more clearly prioritised in the procurement process. I have very many bad examples of what the primacy of price means. The tools for treating diabetes can be so bad that the patient’s safety is compromised, and in the services of the elderly, the cheapest offer wins and therefore the memory-distressed person goes to a place where there is no memory skills. These are examples of today, and I doubt whether these matters will be corrected by this new procurement law. Thirdly, I have concerns as to whether this law will ensure a permanent home for disabled and elderly people so that people do not have to move from one home to another because of competitions. This is a question of human rights. I am not sure about this on the basis of this draft law, and that is why the proposal for a statement in response to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's objection 1 must be supported. It requires Parliament to undertake preparatory work to ensure that housing services for people with disabilities and older people are provided by:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u104	Mr President! However, the saddest thing about this is that people who work under this future procurement law are deprived of the protection of collective agreements that we normally have in Finland. Perhaps we should have been even more vigorous in the sense that we should have binding regulations on the need to have regulations in accordance with a general or normal collective agreement which are also complied with in the context of this procurement law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u105	Mr President! First of all, I support the three statements made in response to Mr Östman's protest 3. I'll give you a brief explanation. Indeed, last week we voted on how we might be able to monitor these national thresholds in terms of the fact that the government is now clearly going under the national threshold in its own proposals. These take place both in connection with procurement and in the provision of social and health care services. I think it is important that we monitor these effects of the legislation and, if necessary, we should also be prepared to use these maximum amounts of the directive to our advantage. Then, as a second point, this second statement takes a position on this very point, which was raised here by the Social Democrats, in other words, on the competition for social and health services, particularly when it comes to housing services for people with disabilities and the elderly, the provision of services for people with disabilities and personal assistance. After all, no power in the world puts these into competition, which means that they can always be produced in public. Now that we have this freedom of choice legislation in the air with regard to this social welfare reform — well, I guess there is a lot of other reform in the air, but in any case we do not know how this will be done. For example, this personal budgeting, direct procurement, this type of thing would be the way in which these services, which are for people's lifetime, should be organised, not by means of occasional competitive tendering. Thirdly, these innovative procurements have been highlighted in the third statement, namely the search for a solution to a particular problem and, secondly, the improvement of equal access for small and medium-sized enterprises to public procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u106	Mr President! I personally have to say that I am very disappointed and sorry about this procurement law report, insofar as it gave rise in many ways to the hope that these revisions to the directive could have been set, the thresholds set, as the European Union allows. In this way, it is truly confusing that Finland is now the only country that does not take advantage of the opportunities provided by this directive and we are making this issue even more difficult in many ways. We know that procurement law is a procedure. But when we talk about social and health services, in practice, when we talk about people who need social and health services, we are talking about people with disabilities and older people and services that are special services for many and many people, including services that are life-long services. For this reason, for example, these thresholds provided for by the directive may make it difficult for these people to live and to have their own influence on the kind of services they will receive in the future. The second thing that had to do with it was to make these direct acquisitions possible. In this legislative proposal, a number of experts stated that they should be made even clearer in order to genuinely use these direct contracts. That would be possible at the moment, but when this legislation and guidance on them are so unclear, they will not be used in practice. Similarly, what is problematic about this is that the position of customers in this procurement law does not improve, but in practice this clearly... [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : The speaker can continue with the speaker. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u109	Mr President! I propose that the bill be amended in line with the Greens' objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u110	Mr President! Last week, this procurement law was widely debated and voted on, and there have already been many of these shortcomings. One of the problems we face here is that we do not ensure that there is knowledge in the procurement process, because it is one of the pain thresholds which has been a real problem even in the current procurement law, even if it could have been competitive at a price other than the price alone. That is why I support these proposals made by Mr Vartia for measures to be taken, on the one hand, to set up a public procurement development, advisory and monitoring unit and, on the other hand, to monitor the success of the environmental, social, social and fiscal criteria in procurement, and, if not, then, of course, it should lead to action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u111	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u112	Mr President! The direct ownership of Vake Oy, a development company under the bill, would initially be EUR 2.4 billion in state ownership in nine companies. It is therefore a significant ownership arrangement. A new type of development company is justified by the fact that, within defined limits, it could make acquisitions and acquisitions more freely. This would improve the efficiency of the use of public capital to generate new economic activities. The Government’s objective to highlight the key role of the active state-owner in creating, supporting and enabling new business is quite right. However, it remains unclear how the proposed new development company and the structure of ownership management will support this objective and what benefits the proposed company will bring in relation to the current situation. Mr President! The Government has not been able to justify what kind of ownership policy measures the development company is capable of doing, which the Government is already unable to do within the framework of the Parliament's mandate. In our view, an active ownership policy, including the acquisition of new ownership and the development of corporate ownership, can also be done through existing ownership management and decision-making structures and, if not, the approach, role and operating principles of the proposed development company should be more clearly justified in the proposal before the adoption of new legislation and the establishment of a development company. The revenue flows of the development company would be outside the central government budget, which can be considered as a reduction in the parliamentary budget. The bill and the proposed structure of ownership policy threaten to reduce Parliament's decision-making powers in relation to important ownership policy policies, as ownership is transferred one step further from direct parliamentary direction. This is a problem for the transparency of democracy and decision-making, especially since the real needs and interests of the development company have not been crediblely described. In their opinion, both the National Audit Office and the Legislative Evaluation Council drew attention to the fact that the need, tasks and operating model for such a new development company have not been sufficiently opened up. The draft law proposes the establishment of a new parliamentary advisory board on ownership policy. The negotiating board is, in itself, necessary and appropriate, but without a proper decision-making forum, it is certainly not enough to compensate for the possible narrowing of Parliament's direct ownership policy power. Mr President! The structure of the development company and the actual way in which it operates and operating principles also raise a lot of questions to which the draft law gives little answers. Obviously, the new development company would be mainly a structure without the actual strong and competent staff. The question arises as to who the actual development of the ownership structure, the related decisions and the preparation of decisions, for example in relation to the acquisition of new ownership, will be made if the proposed new company does not have strong and competent personnel. If decisions are still prepared and taken by the Government, what is the use of the new structure? And how to ensure consistent corporate governance in companies whose state ownership is divided between the development company and other state-owned entities? It is also unclear what the relationship between the development company’s government and political guidance will be. Since the development company is a limited liability company, its management is subject to its liabilities and obligations under the Companies Act. However, ownership management and the relevant decisions are assured to remain in the Government. How does the relationship work if Prime Minister Sipilä, who is responsible for corporate governance, has the responsibility for the decisions in accordance with the Companies Act? Who will agree to be a member of the board of directors of this type of limited liability company in the first place? Issues related to the company's operating practices, administration and structure and the relationship with the Government should be able to be described in more detail before the proposed new company is set up. Mr President! Sometimes old ownership is justified, but it makes no sense to sell profitable state ownership in a situation where the return on ownership is higher than the interest on loans. This is a basic business logic which the State owner should also follow. Milking cows should not be sold or slaughtered. The fear is that the development company arrangement is one step in the development process where the government sells strategically important and/or economically sound holdings for ideological reasons more than would be justified. How do we know that the proposed development company will not only become a sales company for ownership? It would appear that this is the case when the company is mainly transferred to a holding for which there is a right to sell or for which a right to sell is sought. Mr President! The need for a development company and its policies and principles should be better justified and the change in Parliament's decision-making powers should be better described before the creation of a new company. In the light of the above and in accordance with protest 2, I propose that the bill be rejected and that one statement be adopted, which reads as follows: "The Government requires that Parliament be given a comprehensive account of the real need and purpose of a new owner-policy development company and that the State owner refrains from selling holdings that have strategic significance for the Finnish economy and the development of economic activities or whose return exceeds the interest rate on Finnish sovereign loans."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u113	Mr President! They heard almost like a cannon and just something. It is really important to weigh up how we are now in this fascination, how this government is bringing in some new dynamic mechanism for creating a new industry, when then we really do not know what is inside. The Parliamentary Monitoring Group — however, when it is seen that the whisperer is now Prime Minister Sipilä of the Government and then the limited company. However, the relationship between the two has been described quite well, which is quite impressive and powerful, control and then the law on limited liability companies, but that parliamentary steering group is merely a sidekick to try to describe the fact that Parliament has some power in this regard. In fact, in this form, this company, Parliament itself no longer has any power. It is just a side-by-side successor who is given a fine title, but everything else is excluded from the power and authority of the real Parliament. It is indeed a good thing what Mr Sarkkinen described above, and in that sense I would like to say at this stage that I support his rejection and his proposal for a statement. The current situation and the future should be more concretely described in this proposal. At this point in time, Parliament is left with only a few guesses as to what the future holds, although I do believe that even a milking cow should be killed if its milking power is waning and it can be better paid, but
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u114	Mr President! The Socialist Group in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has objected to 1 and to two motions for statements, and I would like to propose that these statements be adopted. The statements read as follows: First of all: "The Commission requires a significant clarification of the role of the state development company and of its portfolio companies' corporate governance. A binding and clear statute must be drawn up for the company, which obliges the company to maintain the capital invested in it and to make only economically sound and sustainable investments. In addition, the Statute must clearly define the division of competences between the management of companies and the ownership steering department of the Prime Minister's Office. Parliament requires that this statute be brought before Parliament before the transfer of state ownership to a development company." Declaration 2: "In order to ensure the realisation of a strategic interest, the government's ownership in Neste Corporation is held at more than 50%."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u115	Mr President! Without further ado, I support the proposals made by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u116	Mr President! I would just like to take up Mr Mustajärvi' s speech, which compared the sale or killing of a dairy cow. Anyway, if we're talking about selling, I don't think we're talking about killing. Of course, it is justified that a dairy cow should not be killed, but then, if we are talking about ownership arrangements, it is a little different than killing, but hopefully it is talking about the same government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u117	Mr President! It may be that even such an idea can be given, but in this Parliament we have been dealing with a company where the government has been heavily staked, and someone may think that perhaps there on the other side of Finland would have been worth killing before putting even more money on. Personally, I do not represent that aspect personally, but it is really good to weigh what it means, because the kill money, the leather and the selling of meat are what can be obtained. And I think, if we are to discuss it, that even the abandonment of the ownership of the Senate companies and the capitalisation of the company in order to create a new business would be a good option, and at this point I do not mean going into bankruptcy, which apparently means killing Mr Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u118	Mr President! I'll fix it. That's where the fatigue just happened. I meant, of course, Mr Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u119	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u120	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I was meant to talk more broadly about the risk of social exclusion for young people and the difficult employment situation, but in this situation I shall be brief. The employment of young people under the age of 30 should be facilitated, for example, by providing them with the right to earn EUR 500 a month without affecting subsidies or other benefits, while employers would be entitled to lower employer contributions when employing a young person. On the basis of the above, I propose that Parliament adopt measures 19/2015 and 48/2016 in order for the Government to take measures to develop the Youth Guarantee and outreach youth work for all young people, as well as the apprenticeship and mini-job model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u121	Mr President! The positive feature of this bill is that passive support for unemployment benefit is to be directed towards active use. However, this good objective could be extended and streamlined so that every unemployed person, after 6 months of unemployment, has the opportunity to use his unemployment benefit as an employment voucher without the discretion of the Employment and Economic Development Office. This employment voucher would be at the level of the basic daily allowance and would last up to 300 days. On this subject, I propose that we accept Amendment No 1 to the draft statement 1. In addition, I propose that the 2nd draft statement of objection 1 be adopted, which requires the government to take active action to reverse long-term unemployment and to waive its limit of 3000 person-years for 2017, with 100% paid support for associations and foundations. If the government's proposal for a limit of 3000 person-years of work is implemented, the employment potential of the organisations will be significantly reduced, and this will mean an increase in long-term unemployment. Mr President! It is also difficult to understand why the government consciously wants to put subsidised work in the workplace at a disadvantage. This is the case when the employment condition referred to in the Unemployment Security Act will only accumulate 75% of the paid work. The government justifies the proposal by making it easier for unemployed people to access the open labour market. In the current employment situation, these arguments are very fragile. In addition, it was pointed out in the expert committee that the proposal increases the administrative work of employment and economic development offices and also increases the cost of long-term unemployment for municipalities. Mr President! I hope that the regular interviews of unemployed people proposed in the draft law will be carried out in the right way for the unemployed person. A quick 5 minute visit or e-mail may not help with employment. The meeting must have the opportunity to discuss the situation of the unemployed in depth, and the official must have the time and skills to guide the unemployed on a personal employment path. I have heard doubts about many TE Offices whether this will be possible with the additional resources promised now. The debates must be meaningful and encouraging for the unemployed themselves and must not be accompanied by sanctions. The presentation of sanctions in the guiding interview is also not motivating for the work of the TE Offices. I very much hope that these interviews can be carried out properly, and therefore the proposal of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities to help municipalities respond to the growing need for interviews must be strongly supported. But finally, Mr President, I would like to reiterate: I would like to propose that the two proposals for statements in protest 1 be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u122	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that I support the proposals made by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. However, a few words on this point. I have to say in such a way that I am extremely confused and angry, and I do not really find such feelings, which is why the government does not want to strengthen the activities of workshops and organisations, because we have a large number of young people and people in need of adult support whose employment will not succeed in the business market. As I said earlier today, last Friday I was opening a breakfast for the workshop association, and two reports were published explaining the effectiveness and funding of the workshop activities and also highlighting the experiences of these young people themselves as to how they have experienced working in workshops to strengthen their lives and how they have experienced workshops in general. In principle, these reports stated that we currently have 15% of the age group that leaves its education in comprehensive school, of which about 40% are unemployed at the age of 30 and out of study. These are precisely the people who could be helped in the workshops if we only had, for example, pay subsidies and could possibly have provided resources for these workshops, for their implementation. I'm sorry, Speaker, I'll be there again. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : All right, well, welcome back to the toilet. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u125	Värderade Talman! Jag understöder ledamot Rehn-Kivis förslag.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u126	Mr President! In the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, our representative, Antero Laukkanen, has also supported Mr Rehn-Kive's protest 2 which, in these policy initiatives, takes a stand on the employment opportunities of young people in particular and then on the reduction of red tape in the acquisition of labour. But here I would like to say in general terms — and last week the Christian Democratic Group as a whole supported this motion against the accumulation of working conditions, which came from those Social Democrats — that it is strange, in this government proposal, that it is precisely these long-term unemployed who are hardest to employ — who, on many occasions, these associations and workshops and similars are the only opportunities for access to the so-called intermediate labour market and then perhaps are a stepping stone to the actual labour market — that the use of this opportunity is being undermined, that is to say, that it would not be the same for them. And then, on the other hand, this is also what has been raised here in Declaration 2, that is, this limit of 3000 person-years of employment, with 100 % paid support for associations and foundations. This demarcation will mean that associations and foundations do not have enough money at their disposal to enable them to employ the most vulnerable people, the most difficult to employ. And while long-term unemployment has remained high all the time and wants to be that it has increased in view of some improvement in other employment, these are quite the wrong moves on the part of the government in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u127	Mr President! A number of speakers have raised a number of points in relation to this three-monthly interview of the unemployed. However, I personally see that there is a sound basis here for acting in the way it is proposed. We must remember that we have very different groups of people who have fallen into unemployment and a few different groups of people need different measures to break off the unemployment pipeline and then prevent them from falling into this spiral of exclusion. There is, in fact, even researched information that such encounters can be quite crucial at the critical stages when there is a threat that the unemployed will be unemployed for perhaps a little longer. And if such contacts are achieved at a sufficiently high pace, it will also be possible to identify the personal situation of the unemployed person and, together with experts, find suitable solutions for the individual situation in question. I hope that we will also have sufficient resources for this kind of sensible labour policy activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u128	Mr President! What is good about this bill is, above all, that these basic components of earnings-related daily allowance, basic daily allowance and labour market support can now be used as pay subsidies, start-up grants or the financing of mobility grants. It is a good thing that this passive income is actively used in this way. For this interview with the job seeker: It certainly depends to a large extent on how it is done, how successful it is. It is true that the real concern lies in the ability of the staff of the TE Offices to have sufficient resources to make these encounters so that they really help. Well, the good thing about this is, of course, that young people under the age of 25 are also paid expenses during the work experiment. But what is really strange is that the passive ones are now being rewarded for paying the expenses only for the period of employment-promoting services in which participation is required, but then if you are active and want to participate, then you will not receive the expenses. So the active ones are punished but then the passive ones are rewarded, and this is really the wrong message. The wrong message is also that, now that long-term unemployment has only increased, the intermediate labour market will be weakened when it needs to be strengthened. Wage subsidies are being weakened, workshop activities are being reduced, the opportunities for associations to use pay subsidies are being weakened — all of them are really worrying in this time when we need more and more routes for the long-term unemployed to move to the open labour market. And even if you don't, the associations have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u129	Mr President! At the outset, we heard Mr Mikkonen's good speech that passiveness is being supported, but I would not use the term 'passive subsidies' in the first place, but unemployment benefits, income-related daily allowances or labour market subsidies that people receive to ease their own life situation and prevent them from being involved in this society. When the word "passive" is used, it is easily understood that a person is passive. The form of aid may be that it does not require activity and, of course, the second view is that there is a requirement for some measures to be taken by a person to receive, after dismissal, a earnings-related daily allowance. For my part, I am trying to distinguish between the unemployed and the passive, not to be compared and not to be synonyms. In its own alternative budget, the Left Alliance has highlighted in this initiative how measures can be taken more than just on this point. Within the policy initiative, there is the possibility that we will be able to activate the unemployed with other measures and enable companies to take the unemployed more easily. In other words, in the case of a young person under the age of 25 or who has been unemployed for 200 days, an entrepreneur who is paid by such a person may be exempted, in the first year from all the so-called side costs of pay, and in the following year, gradually take it downwards, allowing the entrepreneur to anticipate the risk of making a contribution to the job of the unemployed person. The good thing about this bill is that young people are taking part, albeit at the risk of sanctions, but then the other side is that something is being exported from those who are unemployed and who have applied for labour market training. I believe that this is a weakness of this bill, which should not be included in the active measures taken by this government to penalise those who are actively active and want to develop the conditions for employment and employment. In that sense, this bill contains a lot of reprehensible, though some good features. However, more activities should be allowed in Finland to provide employers with certain benefits at the time when they take an unemployed job seeker to work. And one can say that when this measure initiative has been calculated by the Parliamentary Information Service, that in the first year of this kind of jobless or young unemployed person under the age of 25 is given a 100% exemption from payment, then it is cost-neutral for central government finances. In the following years, it will only provide the State with more tax revenue than it costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u130	Mr President! Just for a moment from this place: I feel a little sad when you listen to the conversation. There is no confusion of concepts here, but nevertheless: start-up money, mobility allowance, expense compensation, the intermediate labour market and so on. I'm sorry to hear about the rotational leave, the working rotation leave. Twenty thousand people in the best year will get out of the squirrel wheel and the unemployed will be replaced. So I am calling for such a genuine and proper division of labour philosophy in the debate, especially now that this long-term unemployment is on the increase that it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u131	Mr President! Even on rotation leave, there is probably a place in our labour market system, but the bigger thing is whether one can find one another who has a desire to work, and then a company that might be willing to find a suitable person to hire, and I think that this proposal from the government has been dismantled. But it is of course the case that not all the problems of our labour markets are solved by this, but there are a number of other measures that are needed, and I believe that in this respect the government itself has been on the move in a variety of ways, improving these conditions for employment and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u132	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson's wish can be accepted in the sense that we have very few proposals that can be used to share work. We know, on the other hand, that some of us are working far too hard and weary under it and then we have a large number of people who are out of work and then weary of it. In that sense, we would also need proposals of the type where work can be shared. Then I would like to correct the fact that I do not think in any way that the unemployed are passive, but I meant that these specific forms of support as such can be considered as active use if the aid they receive can be used as start-up money. But I know that the unemployed do want work and they are actively looking for it all the time, and the talk that the unemployed are lazy is an urban legend.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u133	Mr President! I would like to say one more thing, in addition, about this workshop activity: Some 70 per cent of young people in workshops are placed positively in training and work or other measures after the workshop period. In other words, it is not just any thing, as has been given here, to some extent, such an image — not in this sitting today, but in the past. And more than 90 percent of young people on workshops experience different types of strengthening in their own lives. Therefore, in terms of the effectiveness of this wage subsidy, the employment rate of young people in the open labour market is about 10% higher than that of young people in general, i.e. almost 30%. Now I would like us to make real use of it and to take this workshop activity more seriously as a tool of our own and not to be driven down, as the government is unfortunately doing now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u134	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u135	Mr President! There are both pros and cons in this reform. The good news is that it benefits students with low incomes in particular, the general housing allowance is per year and also takes better account of the local differences in the level of rent. However, this proposal and the general housing allowance also present clear problems which should have been taken into account before the reform was carried out. Moreover, the reform should not have been carried out by financing the transfer of students to the general housing allowance by cutting income and support for all beneficiaries of housing allowance. One key problem with general housing allowance is that the income of those living in the same household is added together even if people have separate leases. When general housing allowance is granted, persons residing at the same address are automatically considered to constitute a single household, the economy of which is considered as a single entity. This is particularly problematic for students who usually live in groups or other low-aligned housing arrangements, for example. The position of family students will also be clearly weakened as a result of this reform, as student support will continue to be taken into account as income in the determination of general housing allowance. This means that the reform will reduce the income of already low-income family students. We are also concerned about the crowd of 40,000 students who, with this reform, will be completely deprived of support for housing, and we hope that the government will monitor the effects of this reform on these students and, if necessary, take steps to improve their position. In accordance with protest 2, the second draft statement contained in the committee's report will be adopted in accordance with the report, but instead of the first draft statement, the draft statement will be adopted in addition to the new draft statement 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u136	Värderade Talman! Mr Andersson has already addressed the problems of this bill. After all, this is basically a positive reform, for the reasons raised by Mr Andersson there, inter alia because it takes better account of changing rent levels across Finland. But there are problems: families with children, especially those who are studying, are in a worse position than before, and the rigidity that is built in here and which, for example, does not adequately deal with students living in a group room. That is why I propose that Parliament adopt the two statements of objection 3, which are specifically aimed at correcting these issues. And I hope that it will then take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u137	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u138	Mr President! Without further ado: Mr Andersson made a very good point about the content of this law and its pros and cons, but also about the reasons why the SDP has protested that this bill should be rejected. And if this bill is not rejected in Parliament's deliberations, then I would suggest that, in addition to the statements contained in this committee's report — it says 'place' but should read 'in addition' — two statements are accepted in accordance with the statements made in protest 1. We have a proposal for a statement: 'The Commission requires that the transfer of students to the general housing allowance be carried out in such a way that the conditions for granting general housing allowance are not undermined in order to compensate for the costs of the transition, and the impact of the change on the student's income must be monitored. In particular, following the reform, the status of family students will be included in a specific review and preparations will be started to improve their status." And the second statement: "The economy requires rapid and effective action to improve incentives and effectiveness for affordable rental housing, including student housing, as targeted support for the provision of construction is an effective means of increasing the volume of affordable rental housing production and thereby curbing the increase in housing support expenditure."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u139	Mr President! Indeed, it has been pointed out in the speeches how this generally improves the status of students when entering the general housing allowance, except for this one group, i.e. the situation of family students. In that sense, tomorrow, as the KD Group, we will probably support all the statements that have taken account of this position of family students and hope for improvement. And in previous speeches, the way in which the KD in its proposal for an alternative budget has calculated how this situation in the lives of family students could be eased by such a guardian allowance was examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u140	Mr President! Perhaps that much more concreteness and precision, since as many as 60 percent of family students already live below the poverty line and the cuts planned for student support and the transfer of students to the general housing allowance still have a significant impact on the livelihood of family students. With this argument, I would like to support Mr Kiljune's report on the wreckage and also on these statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u141	Mr President! I support the protests made by Mr Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u142	Mr President! We are now dealing with this general housing allowance law, in which students are transferred to the general housing allowance at the same time as changes in student allowance are implemented. In this context, it is a pleasure to note that the proposal to transfer students to the general housing allowance is now being implemented, as recommended by student organisations and among others by Kela. Then it is also good to note that what is particularly good here is this year round. So now, in a way, different housing support systems do not need a student to bounce from one form of support to another, but this also makes it easier to study all year round. On average, students increase by around EUR 60 per month this support, and in total, 81% of students, especially those living alone, increase the support. Losers of this change are especially couples whose combined income is so high that they do not need support. In my opinion, it is right and socially fair that those who have their own incomes should not receive that much support, but that aid should be more targeted at those who need it. The problem with this change, and who needs to be taken into account, are, for example, those living in a group room. They must in future get this support better for themselves, be on a separate lease for everyone. Then there are these family students who, in this change, have an average loss of 27 euros per month and about 40 euros in the family of two guardians, and for them it is important that this is carried out by a guardian raise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u143	Mr President! That's right, it's really important that we do it. Does it include this proposal that it should be implemented? It is a question of leaving in the future what is in your dreams. It is great that there is goodwill in the government, but it is not in the process of implementing it. Now this is left to the future governments, to the future parliaments, while this is now being put through by the MPs of the government parties, which really means that the status of family students is being undermined. What is being done and weakened is now no percentage of who is getting better can only be changed. In that sense, Mr Jarva, I do not quite understand the logic of cutting some people off and then leaving something to be desired.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u144	Mr President! In connection with this change in the general housing allowance, the Committee on the Environment has stated here in its statement that 'the Parliament requires that the impact of the reform on the livelihood of family students be monitored and that any need for legislative reform be assessed, such as the increase in the number of guardians of the study grant'. This is also good, but in fact the Committee on Education and Culture has made a statement in the proposal on student aid that the government must consider the introduction of this breed of guardianship as part of the study grant, and that is also what the government parties have agreed that this should be dealt with in the context of next spring's budget debate. And when these changes in student support come into force next August next spring, there will still be plenty of time to deal with this issue and then to say that if any other changes need to be made here in connection with changes in student support and general housing allowance, then these casting errors will be corrected as far as these changes are concerned, and this situation will be corrected, especially for these family students.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u145	Mr President! I'll wait and I'll shake hands if this happens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u146	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 18/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u147	Mr President! I know it is late, but I am going to talk about this proposal a little longer because it is an important whole and it is now at first reading. With this bill, the Government seeks to dismantle unnecessary and overlapping standards in the field of education. The dismantling of standards is, in itself, a worthy objective in order to reduce red tape and reduce duplication of rules. In this proposal, however, a large part of the obligations relate to the well-being of students and student care. Therefore, all changes need to be carefully considered so that the dismantling of standards does not lead to a reduction in the level of student care or to a threat to the legal security of students. In the government's proposal, one aspect of the debate is to increase the powers of upper secondary principals so that they have the power to dismiss a student for a limited period of time. At present, suspension is decided by a multi-member institution. This practice has been perceived as rigid and slow in schools and has, among other things, made it difficult to tackle bullying cases quickly. On the other hand, disfellowshiping is a very harsh disciplinary decision for the student. The Government's proposal proposed an increase in the powers of principals so that the principal could have been given the right to decide on dismissal for a maximum of one year. This proposal was criticised in a number of opinions for the fact that the student's legal security is significantly reduced. I personally welcome the fact that the Committee on Education reduced the deadline to three months. It creates a significantly better balance for the student's legal security. However, it is problematic that the majority of the committee decided to include in the report a statement that the ministry should consider, among other things, having a detention as part of compulsory education and the right of the principal of basic education to dismiss a pupil for a short period of time. As far as basic education is concerned, we are talking about even younger pupils who are also subject to compulsory education. The temporary dismissal of a student subject to compulsory education must therefore be seen as an even more drastic disciplinary measure which also affects the student’s statutory right to receive education. I am therefore not in favour of increasing the powers for basic education and I do not think it is justified to include such a statement in the report. Mr President! Another flaw in the committee's report is the part on the eligibility criteria for curators. For some reason, the majority of the committee at the committee stage decided to significantly relax the eligibility criteria for school curators in relation to the government proposal, which also meant a relaxation of eligibility conditions compared to previous practice. Curators play a key role in the multiprofessional work of student care. In the case of students, the knowledge and training of workers is just as important as in the case of all other population groups as the early implementation of support. In particular, knowledge of social and social work is of great importance in working with young people and in student care. The eligibility criteria for the curators have been relaxed over the past few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u150	Mr President! Of course, the debate on curators in the corridor is not as topical as it was in the last period when these demands were raised to allow those who have worked as curators for more than five years to have access to the educational basis which was normally a social worker, to keep their own work, i.e. to act as curators, but to have been deprived of the opportunity to change jobs on the basis of their own experience, when they were then required to have a university of applied sciences degree in addition to it. On the other hand, in the same context, those who had been in a curator’s position for two years or less with the same experience were required to have a polytechnic degree after the transition period. And there was a situation where there were no adult education places in Finland where these people could have qualified for a polytechnic degree in the workplace — in Seinäjoki, a few places were for these adult students, who, in a sense, would have been impossible to obtain this qualification in addition to work, when, in the past, in such contexts where qualifications have been raised, it has been possible to obtain that professional qualification in connection with the work. This was not done last season, and now we are here, and for my part I am so and so, behind and against this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u151	Mr President! Just a few things about this report. Firstly, just as Mr Andersson has said here, it is very important that the issue of student care in the social welfare reform should remain there at municipal level and close to school, because these people are working, both school curators and school health nurses and others involved in student care, especially in the school world and with students, so it would seem a very strange solution to this administrative separation from one of the regional social areas. Now for high school unit prices. It should be noted that we currently have huge regional segregation in the upper secondary school in Finland, and quite a few municipalities organise so-called semi-secondary courses for students, because they save where there are, in a sense, the least sufferers, for example, students from optional groups of different languages may find themselves in a situation where they have half of that course and then have to study on their own. Perhaps in the case of a real subject, you will understand this, but when you talk about pronunciation of languages or learning languages that are otherwise a little less common, it seems that in this case the students are put in a very unequal position, depending on where they come from, how wealthy the municipality is and where the municipality will then go for these savings. Of course, there are behind these austerity measures relating to government unit prices. On disciplinary measures: it is a good thing that the committee has taken a position on this, and it has been said that this must now certainly be clarified and considered as a whole, but all in all, it must be said that there are a great many types of bullying taking place in the school world today and that it is also very much linked to new technical aids.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u152	Mr President! Just as described above, it is particularly important that student care remains in the municipalities also after the social welfare reform and that the competence of the curators is taken care of. As a result, the recommended number of curators should be changed to the number of psychologists and monitored for their fulfillment. Obviously, this weakening of the conditions of competence of the curator is justified, at least in part, by the possibility of a shortfall in the availability of the curators, but it should instead be corrected by increasing the number of training places, rather than by reducing the number of qualifications. Then this one big question that arises here is the increase in the powers of principals, who gets to dismiss the student from school. It is good to remember that even three months is a huge long time for a young person and can have significant effects on the future of a young person, creating a risk of exclusion as well. When a decision is taken by one person on this current system, but with more than one institution, the student’s legal protection will be jeopardised, and it will be surprising if situations are created that, in practice, this student’s legal protection will be ensured primarily by the court, because the appeal to the decision can only be made to the administrative court. Much is said that discipline should be increased in schools, but the most important thing would be to tackle bullying as early as possible and to take preventive action on it. At the point when disciplinary action is being taken, we are already in a very late stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u153	Mr President! It's dawning. I'm gonna focus on the essentials, two things. The second has already been strongly highlighted in the debate, the competence of the curators and the level of education. In this protest of the socialists, the Greens, for the sake of a good working barrier, the meeting was then absent from the left-wing union, Mr Li Andersson, who now tabled this amendment in line with our protest, which I support, states: 'It is worth noting that the student's fundamental right to access the services of a legalised social worker and information on social services in educational institutions must not be undermined. Both the curator and the curator are faced with children and adolescents who are difficult to cope with and who live in bad conditions. It is therefore important that every person in the job of curator has sufficient qualifications, i.e. not only applied university studies, but also studies in the subject matter of social work are necessary." We did not, therefore, accept the fact that, when the government's proposal already shone these qualifications, they were then relaxed, it did not happen to us. The second point then relates to this motion for a statement, which to some extent came out of the bush at the very end of the committee's work. Of course, reference had been made to this, but we do not believe that the Committee on Education and Rural Development has gone far enough through the acceptance of the right of the primary school, the compulsory school, to dismiss a student. So we were, and we believe, the task of compulsory school is to provide the educational and knowledge skills that are part of the primary school. The Education Committee had already taken a position on this at its meeting in 2013 — report No 10: by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media: "The Committee notes that detention is not a matter of compulsory education, but only education and failure to achieve educational objectives can be an obstacle to entering the next class or obtaining a certificate of termination." My question is this: when it is suggested that the primary school will end a few children so that they will have dozens, some even hundreds of detentions, then will the principal and the various institutions be up to date if the children are just allowed to re-assess and re-assess. And I say that they are not, knowing, however, that today's school problems are not easy. At the time, I was Minister of Education when this law on peace at work in schools was amended. I brought it from outside the government program, where, among other things, the educational discussion was raised to the level of the law. In a way, these disciplinary instruments must also be used actively and not followed with eyes. What is the solution if we dismiss the child from school by decision of the principal? I'm done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u154	Mr President! Above all, these curators and school psychologists, I would like to say that I have been dealing with this in the Committee on Culture. The experience of the real world is that, for example, we in Kainuu have already been working under the wars and on the ground, with the help of provincial social services. It's been considered good there. It is also one possible option that is a regional employer. School psychologists working under the Sote feel that this cooperation is good and still cooperate closely with schools and municipalities in the working community. These school psychologists have also been better recruited when we know there is a significant shortage of them. We also know that, among school psychologists, for example, there is a different view of this at national level. However, since many regions do not have this experience anywhere but Kainuu at the moment and there have been positive experiences there, I would also not strictly limit what it is, which is the potential employer, which is best suited to which region. Kainuu has agreed that Kainuu has been employed as an employer and they have acted as an employee in that community, yet in close cooperation with municipalities and schools. As far as the curators are concerned, it has been stated here in the proposal that the expert consultation has shown that there is as good experience of the skills of curators with other suitable qualifications as that of those with demanding social training. And with this in mind and on the basis of experience, these qualifications will be changed in order to bring a sufficient number of these helpers close to the young.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u155	Mr President! For the sake of safety, I also support Mr Li Andersson's proposal that the legislative proposals should be adopted otherwise in accordance with the committee's report, except in section 4 of the draft law. deletion and rejection of the proposal for a statement. I mean, I'm in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u156	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 42/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u157	Mr President! It's almost 4:00, so just a few thoughts about a basic income experiment. In principle, I am in favour of carrying out a basic income test and turning social protection into inclusive and work-friendly, as is, of course, also the reduction of bureaucracy and simplification of the benefit system. However, these objectives cannot be achieved by the model presented here. Extensively implemented, this basic income experiment is unrealistic and would bring a deficit of EUR 11 billion. The model cannot properly explain the employment impact of basic income, nor can it be properly described as a basic income experiment. It doesn't take out incentive traps. All in all, the message from many opinions and expert opinions to the committee was also very critical of the experiment being presented, which clearly showed that the experiment now proposed does not provide answers to the questions that are necessary for the wider implementation of the basic income. One might ask why, therefore, a test which can already be established on the basis of the starting positions is that the practical benefit of the experiment is small and cannot even theoretically, in principle, meet the objectives set. The KD has already proposed a model of supportive basic security in the past. The universal credit model, which is already being used and expanded in Great Britain, is a model that reconciles social security and pay, so that taking work is always encouraging. That is why I am going to suggest that the basic income test model proposed by the government is rejected and that the government is pressing for the implementation of the national income register in order to be able to implement more advanced models later: the KD's model of incentive basic security
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u158	Mr President! Indeed, at second reading, KD will present a rejection of this government proposal and then a statement relating to the fact that it would make sense in this situation to wait until 2019 for that national income register to be completed, and then we will be able to try out basic income models that are actually self-removal of incentive traps and which are also clearly improving the life situation of individuals. The Christian Democrats have their own model here, as Mr Tanus has already mentioned, this basic supportive protection based on the Universal Credit model, in which, in fact, social security benefits and also wage income are coordinated in a common, up-to-date income register, and when we take into account taxation and then the reduction in these social benefits, we always lose more of the job than we lose with these social security benefits and taxes. Indeed, this model has been an experiment in Great Britain, and it has produced good results there, and in that sense it is unfortunate that the government will now put 20 million into such an experiment, which will not for many reasons give a reliable picture of how this basic income model works and what its effects will be. In fact, now quite recently there has been a debate about the situation that this basic income test involves this kind of strange trial setting. After all, the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health states that the person chosen for the target group cannot refuse to participate in the experiment. On the other hand, he is free to choose whether to continue as a customer of the Labour Market Administration and whether to apply for unemployment benefit or not. And this will cause this person, in fact, not necessarily to rely on this EUR 560 alone, but, if you understand and know how, then you can apply for these different social benefits. On the other hand, if he does not understand how to apply for them, his life situation may well deteriorate, especially with a family. And in that sense, you could say that this is quite a negative lottery draw, because it has been said that the lot is going to take about 2,000 unemployed people for this experiment, and you can say that, in the worst case scenario, quite a black pekka might be lost when this experiment comes into play. Ms Anni Huhtala, Director General of Vatti, has estimated that this lack of child increases, if you do not understand them, will largely nullify the experiment for families with children. And the same has been verified by Nordea's private economy economist Olli Kärkkäinen. And then, too, the chairman of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, Tarja Filatov, has already publicly estimated that this is probably why family members are excluded from this experiment. And in that sense it is a pity that the government is indeed now going into the kind of experiment and moving forward with the type of experiment, where there are in principle such great contradictions and also that the situation in man’s life may deteriorate when this experiment comes into play from what is at present. I would therefore like to see Parliament seriously wondering whether we can really oblige people to take part in this type of experiment, which may leave their lives worse than they are today. And, as I said, at second reading we will then present these options for rejection of KD and then also a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u159	Mr President! The aim of this basic income experiment is to assess how social protection could be reformed and how incentives traps for doing work can be reduced and reduced. However, there are a lot of problems with the basic income experiment in this government proposal which, in fact, can already be said to be not very good for testing these issues. This committee's opinion itself states that, for example, in order to determine the impact of these traps, this limitation, which is contained in the government's proposal, is extremely problematic. We Greens believe that it is necessary to try the basic income, but when you try it, it should be done in such a way that we really will then be able to obtain more general and useful information about it from the point of view of further analysis. The problem with this government proposal is that, in practice, this is limited to increasing the number of people receiving labour market support and not to providing proper clarity on these incentives, and, on the other hand, as Mrs Essayah has said above, it is now drawing up a series of people who, in practice, will certainly not go along with this, so that this experimental group is also very small. We Greens believe that basic income should be given the best possible experience, and that it should then be made sufficiently comprehensive and of high quality and that time should also be set aside for that experiment. This two years, as set out in this model of government, is not enough. Therefore, we propose that this bill be adopted in accordance with the amended Act LA 103/2016, i.e. that this Act is taken as the basis for this experiment. This experiment would extend the duration from two years to three years, and we will also propose an additional EUR 10 million per year in order to do this. The sample of the experiment will be expanded in both quantitative and qualitative terms. This will involve people from different life situations, in different labour market situations, in a much wider range of backgrounds and in a more diverse range of situations. In this case, these results, which can be obtained from the experiment, are also more in line with the reality of the effects that basic income could have on human behavior. That is why, in our model, this experiment would include not only the unemployed but also low-income wage earners, low-income entrepreneurs, freelancers and self-employed workers. A separate regulation could then provide for different conditions for social status, labour market status, income and wealth. But in this model of ours we could really extend this experiment for three years and get 3500 people involved in the experiment, and we are already talking about a group of people who will certainly be able to achieve more generalised results. One important difference in our model is that we would add to this experiment this missing tax element, which would make the pilot scheme more realistic and also reduce costs. It would be essential to restore the tax collected in the experiment to the pilot budget: this would also remind us of a system which would also be more feasible in terms of price and which would, overall, reflect more reality than this basic income test model now presented by the government. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Madam Representative,I ask you to confirm the basis for your presentation. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u162	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u163	Mr President! I support this proposal by Mr Mikkonen. It should be noted that if these resources are to be sought from somewhere, I believe that the President could also be in favour of reducing the money slightly from that emissions trading compensation, which has now been earmarked for 40 million, then there would be more resources to carry out a proper basic income experiment which will change the way of thinking. If we were successful, that would certainly be a good condition for success in Finland. At this point, I wish you a very good night and thank you for the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u164	Mr President! It is a real shame that this proposal by the government for a basic income test, which is very important in principle and in practice, will now be discussed in the morning by tens of more than four. During this 14-hour session, I have read this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the basic income test and the amendment of the Income Tax Act and the Advance Recovery Act — through the whole broad report. It does tell us how difficult and varied the performance and the experiment are. Of course, I will not go through it more at this time of day. It's just two or three border markings. This could be viewed very critically, but it is better than nothing, because we all know that, in the near future and in the long term, there is undoubtedly an objective demand for certain types of basic leave, perhaps from the point of view of social equality and social participation. Well, the short time of this experiment, two years, is of course problematic. Then one of the details that I have been interested in during the debate on basic incomes and civil wages is that this government proposal has an age limit of 25 to 58 years. I myself have taken a very reserved and negative view of the fact that any kind of citizen's salary or basic income experiment would therefore be aimed at young people. Under no circumstances from comprehensive school to basic income. And in fact, I think that this age limit, 25 years, is too low. That is all I am going to do in this context. This proposed partial basic income model, which replaces the basic daily allowance for labour market support and unemployment benefit — then the net amount of EUR 560 per month and then there will be no weakening if you take a job, or if you receive additional earnings, it will not cut this — is interesting to see now. However, just as this report states, with regard to these conclusions, it is possible to be quite precise and careful, even in scientific terms, through the target group of 2000 people, for two years and so on. Let's follow with interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u165	Mr President! It is also nice to hear encouraging speeches and various proposals to implement the model from this basic income experiment. There is a consensus that it is good to try this out. Heikki Hiilamo, a professor of social policy at the University of Helsinki, has considered this an appropriate and good experiment, and it is good to start moving towards basic income. He has stated specifically that it is good to start and then expand the experiment. The basic income for the unemployed is now being tested, and then this could be extended to students later. For example, at the moment we already have the basic income of a pensioner, i.e. a guarantee pension. The basic income is therefore made up of different components. It is not a single system. Now we have these good experiences. Above all, the most important thing is that we look for ways to increase the number of people in work, which is why the unemployed are the first to come here and that is why this sanction is now being lifted from them. So it's always worth taking the job, that's what you're aiming at. Of course, the model is not complete and the basic result can only be explained when these are actually ideas and concrete experiments are made. Once the experiment has been carried out, a suitable model can be chosen and then thought ahead. But most importantly, let us get started and talk about what we can do after many decades of discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u166	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 21/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-131.u167	Mr President! This excellently prepared and good government proposal would have earned a broader and more thorough debate at the first reading of the law, and I am not going to replace it here as it were. However, I would like to raise two points: The objective of this law and the tasks of the public library have been modernised for today and for the future of our country. The aim of the Act is to promote equal opportunities for culture and culture among the population, a reading culture and diverse literacy, to provide facilities for learning, hobby, work and civic activities in the context of the tasks of public libraries, and to promote social and cultural dialogue. Then, in wisdom, the Committee on Education made one significant addition to this good government proposal as such: It was added to the paragraph that the role of school libraries in schools, day-care centres and others should be increased and strengthened, and we attach great importance to it. The committee emphasises the cooperation of day-care centres, schools and educational institutions with libraries, and then we propose an amendment to this section, which will then probably guide the activities of schools at municipal level even more actively in the use of library services. - That I saw it.
