ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u2	First question, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u3	Mr President! Finland is at the forefront of freedom of the press in international comparisons. This should be a cause for pride for all of us. Independent media is one of the main reasons why our democracy is so strong. It is the right of the voters and the interests of the decision-makers to communicate their interests in the media. It is not Western democracy that the media, whether it is tax-funded or commercial, should enjoy the Prime Minister's confidence. The fact that the Prime Minister is suspected of exerting pressure on the state media is a very serious matter. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister Sipilä: why have you, as Prime Minister of Finland, tried to put pressure on the YLE in the news about you?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u4	Madam President! I haven't pushed Yle, I haven't tried to influence the content of their cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u6	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you are Prime Minister of Finland. The Prime Minister should act under the authority of the Prime Minister, but your actions have been quite different.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u9	Madam President! The essence of this message is that I felt that the supplier should have provided me with the opportunity to respond to this serious argument, which was included in this case. In no way will I interfere with the content of the case itself except that I should have been heard in that connection. As far as e-mail is concerned, perhaps I could have left out the examples of the citizen's feedback to the journalist and I have regretted that yesterday.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u10	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, the Prime Minister's role in an open democracy is also to answer unpleasant questions when it comes to his actions as Prime Minister. The question of whether the Prime Minister has been unable to reach a decision on State aid is such a relevant issue, and the freezing provisions have also been created to safeguard politicians. It is the duty of a politician and a decision-maker to stay if there is even a suspicion that he could have used his position in a way that is inappropriate, that is to say, to protect the decision-maker. Therefore, it was right to ask this question and there is no reason to be offended. It has been worrying that with your comments, in which you questioned Yle's neutrality, you also indirectly gave the Prime Minister's authority instruments to those who say that traditional media cannot be trusted. During this time, the role of traditional media is very important when we have fake sites that spread outright lies, and in the name of the unity of this nation we must defend the independence of the media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u11	Madam President! The representative's question contained many questions and many arguments. If I start at the beginning and answer as far as I can. Firstly, the examination of this icy is the responsibility of each of us ministers in each decision. We are doing this very carefully, and I have also tried in advance to prepare for the situation that decisions will take place, by giving up all my business links and business assets in advance, in such a way as to minimise the number of situations. In this context, too, it has been carefully considered in advance and I have come to the conclusion in this decision — the Terrafame decision — that I am not prevented from taking that decision. As far as this freedom of expression and freedom of the press are concerned, I have already responded. I am in no way trying to prevent the freedom of the Finnish press. Not in any way. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u12	Mr President! Prime Minister, during the last parliamentary term, you were among the Members of Parliament who were concerned about the generosity of Yle's funding. I remember that at the end of the last parliamentary term you came out with a proposal to freeze the Yle index. It was at the beginning of the parliamentary term that a decision had been taken to freeze the one-off index, and it was agreed that it would remain one time. During this parliamentary term, your government has pushed through and, as a result of the work of the working party, a parliamentary agreement has been reached that the Yle index will be frozen for several years. This means cutting Yle's funding. While this is the background to the public debate and the suspicion that you have influenced Yle's editorial content and that Yle will bend in front of your communications and resolve the contents under your pressure
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u13	Madam President! This speech by the representative also contained a serious claim that I would interfere with Yle's contents. As I have said many times in this connection, my own criticism to Yle was merely that, in accordance with the rules of journalism, it is my right to be heard in my own case in connection with the case. That's all it's about. As far as the financing of Yle is concerned, it is up to Parliament to decide, and it has also been a parliamentary committee during this parliamentary term, and all decisions have been taken in this committee. In no way will the government interfere with this issue of financing for Yle. There's no way we're going to interfere. As parliamentarians, we have the right to express our own views on this issue. I have not presented them during this parliamentary term, because I am now on this side of the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u14	Mr President! Finland is still a model of freedom of expression. That is why the messages that have been made today with the Prime Minister's harsh criticism to the Broadcaster cannot and must not be swept under the carpet. Universal radio, which is maintained with tax money, is a crown jewel of freedom of expression. All Finns are owners of YLE. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister Sipilä, if you did not want to silence, will influence the news, why did you send such loud messages to the reporter during the dark hours of the evening, and why do you believe that journalists and journalists have come under the impression that they have been pressured?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u15	Madam President! All in all, this chain of messages concerned only the fact that I considered it my right to be heard in connection with the case, because in this case, too, there was a serious claim, serious criticism, and according to the rules of journalism, I would have been entitled to be heard. In this time window, which was sent by e-mail, there was no way that it was possible. Journalists well know that the prime minister is best caught by contacting the assistants, by texting them or by calling them. E-mail is a very ill-functioning tool. Personally, I don't like people going through e-mails at meetings. That is what this was all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u16	Mr President! First of all, for the sake of clarity, we Greens have no doubt that you, Prime Minister, have abused your position in the Terrafame decision. We have no doubt that you have sought the benefits of this for yourself or for your relatives. It is for this purpose that the freezing rules exist, so that all this kind of doubt will be dispelled, and if there has been an error in this decision, it certainly can be corrected. But we are now concerned about this media debate that has arisen. We agree that Yle's position in Finland must be maintained strong. Yle also plays a role in the supervision of our decision-makers. I would have asked whether you had a discussion in the government about how, in this situation, the status of Yle can be safeguarded, the independence of Yle and the image that has now been created, that the government could somehow influence Yle's contents, would be overcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u17	Madam President! Under no circumstances will the Government attempt or be able to influence the content of Yle's programmes. Nor does Yle need the confidence of the government, the individual minister or the Prime Minister. You don't work on it. Yle acts as a completely independent journalistic producer and as a good one from now on. We have no doubt about this, not within the government, personally, that this is not the case from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u18	President! It would be truly amazing if the Prime Minister were able to jump the public service company. This is something I cannot believe, of course, but the editor-in-chief has come to the fore, who has used the authority of the editor-in-chief to intervene as a supervisor in the work of some of his subordinates, to which he has a duty and a right on the basis of his position. He hasn't done what Mao did in Chinese, which is to give flowers to all flowers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u19	Madam President! Of course it doesn't. The presentations of the Satos Group are proceeding as they stand. That included, among other things, transferring Yle's funding outside the spending limits, and we have a commitment to do so within the government. In the next spending limits debate, this goes beyond the spending limits, as was the guidance of the working group to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u20	Mr President! It is very important that we hold this debate here today. We are faced with serious and fundamental issues. As has been emphasised in many of the speeches, it is a question of public confidence in YLE, the independence of YLE, but also of what the Prime Minister sees as his role in relation to the media. There is nothing strange about the fact that there is news in a free democracy of a connection like the Terrafame project. Instead, it is strange that we get to read in the papers, as is the case today, that a former editor of Yle has said that cases have been suspended and censored and journalists have been given warnings, especially during this government. Prime Minister! How do you comment on this argument? As Prime Minister, how do you intend to restore public confidence in YLE? And are you prepared to publish the exchange of information between you and the editor-in-chief of the Finnish Broadcasting Company in order to dispel any suspicions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u21	Madam President! Here, of course, some of the questions are an internal matter for Yle. Under no circumstances are we trying to influence the government or individual people, as ministers, to avoid publishing a case. But here about four weeks ago there was an example: Yle reports that I have failed to declare my income. In my opinion, such a question is the right to call Yle and tell him that this is not the case and to ask that it be corrected. This is the kind of interaction we are talking about. And the same was true of this. In my opinion, even in this Terrafame case, the ice cream case, it would have been a right to be heard before the case is published. But as a result of this and after several discussions, I have come to the conclusion that I am no longer in contact with journalists and journalists in cases involving me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u22	Mr President! After all, this is a very serious question because we parliamentarians have only one credibility and the same applies, of course, to the Prime Minister. In that respect, it can be said that it is a question of Parliament's confidence that we parliamentarians also act in a way that the general public considers fair and right. It is particularly dangerous in this debate if other countries draw the conclusion that the Prime Minister of Finland tries to exert pressure and even demand That is why I would ask you, Prime Minister, whether you feel at all that you should now strive to ensure that this is not a government radio but a parliamentary radio.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u23	Madam President! No matter how many speeches I make, I am sure that I will not convince the opposition that I have not pushed Yle. I have demanded my right to be heard in the same context as the case is being carried out, within a time frame which will also enable us to sort it out in practice. This one-and-a-half hour could have been spent on what the order of business in question was. After all, everything had been done before we took any decisions in the Committee of Ministers on Economic Policy, binding contracts and so on. This too can be found on Terrafame’s website and can be read by everyone there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u24	Mr President! Let us take another point of view for this debate. Prime Minister Sipilä, you were asked yesterday at the press conference whether this is harming Finland's reputation, and you replied: "There is no doubt there is no harm to Finland's reputation for this". The international media have been reporting on the pressure surge of Prime Minister Sipilä. The Financial Times writes about the corruption scandal, the BBC writes about the freedom of speech dispute, and Dagens Nyheter writes that the Finnish Prime Minister silenced the state media. The President-in-Office of the Council has today said that Finland's reputation as a leading country of freedom of speech has been hit by Sipilä. Prime Minister Sipilä, do you still believe that your actions have not damaged Finland's reputation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u25	Madam President! Yeah, because I haven't pushed Yle. All I've been asking for is my right to comment on the case, which means no.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u26	One more time, Minister Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u30	Mr President! I am referring to what Mr Haavisto said earlier here, and I would also point out that when Mr Rehn was speaking here, as if in a somewhat guilty tone, about the opposition that asked about this issue, I would like to remind you that the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, also required clarification on this matter. But this is no longer a question of the issue of the freeze itself, and no one has denied that the Prime Minister is entitled to his own view or that he cannot be in touch,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u31	Madam President! Independent communication also involves hearing parties, doing fact-based stories and reporting, and if there is a mistake in reporting, then there is a right to intervene and the news is corrected. I believe that this is part of this Finnish democracy and freedom of expression, on the one hand and the other, and I believe that this working connection is also behind Finland's number one position, that we also have a dialogue with each other all the time. I believe and hope that this will continue from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u32	Minister Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u33	Madam President! I would like to say this with reference to Mr Lindtman's speech that I have no doubt that these relations raised had anything to do with or have any bearing on the Terrafame decision. In addition, I said that I thought I was clear, and I had discussed it with the Prime Minister that, since there has been such a debate on the subject, this will certainly become clear. But I believe, as Minister Rehn described this case of Terrafame, that the Prime Minister has not been hindered here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u34	Next question, Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u35	Mr President! Even if the Minister The brick is not here, and I will ask this question anyway, because this is of particular importance to the State. It was not long before the Metsähallitus Act was adopted, when a notification came from Metsähallitus Metsätalous Oy about the Yt-procedure and long lay-offs for all loggers. And when the Metsähallitus Act was discussed in this Chamber too, I recall that the Prime Minister, among other things, felt that nothing would change. However, the promotion of employment has been recognised as a social obligation of Metsähallitus Metsätalous Oy. Prime Minister, how will the lay-off of workers contribute to employment and is this how the government's employment objective will be achieved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u36	Mr Tiilikainen is certainly not here, so let us return to the subject next week if he happens to be there. This question is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u37	Next question, Congressman Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u39	Mr President! Indeed, the MinTC's proposal, which is currently under discussion, has not been further discussed or outlined in the Board of Directors. The consultation will be held and the government will then discuss the matter in its normal order. I believe that in all situations we must ensure that both residents and businesses in the archipelago are well placed to survive and develop. This has not primarily been on the agenda for austerity reasons, but is part of the reform of the LVM, and we will go through this very carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u42	It is indeed the same situation that Minister Berner is not here, so I am sure that we will come back to this as well next time he is. This question is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u43	Next question, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u44	Madam President! Tens of thousands of Finns stand on bread lines every week. Almost 400,000 citizens have a default mark. The largest group of people with defaults are men between the ages of 25 and 44. Imagine, men of the best working age. There is a need for a thorough study of what causes people to get into the spiral of exclusion and clear solutions to how to prevent this and how to help them get back on their feet. I would like to ask the minister responsible: does the government know what causes exclusion and how the government is dealing with the poverty problem that has been laundered in our country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u45	Madam President! I'll answer for myself. Mr Laukkanen draws attention to these so-called NEET young people, who fall outside all education and working life. A few weeks ago, the government has had an in-depth debate on this issue and has come to the conclusion that we are looking at all the measures that each administrative sector has, we are putting them together and then we are wondering what else we can do because this is a big concern. Twenty percent of young men fall and have fallen outside of society. This is a big problem. We have recognised this and we want to intervene in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u46	This is a subject which falls within the remit of several ministers, so I would ask those Members who wish to put questions to the ministers present here to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u47	Madam President! During the last government term, a Youth Guarantee was introduced, which has been an effective instrument for preventing and preventing the exclusion of young people. Today, funding for this work has been significantly reduced and funding for youth workshops and outreach youth work has been cut. The Government is also ending the competence programme for young adults and reducing vocational education and training. These are exactly the kind of activities that have been invested in, and they usually come back many times over. I would like to ask the minister responsible: by what means does the government intend to reduce the threat of social exclusion for young people, which is increasing to an increasing extent?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u48	Mr President! It seems that the representative has some outdated information here, namely that in the context of the budget debate, the government specifically secured the funding of workshops, outreach youth work and the skills programme for young adults. And, for example, this latter skills programme for young adults is a good way to influence young people in their 20s who, for example, have not completed their education to complete their secondary education. There has been quite a cause for concern here, what the questioner had on top of this exclusion of young people: it is a very difficult and very painful problem in our society, which requires a wide variety of solutions and new solutions to replace those who already exist. It is the boys who are particularly concerned, because we see that very early developments are beginning to take place that lead to, for example, lower learning outcomes for boys, more exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u49	Mr President! Kela has made a statement that if a person who has received too much support also receives income support, he or she will not be directly recovered from these overpaid subsidies, but will be placed directly in credit default-marked recovery. This is even the case if the overpayment was due, for example, to a mistake made by a Kela official. In other words, because of a mistake made by the authority, a poor person loses his credit information automatically when in our society it is usually possible to negotiate debt and agree on different debt payment schedules. This cannot be considered reasonable in any way and is one of the key causes of exclusion. I would like to ask what we are going to do about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u50	Mr President! Thank you for the question. It is unfortunate, of course, if someone falls into a situation of involuntary and many problems, such as credit marking, as the questioner pointed out, or if it is due to such mistakes that can be corrected. I hope that discussions will take place with the relevant and relevant civil servants, and that efforts will be made to find better practices to help these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u51	Madam President! The Guarantee Foundation, which helps over-indebtedness, has reported that people are asking for help in their situation more and more because quick levers have been taken into ordinary everyday expenses, such as food and medicines. This is very worrying information, and so is the fact that a few weeks ago, the Consumer Parliament published a report which showed that the people with the highest incomes and high incomes are suffering from government increases in payments to medicines and self-responsible travel costs, and so were the increases in customer fees. Much of these people had had to compromise on drugs or food to survive. The question is: are you aware of these reports by the government and have you considered whether you could start to make a different assessment of the decision in the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u52	Mr President! Yes, there is certainly an impact assessment in the legislative work. It is also important that we maintain basic safety nets. You brought up the drugs. We have a lot of people who are taking drugs, for whom it is important that there is a roof of medicine. Perhaps there are those who are unable, able and unable to apply for the income support they are entitled to. And yes, the government's key projects contain studies on what is, for example, the situation of those living alone, and of course such a debate on it is quite appropriate, and perhaps more extensive work, as is the case with the poverty group in Parliament, which is the everyday life of those living alone in Finland at the moment, which is the everyday life of the low-income. I'm quite ready for that conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u53	Värderade Talman! Den au thoritiesen har anknytningar till ungdomsarbetslösheten som är ett stort problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u54	Madam President! I would like to thank the questioner for approaching this problem in a solution-oriented way and for bringing up his own idea. I've been getting to know each other. We are about to have a mid-term review next spring, in which we will of course look at what has already been decided, at how they have worked, at new ways, and in that debate we will probably go through all those ideas — I have said many times that I am very receptive to all good ideas, no matter who comes from, because this unemployment is such a problem that it is not only in the arms of this government but also in the arms of the next government. That's why I'm so happy to greet all these openings. It is a different matter than what the government takes into its toolbox, but, in any case, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment are such challenges that they really need to be done with concrete measures and actions, and the government has already done them, but this is not, of course, the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u55	Mr President! The government is not the strongest now when it comes to children's and young people's issues and exclusion. In fact, the government has cut more than half of the funds that the previous government put in, among other things, this knowledge programme for young adults, which was the apple of Minister Ihalainen and the signatory, and it was a success, and it specifically targeted young people between the ages of 20 and 24, especially men. You have also reduced the equality allowance, which was targeted specifically at the weakest children and young people with learning difficulties, more teachers, school assistants and so on. Yesterday a Social Democratic Education Policy Programme was announced. I'm just gonna read one thing here...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u56	Mr President! I must say, however, that I believe that in this Chamber we all have quite common objectives to minimise, reduce, prevent, combat exclusion and exclusion from education and work, and we must find the most effective means to do so. One of the means that is now being widely taken forward is these Ohjaamo services, where the aim is for young people to be helped with their problems on a one-stop-shop, to genuinely catch and take responsibility for young people, and to find the way that this person would work. A lot of good things were done during the previous government term, where the youth guarantee was promoted. The problem was that the number of young people not in education and employment continued to increase during the previous government. That is why we must now look for the most effective means, and this work also draws on the research knowledge we have, the different types of information on the effectiveness of various activities, and seeks to find very many ministries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u57	Madam President! The new CEO of Kela, Elli Aaltonen, gave a wide-ranging interview to Suomen Kuvalehti, asking why we maintain a system that pays people to be, and he also talked about free unemployment security. I have received a great deal of contact from unemployed people who thought this statement was amazing and incriminating. In particular, they were surprised at the claim that social security would be free of charge. For example, unemployment benefit involves a lot of karens, if you do not apply for guided training, for example, you do not apply for work placements. Such a myth exists that unemployment benefit would be free of charge. I would like to ask the Minister: is the Director-General of Kela, Elli Aaltonen, right when he claims that our unemployment benefit and social security are free of charge?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u58	Madam President! I don't really understand the question. It should certainly be presented to the CEO of Kela himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u62	Madam President! I am talking about the same thing as Mr Arhinmäki, but quite the opposite. Aaltonen, the new CEO of Kela, and Heikki Hiilamo, Professor of Social Policy at the University of Helsinki, have spoken in favour of inclusive social security in public performances. The idea is that, for example, a long-term unemployed young person at risk of exclusion would be offered participation in voluntary organisations, assistance for the elderly and similar work activities, which would be relevant both to himself, to his/her immediate community and to Finnish society as a whole. This would not be a job, this would be a work activity, for example, three days a week, two hours at a time. Mr Mattila, what do you think, could we try this in exactly the same way as the basic income is being tested?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u63	Mr President! I may not equate this directly with basic income, but this government programme has included a culture of experimentation in this. I'm a fan of an experimental society myself. Of course, participation in society, the fact that a person, a citizen, belongs and feels that he is part of society, is important. And what means are available? This may be one, but there are certainly many others. The child feels that he is part of the school community where he is. A young person feels he's on his way to a safe life, a safe adult life. Participation of all ages is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u64	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz said that this would not be work; this would be work, this would be inclusive and people would feel that they belonged to something. Personally, I am in favour of such a thing, but once we as a government have brought in the recruitment experiment, we are bringing in the model of the training agreement, these are very sensitive subjects for discussion, because there must be rules of the game for all of them. And those rules of the game must be such that everyone understands that it does not exploit a person but helps a person. That's the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u65	Madam President! In the case of both young girls and boys, the development of exclusion is based on a lack of education and vocational education and training is extremely important for young people to enter the labour market. Unfortunately, the government is now cutting 190 million in the coming year from this vocational education and training. In their own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have called for its restoration, in particular because the reform legislation on vocational education and training will then enter into force in 2018. Does the Minister in charge see the danger of hasty cuts in vocational education and training being closed down, among other things? I have raised the concern here before that a 16-year-old person in Eastern and Northern Finland currently has the longest journey to a secondary education place. If these offices continue to be closed, these distances will increase and it is very possible that the development of social exclusion for young people will start from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u66	Mr President! Ensuring accessibility and ensuring equal opportunities throughout Finland is one of the most important things we do in government education policy. On the vocational education and training side, the big problem is suspension, which means it is a serious problem. We have a month of education, and every person who has completed his primary school gets a place in practice today and in the future, but the problem is that there are so many people left behind. This reform of vocational education and training is now being used to respond to it, among other things, by increasing learning in the workplace, because it is more attractive to many young people and, in a way, it is hoped that they will be able to learn at hand and in practice. Then the second is the reform of the financing model for vocational education and training, so that there is also greater responsibility for the completion of that training and for the completion of the secondary qualification which will then significantly improve the position of people in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u67	Madam President! There are currently 400,000 default marking marks for citizens in Finland. We have a very large group of young adults who receive a payment default marking via instant debits. The quick-jump companies are circumventing the law that was passed by the Parliament here in 2013. However, the arrangement was still amended so that the limit of 2000 now gives smaller parts. But the worst thing about this is that the young person with a history of default is out of society. He doesn't get bank IDs, he doesn't get a cell phone, he's kind of shutting him out of this society framework, and he's gone missing. I would ask the Minister or the ministers what measures the government is taking to ensure that there is no year-to-year dumping of default marking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u68	Minister Lindström first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u69	Madam President! Indeed, these problems are known by the Ministry of Justice. There will be an account of these issues, and when this report becomes more precise about this current situation and these policy options, then, of course, measures will be decided. I recognize these problems. Payment disruptions can even cause people to be subject to enforcement, among other things. On the enforcement side, too, we have identified this incentive trap problem and we are going to do something about it, either by raising the protective part of the enforcement, or by extending the payment period. These measures are pending in the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u70	Mr President! Completed by Minister Lindström's response to the question of obtaining bank credentials is that here this concern, raised by Mrs Myllykoski, is precisely that as many as 400,000 people are without it. But now this autumn, here in Parliament, a law has been discussed that allows everyone to have access to a basic bank account, and when they have access to its basic bank account, they will also have access to the banking credentials, which means that these young people, many of whom are here, will also be able to make a strong identification when using electronic services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u71	Mr. Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u72	Mr President! Many young people, men and women alike, have already been long - term unemployed despite their young age. Now, with the regional reform, it is planned to transfer the Employment and Economic Development Offices and Elys to regional growth centres. Changes are also being made to the criteria. Before the employment funds were allocated according to the unemployment rate, the criteria are now the number of employed persons and the number of enterprises and unemployment rates taken into account only as a small part. We know that there is a lot of unemployment in Eastern and Northern Finland in particular. Is it not quite wrong to change these conditions for employment appropriations so that they will continue to be less targeted at regions where unemployment is the highest and there are fewer alternative opportunities? Should unemployment appropriations not be allocated precisely on the basis of where the unemployment rate is highest?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u73	Madam President! Honestly, the questioner is right in the sense that these criteria have, of course, caused us to have a debate in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. We will probably clarify them here before we go on with these things, because this is not to make life more difficult, but to make it easier. The second point is that, just today, when we are going through the distribution of employment appropriations for next year and the changes that have come there, new tools will be coming in there — hopefully on the extension of the scope of this unemployment benefit to pay subsidies. One word I would like to emphasise in this connection is effectiveness. All the measures we take must be effective. And unfortunately, with the scarce resources, we must be critical of measures that are not so effective. That is why, among other things, this 100% wage subsidy has been under the bone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u74	Next question, Congressman Rossi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u75	Madam President! As Finland’s most important anniversary, i.e. Independence Day, approaches, all Finns deserve congratulations and thanks. The veterans of our wars in particular and the generation that has built this country deserve those thanks. It is excellent that the Sipilä Government as a whole has supported the rehabilitation of veterans, the services to be taken home, so that for the first time in a quarter of a century there will be a tangible increase in appropriations. The ageing population needs more support. This is a great line. Mr President! I wonder how we can guarantee that this aid will also be delivered in such a way that the municipalities will not return the funds, as has been the case in some years, especially in large cities. The State Treasury has announced that the first statement will come in January, earlier than before, but there seems to be still no guidance. Well, how do we make sure of that?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u76	Madam President! At the time when the budget was compiled and a significant increase of approximately EUR 40 million comes to the open and institutional rehabilitation of veterans, this has been reported from both the Ministry and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities to the airport. Since then, guidance has been prepared in cooperation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the State Office that when the day comes when the Parliament has closed the budget, very detailed instructions will be sent to the municipalities. The representative referred to some major cities. I am aware that those municipalities that have returned, i.e. not all the money, have been specifically contacted and tried through this way 1) to ensure that every euro is spent, and 2) to ensure that the message that has been the will of Parliament, that every veteran gets his rehabilitation, can come true.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u77	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u78	Mr President! Just as Mr Rossi has pointed out, this is a very important question about the veterans of our wars and their support, rehabilitation and services to be taken home. There has been a great deal of feedback on this, namely, indeed, about the money that they might receive, which is going to come back very much. 40 million is a large amount of money that the government has now promised over the next three years, and that is a great thing, and it has also been provisionally discussed among the parliamentary groups that the adequacy of the budget will also be ensured next year. But I ask: this money and this support cannot, however, be used to hire people, and it is a major problem that there are not enough people there who are targeting veterans with this support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u79	Madam President! In the preparation of this rehabilitation package, we have heard very carefully what veterans’ organizations have wanted. For example, on the government side, we would have been prepared to remove the border between open and institutional rehabilitation, but veteran organisations have considered it important that this border should remain. The way in which, for example, open rehabilitation is carried out at a practical everyday level, yes, local government-specific variations, local government-specific alternatives are permitted and even desirable. What is essential is that the proper service of a veteran is provided with the euro that now exists. We therefore have a number of ways, and this is not just communication. In January, we are to ensure that cooperation between municipalities, veterans' organisations and public authorities is organised:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u80	Mr President! Our veterans are certainly concerned by the recent findings of the National Defence Information Board published today, according to which the will to defend our young people, under the age of 34, has fallen very heavily. It would be good to have further research into the root causes. I personally believe that youth unemployment can be one element that leads down that will. It is dangerous if our young people no longer feel that Finland is such a good country that it is worth defending. Unemployment creates insecurity and discourages people. Many young people have fallen into the outer edges of our society, its darkness and its slackness. My question is: what are you going to do about this serious matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u81	Mr President! I fully agree that more research and information is certainly needed as to which factors are behind it, why it seems that the will of the Finnish people to defend the country, especially in young age groups, is deteriorating. We all have responsibility for Finland and the country, and next year will be the 100th anniversary of Finland's independence. I think that the President of the Republic, Sauli Niinistö, raised these strengths in Finland a couple of days ago, for what reasons and all the factors we can be proud of as Finns in our own country, and I hope that this anniversary will be taken together in accordance with the theme, that it will also strengthen the desire to defend the common fatherland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u82	Madam President! Indeed, the will to defend the country in this last MTS study had decreased by as much as 7 percentage points with a margin of error of good 3 per cent, so it is also statistically significant. Last time there was such a big drop in 1988. That is why this reason needs to be clarified, and the National Defence College is launching a study on the will to defend the country, which will see what people understand today with this will to defend the country, and then we can draw conclusions from each one of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u83	Madam President! My original question was about veterans and the rehabilitation of veterans, services to be taken home. Minister, I would also like to ask what action is being taken with regard to the spouses of veterans. There are many widows, elderly women, elderly people who need services even without veterans. The government is in the process of making decisions that can also contribute to the status of spouses, and in this respect we are on the right track. Today there is no big difference between having a veteran on the front or home. It is also, to a large extent, an ageing group of women, the spouses of veterans. I would like to ask you, Mr President, how they can also be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u84	Madam President! As the questioner said, an ageing person also needs services: open services, services to be taken home. We have this legislation, in which the warring, experienced generation of oak leaves has been a special group to take care of. Over the years, legislation has been taken in that direction, even next year, and, for example, these guidelines, which have now been sent to the field, are linked to the fact that in carrying out the rehabilitation of a veteran, the spouse and his/her situation must also be taken into account, his/her status. This increase in appropriations will enable us to hope that things will be seen in a flexible way in the field. But then the big thing is that the generation of veterans is the generation with its own legislation, and they are now being tried to take such good care of, for example, rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u85	This question is closed. — — — — Let us hope that next week there will be more ministers present to answer questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u86	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 28/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u87	Mr President! There is a government proposal that a reduction in forest gifts for the generation of farm changes be introduced when a gift tax is paid in connection with the generation change. In this respect, the deduction is made from the capital income of forestry, as in this case from the sales income of wood. The right to deduct depends on the tax value and area of the forest. The Government also suggests that this decision will result in an annual reduction of approximately EUR 18 million in taxes on the capital income of forestry. Mr President! There are a number of problems with this government proposal, and I would like to say at the outset that I cannot support it. With regard to State resources, the SDP has put forward a number of shortcomings which should have been the subject of a proper debate. First of all, let us start with the fact that the economic benefits of the reduction in forest gifts have not been demonstrated or have been found to be at least moderate, because it is directed at such a small number — that is, a very small number of people. The reduction became extremely complex and administratively burdensome. From the point of view of equal treatment, the reduction is also problematic because it is only targeted at forest land and only at donations from forest land that exceed a certain retail size. Nor has it been possible to verify the economic benefits. It must then be said that at the same time we are locking up forest property for the very present family of owners who, then, in connection with the generation change, can, through the gift reduction, make this same country inherit, and, of course, this is where the same ownership is concentrated for those who already have these forest plots in the family. As a result of this proposal, it has been estimated that the prices of forest plots will increase. Mr President! One reason for this deduction has been that there is justification for a reduction in the fact that it would increase the supply of wood, since the benefit would only be obtained if the taxable person had income from the forest. The main answer to this argument is to assess whether the trade in wood is going to be good or bad. I did a quick Google search. As a congressman, when you can't control everything, I thought maybe some lobbying organization will tell you whether the timber trade is going to be good or bad. 20.9. At one seminar, both the MTK and the forest industry have praised how well the timber trade is going to be. That is why this argument that a reduction in forest gifts is needed to facilitate the trade in wood seems to be quite lame, at least as quickly as the public debate on the promotion of the supply of timber trade is being followed up. And it is good to say that, in any case, the demand for wood is increasing because of investments in bioeconomy, for example, so it is strange that we should be subsidising the price of wood in this case. The sale of wood must be encouraged by reasonable forest taxation. We can now ask what is reasonable forest taxation, with this proposal, which does not have much positive effect on the long-term objectives. As Social Democrats, we have proposed an overall reform of forest taxation, which would ensure the availability of affordable raw materials for the forest industry, and we also wanted this very complex present forest taxation to be further clarified and the reduction in forest gifts to be further complicated. That is why it is very justified that the government should now deal with the problems of forest taxation and submit a proposal to Parliament for forest taxation, which would simplify and clarify this forest taxation rather than the other way round. In the same context, we also suggest that the government corrects the shortcomings in forest management. Mr President! To conclude, the reduction in forest gifts is literally a gift from the government to the holders of large forest holdings. According to MTK, more than two thirds of forest owners do not benefit from the reduction at all. Is this fair politics? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u88	Mr President! It is good that this long-standing and expected change to facilitate the generation of forest farms is now acceptable to Parliament. The inheritance tax and gift tax constitute a considerable burden on forestry — I can say it as being somewhat familiar with forestry. In southern Finland, too, the tree grows from 60 to 80 years, in Lapland from 100 to 200 years, and in southern Finland it is possible to pay three times the inheritance tax or gift tax every generation. In addition, historically forestry has been burdened with a wealth tax, a transfer tax. I think this reform is excellent. I now agree with Mr Kiuru that this limit of hectares should be lower — I understand that Mr Kiuru is in favour of extending this allowance to smaller farms as well. The use of this forest gift reduction is quite difficult. It requires a very plentiful set of trees. That argument made in the government proposal and in the report of the Committee on Finance — that this could bring back up to 72 % of the gift tax paid in full in the form of income tax relief — is not true. In normal circumstances, this will reach perhaps 20-30% of the gift tax paid. This is very difficult to use, it is done after all the income cuts and requires very close tax planning if the forest owner is to benefit from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u89	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Finance on the government's proposal for legislation on the reduction of forest gifts has now finally been submitted to us for adoption. Just as Mr Kiviranta described the complexity and difficulty of this forest tax reform, that is true. And it is also true that this is missing the big view of extending this forest gift allowance to smaller farms — that is also true. However, it was known that something must be done about this problem, because we have a big problem here that large forest farms are splitting up into smaller and smaller forest farms in Finland, and this causes that profitable forestry is directly proportional to that area of the forest farm. If we go to very small, fragmented forest plots, it will be very, very difficult to carry out profitable forestry. Making a reasonable baker in such an area or finding and managing sensible treatments is becoming more and more expensive. Sweden is one thousand times ahead of Finland in this regard: they have taken this into account in their own tax legislation a long time ago, and there the structure of forests, the average size of forest farms is much higher than in Finland. The fact that Sweden has done better on this issue is beyond our control, but we could take a little more of this as an example. As far as these practical benefits of a reduction in forest gifts are concerned, of course, the aim is to get the timber trade going, so to speak, from these so-called dormant farms. The problem in Finland is that if this issue is not addressed, that forest farms are passed on to younger generations, it will ultimately result in the creation of heirs as a result of natural development and then the generation of heirs is a legal entity which, in principle, very often cements that nothing happens on the farm. At worst, the condition falls into a princess’s rosy sleep, and then it is sometimes awakened if there is, or even in the next generation, an active person interested in the use of forests or the management of forests. So that's the kind of lock it's gonna lock. Although this bill may not now be optimal as a law for the rapid growth of forest farms, this is nevertheless a decisive step in the right direction. We must make available these unused forests of forest property lying in heirs and deathbeds. We must remember that we have an objective of increasing the use of stemwood quite clearly in both the pulp and sawmill industries, but also a huge increase is coming, according to the information that has just been received, on these European Union rules on the use of renewable energy. On that side, huge opportunities are opened up to mobilise renewable energy. And all the means that support this goal must be put in place. I warmly support Mr Kiviranta's wish to involve these smaller farms. It may, and it will, be the responsibility of the next government — no matter how it is done. In time, we had in force in Finland, until 93, the area taxation of forests, and I vividly remember that it was extremely difficult when I was a forester, when I filled out the tax returns, when doing the advice. It was extremely difficult. At the time it was said that two people were perfectly involved in forest taxation in Finland. And according to my memory, when another person moved to better bakers' lands through natural removal, there was only one person left who had complete control of this forest taxation. Apparently, that representative Esko Kiviranta is just like that, in his own history, as a strong Finnish forester and professional: he still knows how to tax it, probably today. It was symbolic of the form of taxation that everyone then used the argument that this highly complex area taxation absolutely needs to be eliminated and precisely because it was very unfair because it increased earned income so much that the tax progression ate most of the benefit of the forest. And then, when we went to sales taxation, it has also caused certain problems, but it is clear-cut and based on the relationship between revenue and expenditure and its own accounting obligation. That's a very good goal. In my opinion, a very difficult situation was put into a reasonably manageable situation. Even that tax system is not perfect, but the comfort for all of us is that those tax systems are hardly ever perfected in any country. Mr President! Finally, the representative Krista Kiuru just made a very strong speech about the fact that she had visited the website to get to know the situation, that is, that the trade in wood is going to take place. At least this bill, as far as last autumn's situation is concerned, has not even had any effect on the timber trade situation when this is not even in force, and it seems that the final points in the ministry were still being filed when this inquiry had been made. But in any case, when this fragmentation of forest farms is prevented, it leads to a long run that the timber trade is going to be better and that sleeping facilities may also be included in logging activities. The second is this — when Mr Kiuru argued that this would not affect the long-term use of forests in Finland: well, it is this bill that seeks to do so. There are weaknesses here, precisely this exclusion from small farms, but there must be hope that, when the work starts, it will also lead to a situation on the whole forestry side where the owners of forest farms would take this situation into account when they are already doing their own tax planning, while living. There are other ways to deal with this inheritance, so that it will not be dealt with after a person leaves this time, but it could be handled in style, in advance with reasonable tax planning, and here is one way to do so. I wish this legislative proposal and this report, when it is ready, a good success and I also hope that in the future those small farms will benefit from a little better, given the tax issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u90	Mr President! In response to Mrs Kiuru's speech, I would first of all like to say that this is a good outcome of a long process. When I was a minister, I already accepted this study group's proposal, and now it has been concluded in Parliament and legislation has been adopted which will allow for an increase in the size of forest holdings, possibly also more generational change of forest farms and encourage them to do so. Representative Krista Kiuru stated that this guarantees that it will remain in the same family. The representative Krista Kiuru, when a forest farm is collected, will also be held by the same family. This is a question of increasing the size and speed of forest farms, because the average age of owners of forest farms is very high. Forest taxation must certainly be clarified, but the criteria are good at the moment. Mr Kiuru also spoke about the neglect of forest management, and I say,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u91	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen recalled the old forest taxation and that it was so complex that only two experts understood forest taxation at the time. That's not exactly what happened. It was so complicated that only two understood but they could not explain it but then there were two politicians who did not understand but could explain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u92	Mr President! Mr Hokkonen referred to the fact that the uplifting of the timber trade, which is in itself a good thing, is not directly linked to this law, which is only now coming to us for discussion. In fact, I would like to turn the question so that if and now the timber trade has been stimulated enough, I wonder if we currently have real resources in Finland to implement this forestry gift reduction reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u93	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, it is a good thing that the positive attitude is in the government's proposal and certainly has positive effects. But I would like to remind you whether, in the preparation of this law, it has been considered that this will cause market failure in the timber market. The recipient of the gift is in a more favourable position than the rest of the forest owner. We can sell the forest with a smaller profit and still get bigger money from that store. In my opinion, this is already a constitutionally unequal situation for those with forests and now for those who inherit the forest. They're in a different position at the point of sale. In that sense, this may lead to lower prices for the timber trade for industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u94	Mr President! Forest owners who have trees to sell and those who do not have trees are also disadvantaged. But, Mr President, there was a report on energy and climate policy here a few days ago and, if that strategy is to be implemented, it is clear that demand for wood will increase. It is quite clear, of course, that the government will have to create the conditions, how we can expand the use of forests and trade in timber. Therefore, when we know that about one third of Finland's private forests are unused because they are owned by people who do not necessarily need to be used and in order to make this reserve available in the years to come, something must be done. In that expectation, this decision is very good. You have to remember that in order to get this advantage, you have to sell wood, and when you sell wood, it produces wood.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, would that be enough at this point? — Well, it is not enough, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u96	Mr President! Indeed, this bill, which has now taken the form of a report, is indeed a structural reform and I welcome it with great joy. It is indeed the case that these premises, mentioned by Mrs Kalli, which have been asleep in Princess Rose's sleep for decades, must be awakened. After all, when this law comes into effect and comes into force, it is likely that many farms will come within the scope of this timber trade and activity in society will take place. That is a very good thing. And you have to remember that when the structure of the forest farms has been twisted, slowly going in the wrong direction, this is the way to correct it. It is now clear that neither in a year nor in two years nor probably in ten years there will be a miracle. As far as Mr Zyskowicz's four gentlemen, four of them, two of them forest experts, are concerned, with taxes that were silent on the subject, I am not one of them either, but, unfortunately, during my current political career, I have noticed that the experts who pretend to know are far too many.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u97	Ladies and gentlemen! The following representatives have asked for answers: Heinonen, Kiviranta, Leppä, Kiuru and Aalto. If there is still a point to be made after that, the person who gave birth to this debate will have a reply. - Oh, well, Uotila again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u98	Mr President! I am trying to say that it does not give rise to any further need for a reply, but I have to say that, in some way, this sort of jealousy was felt by Mr Kiuru, the new head of finance in the SDP. Our country is particularly troubled at the moment by the fact that, for example, we do not find new successors to companies, because we have a system so heavy in these generational changes that it often ends up being sold abroad, or that the company is shutting down. The same problem also exists with our agricultural and forestry holdings — and also with the fact that they are becoming even more fragmented. There is no point in being jealous at all, but, for example, Mr Kiuru should take the example of Sweden, where, under the leadership of his brother's party, the inheritance tax was abolished altogether. And what happened there after that is worth getting to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u99	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski here, I find it quite surprising that these people who have the opportunity to use this deduction from income tax to sell wood below the market price. They have paid a full gift tax for their forest gift, and surely they want to get a full market price when they sell wood so that I do not believe in any possibility of market failure. Then there's been a lot of fun talking about who understood the area tax. There is little point in talking about it now, because it has not been applied since 2005, but that was quite an easy thing to do. Then came the completed papers, how much tax you pay each year and did not necessarily need to know much about it. Instead, this forest gift reduction requires very precise tax planning, because it is the last deduction and must not exceed half of the capital income from forestry. And I'm telling you to the delegates who are having house nights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u100	Mr. Speaker! Forestry is an extremely large and long-term activity, a business activity, and this type of forest gift reduction has been applied for for for a long time, and now at last the first steps have been taken, that's all right. It is an excellent thing and is moving forward. When studies have been carried out on the reasons why forests are not sold, there is by far the greatest age, or age, of forest owners. Forest owners are very old, on average over 60 years old, and this also has its own impact on the fact that the age structure of forest owners is likely to fall slightly from this point of view, and it brings activity to the challenge of the bioeconomy and forestry that we currently have, because we need that particular activity in the forest. It is the only one who also brings money from the industry to employment and to our economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u101	Mr President! I thought it was a good thing. Kiviranta brought up this tax planning because it is a question of tax planning. We explain here, in the speeches of some Members of Parliament, that this gift, which is being discussed here, is particularly needed because the tree moves, but yes it is a gift of tens of millions to very wealthy people who have the opportunity to transfer forest farms to the next generation through generation change. If we are here to justify it because we make the tree move, which I think has been this argument, don't you think, then, of course, we should assess whether the tree is moving now and whether it is needed, and not who becomes jealous or who is not? I don't think that's a relevant question at all. Wood trade can be supported if wood is needed for movement, if this argument is met, but now it is rather the opposite when both the forest industry and the MTK themselves say that wood is moving well. Then the question is why this is being done. I have to confess to this. This fills in:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u102	Mr President! I hope that my response will not give rise to new responses, but it must be said that this proposal is contrary to both the government programme and the market economy. The Government's programme therefore sets out a broad tax base and low tax rates. Why do we make such new, correctly caged mothers, and complicate taxation even further so that only and only through really strict tax planning a very small proportion of the population may benefit from this? The market does set the price for wood, and when trade is hot and wood is moving well, why grant additional aid to promote trade in wood — especially when, according to expert estimates, there are no economic benefits available? In particular, I am turning my attention to the coalition: have you completely forgotten the market economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u103	Mr President! Actually, I like that little humorous attitude of representative Kiviranta. When it is said here from the right side that this is going to fix everything — the average age will probably fall for ten years, the average size will probably grow on half of the forest farms, the tree will start to rush — Mr Kiviranta says, in my opinion, that the project is bureaucratic, difficult to exploit, little against the market mechanism and only against large farms and large forest owners. I think these millions are going to go a little like Kankkula well, which taxpayers' money is being wasted on this as lost tax revenue. Forest taxation needs reform, but it really needs reform rather than tinkering for the benefit of some of the big forest owners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u104	Now I see that no more replies have been requested, not even by Mrs Hoskonen, who opened this debate, so we go to the list of speakers, and there Mr Heinonen, the actual list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u105	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, this is about the fact that we in Finland have faced challenges in terms of generational change, that is, that we are able to continue our business activities. Our successful companies have ceased their activities by failing to find a way to continue their business, or they have moved to foreign ownership, and the same challenges have been faced with farms and also with forest farms: the fact that forest farms have been fragmented in a significant way today. About a third of our forest owners lived outside the countryside about 20 years ago. Currently, almost half of the forest owners are urban residents. So by inheritance, the new forest owners are often such that they live in a different place from where that forest is. Forests also become fragmented and less well-managed, partly because they are small areas and their costs of management are higher than their profits. That is why I myself would like to see ways of combining these fragmented forest farms, for example, through some common forest model, so that we can get these forests for better professional and professional management. We also have many forest owners who do not even really know where those forests are today, and then it is easy for them not to be managed either. This reduction in forest gifts and this reduction model is precisely a means of encouraging these changes even before the inheritance phase, and a reduction in forest gifts will facilitate the generational exchange of farms. The objective, as has been mentioned in this debate, is to increase the size of forests and, above all, to promote entrepreneurship-like forestry, i.e. professional forest management, thereby also increasing the supply of wood. This has been estimated to increase the supply of forest holdings from about 1,400 to 3000 today, and the supply of wood is expected to increase from 1.2 to 1.4, some estimate up to 1.5 million cubic metres per year, i.e. significant impacts. But the owners and experts of larger forests have also highlighted and I agree with the challenges that exist here from the point of view of, among other things, these hectares and this bureaucracy. This works in such a way that smaller hectares in southern Finland allow this to happen and then the need to increase the number of hectares by the value of the forest. As this will increase the supply of wood, this will also have an impact on employment. In other words, this will also increase new work in this country, which is often needed at least from the centre of the hall and from the right. This is one such measure. In that debate, I pointed out that in Sweden, for example, inheritance tax was abolished in 2005 under the leadership of the Social Democrats. Norway followed the example in 2014. In the context of the abolition of inheritance tax, these countries have tightened the taxation of profits from inheritances, in other words, there are quite a few places where profits have turned to growth. I myself pointed that out here, and I hope that, without envy and populism, we too will be able to find out what would happen if, in line with the Swedish model, we gave up the inheritance tax. We have already decided that small inheritances can be obtained without inheritance tax. I think it would also be worth considering, from the point of view of work and jobs, the abolition of inheritance tax. I am quite convinced that once companies and agricultural and forestry farms were able to continue their activities, more jobs would be created in this country. And, in fact, if the inheritance tax were not to be paid in these generational changes, it would also enable new jobs and investment to be made, and it would make sense. So I personally hope that the model in this direction will be found out without prejudice and see what it will achieve. Sweden has achieved a good result, Norway has achieved a good result, and I personally believe that Finland should follow our Western neighbours here as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u106	Mr President! The reduction in inheritance and gift taxes is also on the Committee on Finance and, unlike Mr Heinonen, the Left Alliance will at least be proposing a tightening of the taxation of large inheritances rather than abdicating it. In this debate, Mr Kiuru, the opening of the debate, presented this objection and the reasons for it — an objection which also includes the Left Alliance and the Greens. That's it. That's it. But once we have remembered the history of forest taxation, it is true that there used to be area taxation, and area taxation certainly seemed disproportionate to those who paid that area tax without obtaining sufficient forest sales income to pay its tax, but then, when we moved on to sales income tax again, it also perhaps increased the number of these passive forest owners, who then did not pay much for the active management and yield of forest assets. Then there was the transition period when one of them was allowed to choose. These — the implementation of climate objectives, the expansion of the bio-product industry, the adequate level of protection, the preservation of diversity — all call for the efficient use of economic forests and should be encouraged. And forest taxation requires reform. In fact, the forest industry has built up a very good, effective forestry tax reform model, which assumes that such a tax burden would be imposed on everyone, which would then be reduced as the revenue from the sale of forests comes, i.e. taxation would be restored after the ability to pay taxes as a result of its sale. In other words, we need a steady, long-term movement of wood, and we can promote it with reasonableness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u107	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Two of the three happy bandits have arrived in the hall today: a forest gift reduction and an entrepreneur deduction. The third happy bandit is a little late, comes next week, and that is the discount on inheritance tax and gift tax. This is for you now, Mr Heinos, who has already spoken a few times early on about this matter only next week, and I am sure that we will have a very interesting debate. Other beautiful nicknames have been given to this bill, such as "innovation" and "strange". These have been heard in the expert tax section, and it is true that one of our experts said that there might not be another tax on persons in the Nordic countries, where one tax may be deducted from another tax, and one tax may also go back half a century to find one of these things. As Mrs Aalto said, this violates the rational and self-evident idea of broad tax bases and clear taxation in the Government Programme itself. And, as Mr Kiviranta said, it certainly requires professional help from a tax planner or legal services. But I also agree with Mr Aalto's surprise that the assembly now believes in the market economy at all. When the timber trade is hot because of these investments, why on earth do we need to subsidise the sale of wood separately now with taxpayers’ money? Another issue that is disturbing the market economy is the fact that Mr Heinonen spoke very nicely about making it easier to dispose of these forests further, but from a market economy point of view, as has been said in the motion, it is likely that forest prices will rise and that trade in forestry farms will be reduced. So you're not allowed to buy forest facilities for someone who's not already born for that. That kind of market economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u108	Mr President! This bill has a long history. Already in the Government Resolution on the National Forest Programme 2015, the objective was to increase the size of private forest holdings to 50 hectares by 2050. Thus, even during the second government of Vanhanen, it was considered that by increasing farm sizes and improving the structure of farms, it would be possible to improve the profitability of forestry and the conditions for sustainable forestry and the management of industrial wood. In order to increase the size of the holding, the Forest Programme identified, among other things, fiscal means to improve the conditions for generational exchanges and forestry. The working group on how to achieve this objective discussed a number of measures to prevent fragmentation of forest holdings, increase the size of forest holdings and increase the activity of forestry in private forests. The working group considered the extension of the benefits of the generational exchange of inheritance and gift tax laws to forest holdings to be the most important and most effective measure, and based on the studies carried out and commissioned by the working group, the allowance for the generational exchange of forest holdings can be cost-effective and effective in achieving the objectives of forestry, industry and employment policy. The recently completed Finnish bioeconomy strategy emphasises the availability of biomass for the needs of the bioeconomy. The National Forestry Strategy 2025, adopted by the Government, sets a growth target of 15 million cubic metres for roundwood felling, which means a quarter increase in the current felling accumulation, i.e. indeed significant growth. In order to achieve this growth, the objective of the forestry strategy is also to increase active and entrepreneurial forestry, increase farm size and support the active use of forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u109	For some reason, Mr Viljanen's voice disappeared for a moment, but it must have been clear to us all to the extent that it was not heard there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u110	Mr President! I was delighted to hear Mr Heinonen say that common forests are an important part. In a way, I would have liked to have liked to have had the courage to go back to that point in the government, which was also heard from Mrs Viljanen. In other words, this common forest thinking could be an excellent solution for the heirs. A mechanism would be put in place to provide them with a clear tax relief at the time of their inheritance if their inheritance is a common forest. This would keep these forests well maintained and in active use. If we have 60,000 forest owners in this country who do not know that they own the forest, then of course every government, this one and the next one, must try to do what they can to make these bushes useful. Indeed, the greatest national economic defeat is that we have an ignorant forest owner and, let us say, the heirs are squinting this property. Perhaps we should be quite courageous in introducing the point at which the estate must do something so that this fragmentation can clearly be prevented, and impose a small amount on the heirs, perhaps taking the Swedish side as a model, so that there really is an active grip on the ownership of the forest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u111	Mr President! This reduction in forest gifts is about this, say the three gangs, or three happy bandits, by which we mean that in these times when the government cuts low income people's unemployment security, basic security, all this, the government has enough money for generous — generous — tax reliefs. Two bandits are here today, this forest gift reduction and next on the list this so-called apothecary deduction, and the third is then awaited in the form of this inheritance tax and gift tax, which affords enough to reduce the tax on millions of inheritances at the same time as cutting low incomes. President! It should also be noted here in its entirety that these legislative proposals, which total some two hundred million — a couple hundred million — do not have any significant impact on employment. Why I would like to raise this issue in this context today, once again, is the concern that, if employment does not improve, we will be faced with further cuts next spring. This weekend, I noticed an exchange of views between the government on whether there were any additional cuts in the spring, possibly in a row that might be moved over the municipal elections, which we wondered about. Now it would appear that the Minister of Finance, Orpo, has announced that a couple of billions of dollars may be in sight for further cuts, and the Prime Minister. Sipilä says, well, it probably isn’t — so here is a fork of a couple of billions. If employment does not improve, I am afraid, Mr President, that it will be the case that the government will then meet in the spring and say that what is being done will have to be taken into account when jobs are not being created, the economy will not grow, there will be more cuts from education, from low incomes, and at the same time it will be said that there will be a waste of time, there will then be a couple hundred million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u112	I would ask the representative to move to the podium if he wishes to continue. — Apparently not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u113	Mr President! We have been reminiscent of the past here, and we and the President could also remember the time we were in the ministerial group on taxation policy 25 years ago. Among other things, forest taxation was reformed, as were all other tax laws. At that time, from area taxation to sales taxation, a transitional period of 13 years was introduced. The choice had to be made. At that time, there was little fear that the position of the State and the recipients of tax revenue would deteriorate in the sense that every time there was a bad economic situation, the tree would not be sold, because there was no buyer or seller, so that the tax revenue would not come through sales taxation, and then it would deepen the economic distress. Maybe this could have happened. I don't know if there's been an investigation. Area taxation was good in that there was a stable tax revenue at all times, but that was the other problems and injustices that there is now no reason to go there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u116	Mr President! Perhaps it is now time to correct that I was not talking about selling wood, but specifically about activating the heirs in order for them to take action. I did not mean at the point where the heirs need to sell their trees, but precisely that this forest property is actively transferred to be managed and tried to prevent its fragmentation. But maybe this goes to the old memory side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u117	Mr President! I drew attention to the detail in the speech, which stated that it was necessary to secure access to wood for the forest industry. I am now looking at the Savon Sanomat case, which has been written in practice on 20 September 2016, and I have no reason to believe that this case is not true. It is stated here that "In January-August, the member companies of the Forest Industries Association purchased 20 million cubic metres of wood from Finland's private forests. It is 15 per cent more than the average over the corresponding period of the last ten years and 10 per cent more than last year'. And in this situation, we are submitting a government proposal stating that there has been difficulties in obtaining wood and there is no wood supply, and this proposal is being made in order to improve the efficiency of the timber trade. In this respect, you can say yes, as Erno Järvinen, Research Manager of the Finnish Forest Research Institute (MTK), for example, states that "if the volume of timber trade is compared to the general economic situation of Finnish society, you cannot complain".
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u118	Mr President! It is truly excellent that these figures are like this. It tells us that the government's policy has been successful. But, Mr Kiuru, did you listen to my speech when I said that, among other things, the huge investment in Äänekoski, which will increase demand for wood by 4 million cubic metres, will be completed next year? And in Kuopio, Kemijärvi, Kemi, Pietarsaari, and so on, investments are being prepared to increase the demand for wood strongly, and then there is a need for the factors that can be used to ensure that wood is mobilised. These investments are useless if we do not have any raw material there. And if we do not take advantage of this opportunity now, do not say anything about managing employment and correcting the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u119	Mr President! All I have to say is that if the government's policy is so successful that you take this good wood supply into your own name, then why on earth do you have to make supplementary proposals if this situation is so good because of the government's actions? And, of course, it will already be noticed that there is another foxtail under the arm. If this proposal were to stimulate genuine trade in timber, it would of course have been the case that this proposal would not be aimed at just one third of forest owners and that there would not be limits here where a minimum size should be owned so that this benefit could be made available. In this case, it is a question of seeking a completely different kind of foxtail, which is linked to the fact that a forest gift can be accepted as such a generational change, and here it is intended to ensure that it is piled up for those who already have. And I have to say, Mr President, that these arguments which are being used here when the question is...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u120	Mr President! It is somewhat questionable to talk about a government proposal which is quite serious and important that there is a foxtail under the arm. In my speech, I said that there are problems with this bill because it is bureaucratic, complex, and then I think it is also a problem that this is targeted at quite large farms and then the smaller ones are excluded. I do not know why this has been decided, but, of course, there is still reason for us to look into this in the next government or in the future, so that the status of small forest owners in the name of equality can also be restored.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u121	Mr Kiviranta has asked for a reply, but he also has a list statement here. Does he want both, or will he take the floor? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u122	Mr President! Representative Krista Kiuru is, as I am, concerned that this reduction in forest gifts does not now apply to all forest owners. I believe that when the next item on the list is entrepreneurship reduction, which applies equally to all forest owners, Mr Kiuru will then praise it. This is what I'm looking forward to. But then about this wood supply situation: It is good at the moment. But just as Mr Kankaanniemi said, so there is a great deal of investment going on in the country. The investment in Äänekoski will be completed at the beginning of next autumn. It's starting to show up on the market next year right away. Then comes Kemi, Kemijärvi — hopefully these Chinese projects will also be carried out — and possibly the pulp mill project in Kuopio. There's a lot of these up ahead. I believe that this reduction in forest gifts will contribute to the supply of wood in a situation where demand is really growing. In fact, I do not believe, and even according to the PTT study, that this sale of wood would be a matter of age, that young people would, of course, sell more than parents. Probably all reasonable people will then sell wood when it is justified in terms of forest management and they will understand that it will start producing better elsewhere. But yes, I believe that when a younger generation gets this kind of small tax carrot — I would say a very small tax carrot — through this forest gift reduction, it helps to ensure the supply of wood in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u123	Mr President! A few more comments: After all, this additional use of wood plays a very important role in the future of the Finnish economy when we get the wheels running so that we can make new investments in Finland. After all, Finland has been living in an investment recession for a long time, and there has been little investment here. At the time when the forest industry was experiencing a strong upturn in the 1980s and, it is said, in the late '70s until 2000, the average investment rate was approximately one billion per year, and it was said that a good paper machine would pay for itself in two years. At that time, investments were made in Finland. Today, as Mr Kiviranta described very well, we are fortunate to see the pace of investment moving. This is the most important thing for the recovery of Finland’s national economy. And the use of wood guarantees it: When more Finnish wood is used, it certainly brings work. The least of all for the forest owner himself, but in the course of its chain very many Finns. I can give you an example: when a forest owner sells first thinning pine fibre, he gets 10 euros for it. It is roughly a rough average price at the moment when a reasonable baker sells, and it is not a big price. But then there goes a multipurpose driver, stacks up the trees, then comes a driver, drives it along the road — certainly there can be a representative of the more beautiful sex in the wheel, in honor of equality — and then the truck takes it to an industrial processing site or to another means of transport, even if it is now on the train, then it goes to the factory and is processed there, so many people get jobs between them. What the forest owner receives, its 10 euros less taxes there on standing timber sales, is a very small part of this whole chain. That, ladies and gentlemen, do not stare at the cost of carrying that tree, it is a very minimal part of the total price of the finished product. The important thing is that a lot of people get a job in the meantime. It would be the salvation of Finland. And the benefit is really not for the forest owner, it repeats during its chain so that the last benefit is for it. Hopefully, one day there will be a situation where a composite-material laptop even though Mr Kiuru goes to the store to buy it and says that this is a good tool when it is light and durable and is not at all bothered by static electricity as these modern plastic gadgets are. Then this structural renewal on the forestry side is absolutely essential. I've been thinking for a long time, what am I wondering about that demo line? I would now like to thank Mrs Kiuru, from the very bottom of my heart, for this fine speech. It just flashed to me after a long period of reflection: for you structural reform is a side-effect, as long as you get to play with a tax carrot or a tax issue in order to show that someone is more greedy than another or someone is richer than another. If we do not make structural reforms in this country, we will be in the position we are now. So let us not oppose reform. Reform is essential. It concerns our own personal life, it concerns forestry, Finnish industry and Finnish society as a whole. If you think that we can get through this by being as good as before and even better than yesterday, then that is not true. We need to reform, and that is precisely what starts with the structures. And this is one small part of that structural chain, it would be good to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u126	Mr President! Thank you for this, I will quickly correct this misconception that Mrs Hoskonen has just produced. I specifically went to open this debate by saying that it is sacrosanct that the government does not want to moderate forest taxation, but instead makes a more bureaucratic and administrative system which does not even have the legitimacy to make wood move — when it is already moving. I find this incomprehensible that we are in this situation. I proposed that an overall reform of forest taxation be carried out, with the aim of ensuring affordable access to raw materials for the forest industry. I also suggested that the government should deal with the problems of forest taxation and give Parliament a proposal on forest taxation, which would simplify and clarify forest taxation, and in the same context the government would correct the shortcomings in forest management. If the centre's parliamentary group could support these good proposals, which Mr Hoskonen spoke about, then this can be supported in the form of a statement when we come to make a statement on this, both the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and the Greens, and I hope that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u127	Now to the actual list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u128	Mr President! Forest gift reduction is the government's way of accelerating generational shifts and preventing the fragmentation of forest farms. However, the proposal is problematic. It targets large forest farms, less than a third of the farms, although the small size of the farms is a problem. The presentation forgets that the human factor associated with forest facilities is that older forest owners are unable to manage their forests but there is no successor. It doesn't help if you're cutting back on a forest gift. In this debate, Mrs Myllykoski made an interesting proposal for a joint forestry mechanism. This could contribute better to the supply of wood, and I think it would be important to clarify this. This reduction in forest gifts proposed by the Government will also further increase the accumulation of assets and increase social inequality. At the same time, while the government is drastically cutting social security for the weaker, this reduction in forest gifts is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u129	Mr President! I shall now proceed with the second speech because the speech, or more specifically the voice, has been broken, even though the thought has not been cut off. Representative Kiuru just quoted an article about Savon Sanomat, which reported that sales of wood increased by 10 per cent compared to last year and 15 per cent to the ten-year average. I have already mentioned in my first speech an expert assessment, which has certainly not been in Savon Sanomat, but on the basis of which fellings must increase by 15 million cubic metres, or by 25 per cent, and which is the most relevant, wood management must be secured on a long-term basis. However, as I said earlier, this proposal has already been raised during the second government of Vanhanen in order to meet the needs of the forest and bioproduct industry in a long-term perspective, i.e. long-term, not just for a short time. At the same time, the objective has been set to ensure good forest management. Now, following a number of studies, we have reached the legislative stage and, as has been said here, the proposal in hand may not be the clearest. I agree with Mr Kiviranta that it would be good to lower the limit of hectares for relief so that more forest owners would come within its scope. But Mr Hoskonen has already summed up the situation very well here: despite his weaknesses, this proposal is a decisive step in the right direction. As Mr Kalli has already said, this benefit cannot be gained unless wood is sold, and the movement of wood is an advantage of our economy. I am pleased with the work, entrepreneurship and employment in Finland that this issue of the generation change of forest farms is finally progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u130	Mr. Speaker! Just a few things. Firstly, there has been some major forestry tax reform. The fact that we have a satisfactory trade in wood, perhaps commendable, is due to the fact that the predictability between forest owners and timber buyers is very clear. There is no uncertainty, and therefore the timber trade is undisturbed. It's worth remembering. If the idea is raised that something big or significant is being done, it may affect and bring about a disturbance. Although the trade in wood is commendable, we have had a lot of wood use in the past years, such wood processing that cannot be satisfied from Finland — for example, birch is what is needed when imported — and in order for us to be able to rely more on our own forests, it requires that the entire forest area be made available. And when it is known, based on studies, that about 5 million hectares have been out of use for a few ten years, then, of course, the responsible government must act and create the conditions under which this is possible. That this only favors large spaces: Even small farms have a chance. When that small farm buys more forest and reaches its surface area, it will then be able to use this possibility through the sale of wood. Then, when Mr Hoskonen said that when forests are used, then through the harvester, through the harvester and through the factory, there will be activity, that it will not end there, but then the forest owner will be obliged to cultivate the forest, and then he will take care of the seedling, the first thinning, that is, when the forests are used, it will produce a lever effect which will be followed by the activity, and it can therefore be said that this system will contribute to the requirement to bring the forest balance to work. And when it is put to work, it creates a leverage effect that clearly generates more tax revenue for society than these gifts are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u131	Mr President! This thing was marketed as a structural change. The Lord will protect us from such structural changes that make the tax system, which is already very difficult, more complex and more difficult to understand. There is a need for simplification and not for any more of these artificial deductions, followed by entrepreneurship reduction. Yes, much of the forest farms belong to the townspeople, but do the hectares belong to them? If the main problem mentioned here was that of indifferent or lazy forest management, that is certainly not the problem of these largest forest farms, this third that can enjoy this gift. It must be noted that this gift is therefore regressive: it already favours high incomes. After all, the income from the sale of wood is capital income. Thus, in the eyes of the tax authorities, the forest is an investment, and now the price of the forest is being increased by government subsidies. If you have not been born with a forest farm, you do not need to own it when their prices are rising. This is not a market economy. No other type of capital income is treated in this way to talk about a generation change, which is a rather romantic expression. No one is talking about the generation change in the stock portfolio — or, in fact, we should be talking about it, because millions of securities will be transferred in the protection of real business assets under reduced conditions, but it will then be discussed in the context of the inheritance and gift tax law next week. According to the stone beach, this is small money, only EUR 140 million in total. Well, it would've done twice to cancel the carer size savings. It could almost completely reverse the planned savings in vocational education and training. Yes, in these places. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : Representative, indeed pleased with the speaking toilet,2minutes already used. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u134	Mr. Speaker! A little wonders the language of the current opposition here that there is now strong opposition to this. The opposition has been in the process of adopting national forest programmes, all of which have included the principles and objectives that this gift reduction now has.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u137	Just briefly to Mrs Haraka, when she began to develop issues on which this tax impact of the forestry allowance and the entrepreneurial deduction could be applied. Maybe we shouldn't go into this conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u140	Mr. Speaker! I found Mr Haraka's speech almost irresponsible. You too know that we have these huge investments on the forest side. You're from Äänekoski. Check it out. It's a huge investment. An even bigger one is planned for Kuopio. Kemi, Kemijärvi and so on — they are such investments that we must prepare for them now, and it is irresponsible without proposing any alternative, resisting, resisting
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u143	Reply, Mr Harakka. — Let me add, ladies and gentlemen, that Mrs Haraka's name was mentioned in this speech by Mrs Kankaanniemi. On the other hand, Mr Leppa's speech was not addressed by name to Mr Kiuru, who rose at an earlier stage. — Now, Mr Harakka, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u144	That's right. — I have been to Äänekoski and I will visit it again next week to see what Mr Kiuru said earlier. Now the deal is done — why would such a special benefit be granted to one group of owners? We also put forward the option of looking at forest taxation as a whole, and not at the fact that every single tax deduction adds a little bit more so that it is finally confused with what source of income it is actually about. This complicates things even further. But the alternative is presented, as always. I should like to ask Mr Levä, when you said that one third of Finland's forests are those that are poorly managed, whether it is the same one third that is now receiving this relief.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u147	Mr President! If you looked for something positive in that Socialist option, it was that even this money would not be used to eradicate the black economy. That has been the most profitable of all, and it is worth putting more in there, at least with the rate of return that the Social Democrats put forward in their own alternative budget. It is unusual to think that such measures that increase work and activity in this country will now be condemned. Above all, this country needs more work and more activity and, as I said earlier, it is estimated that the supply of wood is expected to increase by up to 1.5 million cubic metres a year, and this is estimated to increase the supply of forest farms from 1,400 to up to 3,000 per year. This will lead to a significant increase in work in the country. It will mean more work for forest machines, loggers, but also for the transport sector, and it will thus strengthen our situation throughout the chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u150	Mr President! I'm sure this will leave you speechless. In fact, this leaves words unspeakable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u157	Mr President! I understand very well in terms of the centre of the will formation of this proposal, and even in relation to the Finns of Peru, but I cannot understand why the Coalition Party is opposed to the price formation of the market mechanism, why the Coalition Party is opposed to a tax base in which the positions themselves are rather low and the basis is very broad, why the Coalition Party is opposed to the market economy for spirit and blood in this Chamber. That is what I cannot understand and I cannot understand as a whole that when the timber trade is hot as a hook of stoves, at that point more support will be put in place when there is little money anyway. It should be possible to allocate all that money to job-creating projects, to projects that create new growth, and not just to the highest income settlements lying in accounts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u158	Mr President! The message of the kind of tax reform that is now being sought here has been badly missed. What are the principles of what on earth is there, that is, forced sales? Is that what they want? Tell it straight, if that's what you're doing, and we'll be able to answer it. Now you are squirming about the need for tax reform, no information whatsoever what it is. Here's the government proposal. This is a long time. You have been involved, among other things, in the National Forest Programme, in its preparation, as have the Greens. You have accepted the principles that are now here. Isn't that good? As far as these forests are concerned, which have not been actively used, there are all kinds of forest owners and all kinds of forest farms of all sizes. This is what we want, of course, and the government wants and a clear majority of Parliament will want to see more activity there. I'm sure this will hit you there. Last comment, President, on these common forests, which were raised here by Mrs Myllykoski. It is an excellent form of forest ownership. There are a lot of incentives for that. The previous government and the previous government have built incentives there for forest owners to be willing to join their forests and their forests in common forests. It is an extremely good way to own and manage forests in an efficient but sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u159	Mr President! Among others, representatives of Kiuru, Harakka and Aalto have spoken well on this subject. It is regrettable that the representatives of the government parties have clearly not listened carefully to these speeches and speeches. I very much hope that Mr Heinonen will familiarise himself with the alternative budget of the SDP. It is strange to have to spell out that when there is a difficult financial situation and when there is no allocation, just like the representative. Kiuru here said, then it is not worth really using this money for things that do not produce growth that do not generate employment but are like such gifts that do little or no good. When it comes to tough economics, we spend state money, our common money, rationally. Investing in growth, employment, precisely in these issues, which the SDP has systematically raised both last year and this year's alternative budget for next year. I hope that you will now listen to this speech and also read Mr Kiuru and Mr Haraka's speeches, even if in writing, if they did not open up this debate on the team to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u160	Mr President! In short, of course, this minor change and reform of forest taxation now under discussion is productive. When the tree starts to move, as I said in my own speech, that cheap first thinning tree will be valued. It's a bit of a forest owner, a machine driver, a motorist, a truck driver. At the pulp mill or wherever they're processed, there's a worker getting paid, then he gets resold, and so on. It's a huge chain. It is certainly productive, but it is also restructuring. If we want the huge investment in the forest industry that this country has so longed for with its skin — it has been a longing for a soul to get those investments at last and finally more — every million that is invested in this country and mobilises domestic raw materials will surely be a thousand times more profitable than to drive coal from Vorkuta or bring it from Poland to Finland by boat. I'm sure it's better, and you don't have to coddle with whether the climate was ruined or not. So this is certainly a structural reform and also a productive reform. In this particular speech, the car tax reform was mentioned. When, in due course, the opposition strongly criticised it as a completely absurd reform, what happened? Of course, when a little change was made to the base of the car tax and the possibility was given that the car fleet would be renewed, and of course, when the tax was calculated, the calculation was lost, but what happened? A huge number of new cars entered the market, were sold, and the government received more money for it, much more than was lost, which means that the result was a plus sign. You don't want to ride with that jealous brother. It's the kind of guy that goes with the money and it gets cold when you get on it. But we need to look ahead, reform structures, invest in Finland and get jobs for Finns. It's the only way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u161	Mr President! If it has not become clear yet, then I will continue to say that we do not see any justification for the conclusion that these government arguments should lead to a reduction in forestry gifts for the generation of farms. In other words, we would reject this proposal because we feel that with this same amount of money in such a difficult economic period, we should reverse cuts that deprive the most low-income people of the opportunity to live decently. It is absolutely central to our argument that at this time we cannot afford such a gift. And when this gift is justified here in particular by making the tree move, so when I have tried here to tell you that the tree moves better than ever, it is an invalid argument in this debate. In that regard, if you really wanted to make the tree move, then it would probably be some kind of reduction or support for the movement of the tree so that anyone who owns the forest could have it. Now we have to wait for a generation change before you can get this relief, as it were, and then make the tree move. It is quite difficult to make this whole, and in that respect it still has to be said that this proposal applies only to forest land and only to donations of forest land exceeding a certain minimum size. It leaves two thirds of the current forest owners cold, and with these arguments it can be said that the tree does not move much here when it has been chosen that generational change is an essential part. We are also prepared to reject this because the economic benefits have not been shown in this proposal, and that is why it is important that the wealth is not only directed at the owners' families that own the forest, but also at others who are part of it. I have already spoken about this tax solution, which means that we believe that we would have the same tricks in the tax reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u162	Mr President! The Socialist model of forest tax reform remains completely in the air, i.e. how you would do it. But that is now the subject of the second Mass. Mr President! I have said a few times that the Äänekoski project will be completed next autumn. A huge amount of more wood is needed there. The fact that timber trade is now good is a positive thing and thanks to the good economic policy of the government, but the need is growing after a year. At the moment, investors are wondering whether they will dare to start the investments in Kuopio and elsewhere, in Northern Finland and certainly elsewhere in Finland, and to implement these investment plans, they must be sure that they have raw material for the factories. This measure, for a small part, improves and ensures that wood moves to the extent necessary, and this single law can be very decisive in getting these big investments moving, decisions to be made as soon as possible, and has a huge impact on Finland's economy, exports and our well-being, i.e. tax revenue, which can then deal with the problems that society faces in terms of poverty, education and other needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u163	Mr President! Now that the demand is right, three conditions are calculated for further development of forest taxation, and I ask for the support of the government partners, because I understand that you do not represent the 'no' movement, but are prepared to approach forest taxation and its problems on this Hoskone-Kiuru line. Mr President! We have proposed this overall reform of forest taxation as a parliamentary task, so that, first of all, we can secure the availability of affordable raw material for the forestry industry. As a second starting point, we have pointed out that there are currently a number of problems with forest taxation and that Parliament should present an overall proposal on forest taxation that would simplify and clarify current taxation, especially in the context of the new, very bureaucratic, heavy and complex one-off situation today. Thirdly, we have tabled this overall reform because the government should be able to correct the shortcomings in forest management. These three starting points were in my first speech, in which I went through the alternative of not making a proposal that meets one of the characteristics of friend capitalism, the real purpose of which is simply to ensure that those who already have a great deal of money get richer without having to have the growth and employment criteria which, at this time, would be the conditions under which further proposals can be made in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u164	Chairman! I too am referring to what could be — but I do not want to see a new long debate on this — the reform of forest taxation. The forest industry has put forward a model that basically assumes that, when there are so many forest owners, there are those who do not even know that they own the forest, such forest owners would, for example, receive a forest land levy or other fee, collapse from the mail door, and it would indicate that you own ten hectares of forest there and pay for it this much a year, then there would be an interest in selling it for some larger forest ownership, which would increase the size of the forest farms. And then, if you wanted to keep that forest, there is now more or less, then after you sell it and you get sales revenue from it, then the sales tax would be deducted from the previously paid forest tax, or what the more accurate form of it is. We need both carrots and incentives, but this is not a reform of forest taxation that you are now presenting here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u165	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 29/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u166	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes that, from the beginning of next year, an entrepreneurial reduction of 5% of the profits of the companies, open companies and limited companies will be introduced. This 5% tax deduction right is made from business results. In this case, 5% of the business result would be tax-free income for the entrepreneur and the rest would be divided into capital and earned income according to the current model. This is an important recognition that the government appreciates the work done by every entrepreneur. Although this reduction is not very large, it is nevertheless an important signal to encourage entrepreneurship, including in non-public limited companies. I am definitely in favour of introducing entrepreneurship reduction, as it places different forms of company taxation more on the same line. It is, above all, a question of equality between different forms of enterprise. This entrepreneurship reduction will affect a very large number of people, including traders, farmers and forestry entrepreneurs as well as reindeer husbandry workers. In practice, small businesses have been the only companies in recent years that have created new jobs. On the other hand, this entrepreneurship reduction does not significantly increase the desire of small businesses to employ additional labour, but the introduction of this reduction is a good incentive to start or continue their business. This entrepreneurial reduction is part of the Government’s wider project to improve the operating conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. Other government law projects to improve entrepreneurship include, for example, the transfer of value added tax on the basis of payment, where value added tax will only be charged when it has come to the entrepreneur. This will improve the liquidity of the entrepreneur. Admittedly, this has been a rather strange way of doing so when an entrepreneur has had to pay tax on the result he has not yet received. It is clear that the entrepreneurial reduction provided for in this proposal will also benefit those who deserve more because they have more income. However, this is an important level correction for companies of all sizes, which was not done by the previous government. The previous government reduced the tax burden on large companies, forgetting small businesses and traders. However, it is in these small companies that as many as 90% of the jobs on the private side are employed, and so far the smallest have often acted without any incentive compared to paid employment. Mr President! When you look at the website of the Tax Administration, you can say that there are around 176,000 traders, business names, open companies and limited companies in Finland. Of these, 77%, i.e. more than 135,000 companies, have an annual taxable income of less than EUR 30000. Farmers are up to 87% below this threshold.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u169	Mr President! The Social Democrats are ready to encourage entrepreneurship and create growth and new jobs. We have suggested that investment should be focused in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises, improving their operating conditions, encouraging genuine entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, employment and growth. All these financial contributions that can be made at such a difficult time must be made in a way that generates employment and growth. We have argued that a more effective measure would be the additional right to deduct the remuneration of the first external worker. The first signatory to our bill is our Tax Division representative, Harakka, and with this bill we are seeking to help, above all, the self-employed. By raising the threshold for the company's VAT liability, we could also add value in an entirely new way to the debate on how we encourage small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. We have proposed that an increase in the VAT threshold should be made to a turnover of EUR 30000 of the current turnover of EUR 10000. I would hope that these good, important proposals from the point of view of economic growth could also be supported by the government parties. Mr President! So much for the Social Democratic option. Then let's look at the government's own choice: The Government presents an alternative to entrepreneurship reduction. In particular, it is justified, first of all, by an incorrect comparison between the taxation of different forms of enterprise, which we have just heard. Moreover, the deduction of entrepreneurs is very incorrect in comparing the taxation of traders and shareholders of partnerships with the taxation of shareholders of a limited company, even though in fact the vast majority of income is taxed on income tax. I do not understand why these facts could not be brought up in the parliamentary debate. Secondly, it should be noted that there are also problems with entrepreneurship reduction in the fact that its income-sharing effects are not sustainable. It is very difficult, even risky, that the reduction of companies is not particularly targeted at low-income entrepreneurs. In fact, it is a disproportionate reward for truly high income entrepreneurs. Its actual incentive to try is non-existent. These are also things that should be discussed in this Chamber. Thirdly, entrepreneurship reduction is problematic because, in this state economic situation, it is highly incomprehensible that we are prepared to make the arguments for growth and employment by appealing for an investment that would result in a loss of tax revenue of EUR 123 million. This loss of tax revenue is justified by a reasonable impact on employment and growth. When you read this government's own proposal, it turns out that there are in fact no employment and growth effects to be said at all, but rather three points warn that these effects may be quite negligible. That is why it is irresponsible to justify this proposal with the effects on growth and employment. It is irresponsible, but even this evening we will certainly hear these very arguments in this Chamber. Fourthly, the comparison of forest ownership with entrepreneurship has failed in this respect. It is incomprehensible that the government considers that forest income from forestry in particular should also be subject to entrepreneurship reduction. In this case, therefore, it is incomprehensible that property income is treated in accordance with entrepreneurial income and is comparable. I have to say that this kind of milk has not been seen in Parliament for a long time. It is therefore also right that the opposition should draw attention to the fact that this cannot be the case. Mr President! If you don't mind if I continue? — Looks like I can. [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : Yes, please. It's only 10 minutes before that limit. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u172	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that, in practice, all new jobs in the 21st century have been created specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises. During the first 10 years of this millennium, only over 7,000 jobs were created in large companies in Finland, but small and medium-sized SMEs created jobs for more than 100,000 Finns. There are currently some 300,000 companies in our country and they employ more than 1.4 million Finns, and it is an important resource to run this country. Of these, the number of enterprises with fewer than 10 persons is over 93 per cent and that of large enterprises is only 0.2 per cent, or just under 600. SMEs therefore account for up to 99.8% of the stock of enterprises, and that is where jobs will be created in the future, or where entrepreneurs will create them. During the last parliamentary term, corporate tax was reduced to 20%. This tax reduction was vital for large companies. However, the discount did not benefit either partnerships or traders. It is also worth noting that tax evasion during the last parliamentary term, on the other hand, concerned all companies and forms of enterprise. In other words, when the Social Democrats were the Finance Minister's party, the reduction only went to the largest limited companies through corporation tax, but the tax evasion was done for all companies and business forms. About half of the SMEs are non-public limited companies. After all, the total taxation of these partnerships is now about five per cent higher than that of employees in the corresponding income brackets. Now we want to correct and correct this. This government, which now runs our country under the leadership of the Centre Party, the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru, is certainly one of the most entrepreneurial governments in the history of our country. We have presented and decided the government's proposal to equalise the cost of parenting. It will enter into force in April. It has not been possible for previous governments to do so, and it is also an important factor for equality in the labour market, women-dominated sectors and mothers. Value added tax based on payments has been introduced. It targets some 190,000 companies, and now the entrepreneurship reduction is under discussion. So now we are introducing a reduction in entrepreneurship for these very smaller companies, i.e. shoemakers, barbers, janitors and practically all those who are self-employed, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u177	Mr President! First a little review of last season, a review of the actions of Prime Minister Katainen's government. After all, corporate tax, i.e. the income tax rate of limited companies and cooperatives, was reduced twice, from 26 to 24.5% and then to 20%, and this currently amounts to around EUR 900 million per year in the budget. I don't blame this. Then, if we look at the changes in dividend taxation made at the time, the companies quoted on the stock market clearly tightened the tax on dividends and the non-listed companies became less sensitive and some tightened, while the tax on interest on equity was reduced and some tightened. But it is clear that this reduction in corporation tax from 26 to 20 per cent was a major change and, at the same time, in all other forms of business, taxation either remained unchanged or tightened. After all, the taxation of capital income increased considerably during the last period. Now we want to give a small credit to these other forms of enterprise. The city centre demanded this throughout the last season, but the government did not listen to it. Now, this entrepreneurial reduction, which is carried out in a balanced manner for all the entrepreneurs it targets, concerns the business and professional sector, it concerns private companies, i.e. tax associations, it concerns farmers, forestry operators and even reindeer husbandry. Unlike that reduction in forest gifts, this code is very clear. Here in Parliament, a small balancing solution was made when this was also actually targeted at the common forests in such a way as to reduce the income tax rate from 28 to 26.5%. The relative position of the common forests remained the same in income tax, in fact slightly improved because the entrepreneurial reduction would have led to 26,6 and now the tax rate was decided on 26,5. In the same way, forestry operators were also treated equally, that even when there is a negative result, a loss-making result, not a reduction in deductible expenditure but this negative reduction in entrepreneurial activity, which the people would certainly not have understood, was removed. The forestry operator could not have understood that his deductible expenditure would have been cut by 5%. I think this entrepreneurial reduction came into good shape, and this is an important way to inspire entrepreneurship. More and more people become entrepreneurs, and I think that the government has made very encouraging legislation here. Then I would say to Mrs Kiuru that this raising of the VAT threshold has certainly come to a new light since the Finnish Entrepreneurs have now decided that it could be raised this autumn. In the past, Finnish Entrepreneurs opposed it for reasons of competition. In February 2015, the Minister for Finance, Rinne, submitted a proposal, not even two years ago, which increased it from just 8500 to 10,000 euros,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u180	Mr President! I think that this bill, which introduces entrepreneurship reduction, is very good and well-founded. After all, in the last parliamentary term, capital taxation was reformed to reduce the tax rate from 24.5% to 20. This happened in 2014, and it is now quite fair that these individuals' companies and entrepreneurs also receive this same advantage — it is fair that they can then, as it were, be on the same line. We will never achieve the level of fairness in taxation — there is no such day that we can say that taxation is, or usually any distribution of income, in this country or in the world fair. There are currently nearly 300,000 entrepreneurs in Finland, and consider this, ladies and gentlemen of the left, representatives of the opposition: On many occasions you have always flashed the need to tighten taxes, to generate income for the state, to generate income for society. Are you not beginning to believe that tax increases in this country do not have very many new jobs created? There's a bear on that road for sure, and it's a bear other than that tax bear. So if we want a job in this country, then trying must be worthwhile. Absolutely. An entrepreneur who makes a profit — when he too is burdened with hard work, sometimes does 16 hours a day — is likely to hire a new person to work there. Just think of today's entrepreneurs, what new businesses are being created, and I know them from my own circle: there are service companies that are active in the elderly service sector, there are cleaning companies that sell services to any one of us — mostly older people who are starting to become ill, they like to buy cleaning services, and then, of course, there comes this household allowance to help. In other words, there are jobs in this country, but if we go from your point of view to this point of view, that everything should be taxed to about half-dead and then we will be able to say that we will be paying more than EUR 5 billion a year for unemployment — in reality, more, given all the overall effects of unemployment on human life and this society — will you not one day start to wake up from this dream of yours that it would be a time of gradual restructuring? We have almost 300,000 companies in this country, think of it, ladies and gentlemen, as a theoretical example: if half of these companies were to hire another employee tomorrow morning — more than one employee — in Finland, unemployment problems would have been swept under the carpet at the moment, we would save EUR 5 billion in unemployment costs. In other words, if you are constantly against having to try something new in this country, that is the surest way for us to find ourselves in the International Monetary Fund because of a carelessly managed economy. Congressman Krista Kiuru has been very well-suited on this occasion. Once again, I would like to thank him warmly for bringing this own line of taxation to my attention in an understandable way: no reforms, let us return to the old world, raise taxation and remain silent. For toward darkness and frost cometh, Let us take another look, Mr President, at the fact that we have so many of these companies and there is a huge amount of innovation there. We are currently having a Slush event in this city where top-smart young people, young men and young women, are making great innovations. It is a source of great business ideas that create new jobs. I, as a Member of the Parliament of the Demari, would not laugh at all, nor would I laugh at the fact that there is still a head of light in this country who dares to invest and invest. They laugh about it here, but I have a great deal of respect for these entrepreneurs and I'm going to North Karelia's entrepreneurship party in Joensuu on Saturday, the best in the head and proud to be with those people working for me. So you're here now to scare us that this is going to end badly if the entrepreneurial deduction comes. The tax reform of the limited liability company cost this country EUR 900 million. Entrepreneurial deduction reduces tax revenue by EUR 130 million. So we have to take a little look at the proportions. And the issue that has just been discussed, the reduction in forest gifts, has only a tax impact of EUR 18 million. So the little one has the courage to look behind the curtain, too, what these numbers are. If you look through the color of a mere cause, you might forget the numbers. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, that one day there would be a situation in this country that we could be honoured to say to everyone that a job has been created for him, that trying is even more profitable. Today's large companies invest huge sums of money, specifically in robotic technology. A couple of my acquaintances have metal companies with large investments in recent years — not in hiring a new workforce, but in robotics. There saw metal pipes across the robot, weld the robot, do finishing the robot, paint the robot. And here you are crying out to us that if someone else is wrong to do the job. Wake up from the dream of a princess rose, my friends, at last. So return to this world what it is now. Jobs in service jobs — this is the case. There's old-age services, there's all kinds of cafes and stuff. Summer jobs can be created anywhere. Shops take people to work in the summer when there are a lot of customers. Tourists move, service jobs are created. That's what this entrepreneurship reduction favours, and that's what it's supposed to be. If it is not worth trying, do you, in some world, in an imaginary delirium world, imagine that the workforce will be employed if the company is not profitable? I would hope that in my municipality of Ilomants, every other host would be a millionaire and every other would become a millionaire. Then it would be great for society to live. Then everyone would have a job and everyone would have a good job. This is, of course, an imaginary situation, but I prefer to take that path rather than your complaining and intimidation, which will finally lead to us being in the hands of the International Monetary Fund and paying the interest of more than EUR 100 billion that Mr Li Andersson will gradually come to terms with it, because it will then be paid by the poorest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u181	I have sensed that there is a slight desire to use a few answers to this. So let's have a little debut. Everyone has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u182	Mr President! Yes, I think Mr Hoskonen's speech was so impressive that everyone else here was beginning to have something to say. Indeed, you have criticised others for not seeing this world in the same direction as the centre of green-colored thinking for ideological reasons. Do you not have any consciences after this speech, in which you propose an entrepreneurial reduction in forest income, that is to say a reduction in sales income from timber sales? So it is starting to go so far that Mr Hoskosen should also think about what is being said here in the toilet. What is more, you are not satisfied with that, but we have just presented a reduction in forest gifts, which would come on top of this, till, to be deducted. And this is not even a question of traditional income acquisition as we understand business, because forest income should not be subject to entrepreneurial deduction precisely because it is not the same form of income as entrepreneurial income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u183	Mr President! If I quote Mr Hoskosen's rhetoric, this entrepreneurial deduction means that for a small café entrepreneur a bus ticket and a car for a pharmacist. Everyone in this Chamber will probably be in favour of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, but instead of spending more than EUR 120 million on this deduction of Finnish Entrepreneurs, that money should be used for the temporary relief of the secondary costs of the first external employee's salary. In this way, the compensation is linked to employment rather than an inefficient gift.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u184	Mr President! It's too bad Congressman Kiviranta's gone. It would have been nice to continue a proper discussion with him, and I would have replied to him, but why not now to everyone else, that if we were to put an end to the rhetoric about the continuing increase in taxes. The representative, Krista Kiuru, came here specifically to explain the option of the SDP, which would help to reduce taxes to about the same amount as what is needed for this entrepreneurial deduction. Increasing the VAT threshold will cost more than EUR 100 million of lost tax revenue and a further reduction of the first external employee of 20 million during the pilot phase. This is indeed what I have taken up as a legislative initiative. These are very serious alternatives, which are specifically targeted at the smallest entrepreneurs. I am sure I will be taking the floor a little more broadly, but to that question raised by Kiviranta, why only 10,000 people did Antti Rinne raise it. It was an EU border. So now we are proposing to start negotiations with the EU on a clear increase in the VAT threshold that Estonia is currently conducting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u185	Mr President! I am now going to be the person who awakens Mr Hoskonen from his rosy dream.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u188	Mr President! Indeed, we all know that new jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises, and we all want to be there to support the creation of these jobs as much as possible. But this proposal does not create much new jobs. Just as the report states, this is not an effective means of doing so, and there are very conflicting views as to whether there is a great deal of job creation here. As such, for small entrepreneurs, an increase in income is welcome, it is like a small increase in wages for them, and they have earned it, because we know that many small entrepreneurs are going to have to get along very little. We Greens have therefore proposed that this reduction be paid up to EUR 50000, with a ceiling which would mean that a greater proportion of this money would go to low-income entrepreneurs, as it were, in the form of an increase in wages. However, it is so small that it is unlikely that new jobs will be created. It would be wiser to give birth to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u189	Mr President! I feel that Mr Hoskose has a bit of a guilty conscience,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u192	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen has accelerated himself to a rather interesting point in his own speech, but if we ignore it and get to the point in hand, then Mr Andersson quite well summed up what this entrepreneurial reduction is all about. This is a gift, and just as the government's proposal states, this will have no significant impact on employment, as Mr Hoskonen has said here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u195	Mr. Speaker! I feel that the Left Alliance and the Social Democrats and the Greens should be ashamed of the results of the last parliamentary term. You were blackmailing almost all taxes, except corporate tax, in which you gave 900 million to large companies, the largest companies that produce the best. What was left of this tax policy of yours? Over 100,000 new unemployed, falling GDP in three years — 12, 13, 14 — collapse of competitiveness and massive indebtedness, indebtedness of public finances. Fortunately, this government is now investing in the small and medium-sized enterprises in which jobs are created, and this reform under discussion is exactly what you forgot when you gave large companies the massive tax reductions. That's the kind of money that went into those dividends.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u196	Mr Kiuru asked for a reply at the time of Mr Andersson's speech. Did Mr Kiuru have anything to say about Mr Andersson's speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u197	Mr President! We agree with Mr Andersson, and I thought I would support this approach by Mr Andersson. It is an important, relevant point that this proposal is now about justifying entrepreneurship reduction through these elements of growth and employment, even if they are not generated even according to this government's own proposal. We have offered two other sensible measures to replace them and they would be about the same price tag. But now we come to the biggest word of the day: In other words, if this attempt is made to correct — as Mr Kankanniemi suggested in this speech — this corporate tax reduction, in fact, both according to this government's own proposal and according to expert consultations, about three quarters of those entitled to entrepreneurial deduction are taxed on earnings, which is therefore clearly lower than corporate taxation at the moment. So basically what you're trying to do here is not going to succeed, because actually this isn't going to be done as if this is what you're trying to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, when a debate arises on the basis of the intervention of a private MP, then the essence of the debate should be related to the issues raised by its representative. Mr Hoskonen opened this with his speech and Mr Kiuru's comments on Mr Andersson are not very good at implementing this principle. On the other hand, with regard to Mr Kankaanniemi, perhaps they will. The Kankaanniemi mentioned your name. — That is what I wanted to say in the meantime, and now I give the floor to Mrs Hoskonen, who began and whose speech was the mother of this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u199	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi well described this performance of your last parliamentary term on the tax front, and I must add that the large part of the 900 million that went into the corporate tax reform went to the US pension companies, which is where the money went to the Cayman Islands, I think. I thought we needed them here, not there. And now that $130 million comes to small entrepreneurs who want to work in this country, it's a terrible boogeyman for you. It's good that people know it and know it. But, Mr President, in my opinion, the Finnish unemployment situation will never improve if it is not profitable to try in this country. That's for sure. It's the only way. Otherwise, even those little jobs will be lost here, and the biggest loser will always be that poor person. It's always like this. Unemployment is a very serious phenomenon in this country and I admire those entrepreneurs who dare to invest in Finland. It is our future and not yours, that taxes are being tightened and then people start to wonder why people are not working here. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u200	Congressman Uotila, listing address.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u201	Mr President! Of these three happy bandits, mentioned by Mrs Haraka, who are in the pocket of the taxpayer, there is now a second reading. The objective of supporting entrepreneurship is very much to be welcomed. The growth in the number of small entrepreneurs and self-employed has been one of the strongest trends in working and economic life during the 21st century. Most of the 300,000 companies in Finland are small enterprises with fewer than 10 employees. There are already about 180,000 self-employed people. The special situation of small entrepreneurs has remained at the forefront of other policy issues such as the pension system, social security and unemployment security, taxation or corporate subsidies. Although the government's objective is correct, the same cannot be said of the way it has chosen. Entrepreneurial deduction is an expensive, inefficient and unequal reform. And, as has just been said in the debate, the government itself recognises that its employment and economic impact will remain weak. The cost of entrepreneurship reduction is over 120 million. It is very much in relation to its effects, which, even according to the impact assessments contained in the government’s proposal, would be uncertain and modest. The proposal would also increase income differentials, as it would benefit mainly the smallest and highest-income minority of entrepreneurs. More than 40 %, EUR 53 million, of tax reduction would target the highest income decile and already well over half, EUR 73 million, the two highest deciles. For a typical small entrepreneur, the benefits would be modest. Four out of five passenger companies have an annual income below EUR 30000. According to the government’s estimate, possible, albeit uncertain and moderate, growth could occur mainly in personnel companies producing more than EUR 100000, of which there are around 5000. Entrepreneurial deduction would also reduce the tax base and unnecessarily complicate the tax system. This is contrary to the Government Programme's policies. Taxation of different incomes would be increasingly differentiated. In addition, it should be noted that the taxation of private companies is not, as a rule, more "fair" than that of public limited companies. The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal states: "Many of the results of small enterprises are taxed as earned income. On average, more than 90 per cent of the earnings were taxed as earned income in 2014 for traders and around 77 per cent for shareholders of passenger companies. The taxation of earnings is light at low and medium-sized income levels, where the majority of small businesses are located. Due to low income formation and the associated low income tax, the taxation of small enterprises is now clearly lower in the majority of cases, even at the corporate tax rate of 20%. The proposed reduction would benefit most from the low-income high-income companies in euro, where the income generated by business is taxed largely as earned income. High-income companies, whose income is mainly taxed as capital income, would also benefit." From the point of view of fiscal fairness, it should also be borne in mind that, even in the hearing of the committee, private companies and farmers have different means of balancing results, such as the operating reserve, the compensation reserve for farmers, the provision for forestry entrepreneurs and the reduction in forest expenditure, which contribute to compensating for the difference in tax rates for public limited companies and other traders mentioned in the government proposal. These differences in tax bases should also be taken into account when comparing tax rates. Over the last decade, most of the new jobs have been created by SMEs, especially the smallest enterprises with fewer than five employees. Thus, employment statistics also show the facilitation of small businesses and support for the remuneration of the first employee. At second reading, we will be presenting a statement in addition to the motion for rejection, which is based on the fact that the government is preparing the following measures to facilitate the position of small businesses, which have already been mentioned here: a substantial increase in the threshold for VAT obligations, the facilitation of the remuneration of the first worker with automatic pay subsidies, and the facilitation of the coordination of unemployment security, small-scale entrepreneurship and paid employment, for example through combined insurance. So there are alternatives, much fairer and much more effective than those proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u202	Mr President! The Government of Sipilä — Soin — Orpo has carried out the transition to a paid VAT system — a very fine reform, a miracle that was not done in the past — to set up an equalisation of the costs of parenthood, which is an excellent reform for equality and fairness, and then, in the context of the Competitiveness Pact, a number of positive reforms. So now it's in the corporate world. Now we are dealing with an entrepreneurial deduction which is not directly linked to any corporate tax rebate, but in that way it is comparable that we know that during the last parliamentary term, the six-party government from the beginning of 2012 reduced corporate tax from 26% to 24.5% and from the beginning of 2014 to 20%, i.e. 900 million were lost in tax revenue. Good or bad? In many respects, good, but very poorly targeted, in the sense that the largest and best producing companies received the bulk of this tax reduction, which was very large. And as Mr Hoskonen has just said, much of these went through dividends to American pension funds, not to promote Finnish business and employment and well-being. When this happened, it is appropriate to consider the situation of smaller companies, and this government is the most entrepreneurially friendly government in the ages. I have been here since 1987 and there has not been such an entrepreneurial-friendly government in the country. It is now, it's good. We are now in the process of deducting entrepreneurs. Of course there are certain problems here, too. We don't have a perfect system. The effects of the abolition of the property tax presented by the previous government and then by Eero Heinäluoma were much greater and very difficult to justify. This is well-founded. First of all, this reduction comes entirely to Finnish owners and entrepreneurs operating in Finland. This will have a positive impact on employment. Entrepreneurs who work hard at high risk without adequate social security will receive a small, modest reduction in their taxation which will increase their fair standing compared to large companies. In this respect, this is quite in order. Mr President! I have been a little surprised when nothing has yet been said about pharmacists and lawyers on the left. I would now like to say that during the last period that corporate tax rebate, which the left was prepared to accept and which Minister Urplainen then took forward, gave the 420 public limited company pharmacies, a well-managed pharmacist, that big relief. In addition, nearly a thousand law firms operating in the form of limited liability companies received that deduction. Is it right that those who did not receive that at the time, i.e. SMEs, should not have a fair standing now? It's the right thing to do. It will cost some money, but it will also have a positive impact on employment. I considered that there are, for example, 154 pharmacists unemployed at the moment. They are highly skilled professionals with little other labour market than pharmacies. If the job opportunities of pharmacies, pharmacies are improved, these pharmacists will get jobs and society will benefit and they will gain a better position. There are really good effects here, and above all this is just. There are now proposals to revise VAT limits and others. They are also very expensive reforms and it is not necessarily clear that their effects will be better. It is also a good idea to reduce or take into account the costs of the first employee's salary or other, but why did the previous government, Mrs Aalto, fail to do so when it is now the most important objective for you?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u203	Mr President! This entrepreneurial deduction of Finnish Entrepreneurs — I correct — does not support the goal of a broad tax base and low tax rates set out in the Government Programme. This motion goes in exactly the opposite direction. Instead of further complexing the tax system, it should be simplified. This proposal does not support employment, it is out of the euro, the small euro and the means by which employment can be genuinely supported. As I pointed out during the debate, instead of spending some EUR 120 million on this inefficient reduction, that money should be used to compensate for the additional costs of the first external worker's salary on a fixed-term basis. In this way, the compensation is linked directly to employment rather than to this inefficient gift. This proposal is also based on a false argument regarding the taxation of different forms of company, as Mr Harakka has pointed out, among other things, and Mr Uotila has pointed out. When you look at the tax package, the taxation of partnerships is even cheaper than that of limited companies. If the taxation of passenger companies is to be brought into line with public limited liability companies, it should even be tightened up, not reduced, if that is the basis and argument for taking them to the same line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u206	Mr President! I've been a small business owner myself for about 30 years, so I'm familiar with things. I therefore hope that every effort will be made to improve the position of small entrepreneurs, self-employed persons, SMEs. What has puzzled me here, both in this debate and in other debates, is that it is unclear whether it is a good thing or a bad thing that the reduction in corporation tax was made during the previous regime. If this is a bad and wrong measure, then the current government has all the power to increase corporation tax, but I have not heard such a proposal in this Chamber yet. Then it has been said many times here that we have lost EUR 900 million of tax revenue per year as a result. This argument is simply not true. It was the static number used when this change was made. But in fact, just as representatives Hoskonen and Kangasniemi have said, sometimes taxing can lead to positive results in terms of tax revenue, so here too I would like you to decide, however it is. Has it happened that the tax loss was not so great? And if the tax loss to excess is a bad thing, as it is admittedly, what is the logic in that, then, that this tax loss now would require an additional tax loss also for other forms of company? I simply do not understand this logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u217	Mr President! One of the reasons for the entrepreneurship reduction is to provide non-competitors with a significant reduction in corporation tax in the last parliamentary term, even in part, in the form of a limited liability company. The left-wing opposition has spoken loudly today about the so-called apothecary reduction, and that is of course rhetoric, which is one of the prerogatives of the opposition. Let them have it, I will not condemn them for this term in itself. It is understandable, however, that higher incomes will also have a larger reduction, but this has also been the case with regard to the reduction in corporation tax, which was made during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u220	Mr President! As we know, jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore good to look for ways to encourage these companies to recruit new workers. However, this proposed tax reduction is not an effective means of creating new jobs, although it is justified by the government. If we want new jobs, the most effective way would be to reduce the additional costs of hiring an employee. That is what we Greens have proposed in our shadow budget. When the Finance Minister, Orpo, introduced this law, I asked him how much money spent on this tax reduction, 120 million, could have reduced the additional costs of hiring an employee and whether this would have been a more effective way of creating new jobs. In fact, I had to ask the same question a couple of times before the Minister answered. He did not have the right answer, nor did he really know whether this proposal actually has any employment effects. The committee has also stated in its report that this proposal does not necessarily have an impact on employment. This presentation can therefore be seen as a raise for entrepreneurs. It is, in itself, to be welcomed, for most entrepreneurs are left with a very small salary, despite the enormous amount of work they do. The Greens feel that entrepreneurs and self-employed people have earned their raise. However, we do not see the need to direct the increase that this proposal gives to the most profitable entrepreneurs, such as doctors and lawyers, at a time of scarcity. More than half of the 120 million entrepreneurship reduction would go to two upper income categories. We therefore propose setting a ceiling of EUR 50000 for entrepreneurship reduction. All entrepreneurs, regardless of their size, would receive deductions up to that limit. It would cut the benefits of entrepreneurship reduction for the most successful, but the incentive effect would remain in other companies. At the same time, the model
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u221	Mr President! Since excellent speeches have been made here on the problems of this bill, I thought I would approach it through the ongoing reform of another government. Mr Kankaanniemi and Mr Savio, can you tell us which population group is the lowest-income group in Finland at the moment? It's a young adult student. Can you tell me which individual benefit is the largest government surgery, that is, an individual benefit? It's for student support. Do you know how much the government is going to save with this massive surgery on student support? 122 million, i.e. it actually corresponds quite well to the amount of money that the government is now giving to the most high-income entrepreneurs, with this reduction in entrepreneurship, despite the fact that, as the proposal shows, there is no doubt that this will have any significant impact on employment or entrepreneurship, despite the fact that, as has been pointed out in the speeches, this argument used by the government parties on the fairness of tax treatment is not true when it comes to self-employed entrepreneurs who are raising their income and are making relatively small profits, and despite the fact that there is no doubt that the greatest euro-denominated benefit of this reduction will come to those already well-earned entrepreneurs whose business is already profitable. As I mentioned in my previous speech, this is purely a question of a gift of money which the government has wanted to give to this group of entrepreneurs and has wanted to take.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u222	Mr President! I thought I'd go over some more estimates on this entrepreneurial discount. I was thinking of starting with who would actually benefit from this new reduction. Let us start with the simple fact that the overwhelming majority of those entitled to self-reduction are still far from paying the 26.8% tax, or the 30% tax at the lowest level of the capital tax, which would otherwise be more favourable than income tax if the annual earnings exceeded EUR 39000 per year. With such low incomes, income taxation is in fact a cheaper option for a large number of these entrepreneurs, who will be entitled to this so-called entrepreneurial deduction. According to the Government's own proposal, more than 90 per cent of the income of traders, 77 per cent of the income of shareholders of passenger companies and 55 per cent of the income of agricultural operators are taxed precisely according to earned income. The fact is, therefore, that this very low income formation and low income tax clearly means that the taxation of small businesses is much lower than the corporate tax rate, 20%. Thus, in practice, three quarters of those entitled to entrepreneurship deductions are already taxed according to earned income. Well, once that is the case, of course, we will have to discuss together what this means in practice. In this proposal, we have justified entrepreneurship reduction and the need for different forms of enterprise in relation to taxation. It has therefore been thought that this proposal will correct the gap in the calculation of corporation tax at the time, and now would be the time to support these other forms with this new reduction. In fact, it is still not possible to justify the proposal by different forms of taxation, but rather to compare the total tax burden and income tax on profits distributed by an unlisted limited company. Expert consultations have also shown that general reductions in income tax are not enough, and have assumed that if the government wants to put those who work in an entrepreneurial position in a better tax position than those who receive wages, then this should also be clearly stated. However, these arguments are now used without justification and are used, even though the government's proposal does not open such an angle. Mr President! The income distribution effects have also been discussed during the evening. In practice, 150, or about half, of those entitled to entrepreneurship deductions, or future recipients, make a very small profit when the median income is less than EUR 10000. What, then, is the average? That is not what is said in this government proposal. But the annual income of EUR 10000 would amount to between EUR 50 and EUR 150 per year. And when this amount is deducted from the taxable profit, the amount is in fact very small. For example, if that income is around EUR 10,000 of earned income, then in practice EUR 40 is spoken of. What is unusual about the whole proposal is that it does not distinguish between the euro and the percentage. Yes, the highest tithe of income, that is to say, in this proposal, benefits in particular in percentage terms, and it is very little to be discussed. When we look at these incomes left in the hands of the highest tithe, they increase twice as much as the income of the eighth revenue decile. And yes, these tables show that the benefits will increase significantly in every income category, and thus it seems that entrepreneurship reduction will increase the regressiveness of the taxation of traders and private companies. And the aim of the government's proposal is in fact, when this is allowed, an increase in the regressiveness of taxation. Well, then let's see who this government proposal actually benefits. The aim is to calculate — on the basis of the speeches made in the Chamber — the taxation of an entrepreneur at the level of a limited liability company, as was the case here. But it is only in 20% of these cases, and in this respect it can be said that it is only in the group where there is talk of very good-income entrepreneurs and professionals. I think it is right to ask in this Chamber whether this was the intention of the government to target only those who are particularly well-off entrepreneurs and professionals in this way. We must also take account of the fact that growth in the category of high-income entrepreneurs does not necessarily occur in the same way as those in the Chamber from the point of view of employment. In other words, entrepreneurs who are actually engaged in their profession in a business form, who could also be active in the field of income tax, such as private doctors and lawyers, are important beneficiaries of this. And now we have to ask you how many self-involved private doctors or sole-involved lawyers will hire more staff for this deduction. Then we will come back to the question of whether these are just. Is this entrepreneurship reduction genuinely divided exactly as the opposition has suspected, that is, unevenly and unjustly, or what is this really about? This proposal will not help in practice a low-income entrepreneur but will give an even greater advantage to a high-income entrepreneur, including a percentage. In this situation, it must be interpreted as simply a great gift, free of charge, rather than a policy for employment and growth, in a situation where entrepreneurship, economic growth and employment could be much better supported in quite other ways by the end result. We have argued that we would prefer to make an additional right to deduct the salary costs of the first external worker, and, like the legislative initiative that has been tabled, it would really emphasise the fact that, above all, there is support for self-employed workers. And another way of responding to this same amount of euro that is being used for this would be to increase the threshold for VAT duty from the current EUR 10000 to EUR 30000. And the point is whether or not we want to start these negotiations with the Commission. In this debate in the Chamber, it seems that we are still not ready for it. Mr President! With regard to these growth effects, it is worth noting that entrepreneurship reduction is the wrong and costly way to achieve growth. The same money can be spent, as we have proposed, i.e. some 120 million stakes in the price range can be strengthened by means that I have just listed. In this case, these means, which the government is proposing here, would not bring real, genuine growth efforts, because even the government's proposal recognises this. The Government proposal states that: [Second Vice-President ArtoSatonen : I note that the 10-minute reference period has already been used. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u225	Mr. Speaker! This tax reduction of EUR 120 million is justified and correct. It remains entirely in Finland for Finnish hardworking entrepreneurs who deserve it. They use this to increase domestic consumer demand. It brings work, services, etcetera. So it's highly justified. I raised the issue of the employment of 154 pharmacists as an example of the fact that this too has an impact on their employment, but, as Mrs Harakka will understand, it is only a small part of this whole. This reduction affects a huge number of small entrepreneurs, and I am proud that this government is doing this to remember these. Indeed, last season, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, there was a drastic reduction in corporation tax of 900 million, and much of it went abroad. Even you Social Democrats had no evidence at the time that this would result in job creation at home. There was no such guarantee, and today we have no certainty as to how many jobs it has brought. It is certain that the dividend party grew from it, and those dividend parties have been celebrated on a number of continents outside Finland. Mr President! It was Minister Claes Andersson, who cut student support. Now we moved from student money to that side of the loan, which is justifiable. Finnish Entrepreneurs have supported this reform, and when
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u226	Mr President! I myself have already made a long speech and I very much welcome the fact that we have a pro-entrepreneurship government in this country. The jobs that are often the subject of concern in this Chamber will continue to be created by companies. We politicians, our governments and we parliamentarians cannot create them, but we can make it easier and possible to create and create an atmosphere in which more work and employment are created. As has been said earlier in this debate, during the last parliamentary term, corporate tax was reduced by 20%, and this tax reduction was mainly directed at larger companies. However, the reduction did not benefit either partnerships or traders, but last season's tax evasions, on the other hand, concerned all companies and forms of business. In other words, the reduction only went to large limited companies through corporate tax, but the tax evasion was carried out on all companies and corporate forms. About half of the SMEs are non-public limited companies. Since then, the total taxation of these partnerships has been about 5% more stringent than that of employees in the corresponding income brackets, and I also believe that it is a question of fairness that those who are self-employed and employ themselves and perhaps 1 to 2 other people should also be given this incentive. And while this has been criticised by the Social Democrats — I have never seen them as an entrepreneurial party before and I do not like it even after this debate — I personally appreciate the fact that Finnish entrepreneurs have praised this, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u227	Yes, Mr Heinonen was not here for most of the debate, but he had a strong opinion on it. This name-calling is not going to make any headway now that we are competing for who is the most pro-entrepreneurship and who is the pro-entrepreneurshipist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u230	Mr President! Since much of the beneficiaries of this entrepreneurial reduction will gain less than EUR 100 per year, in reality the incentive to start or continue their business is quite non-existent. I think that Mr Haraka's logic and formula shows that the government has been so temperate here at the end of very low income entrepreneurs that about EUR 10 per month will benefit from this benefit. We have gone through all the problems of this proposal very carefully here, and if there had been a genuine desire to make an entrepreneurial deduction that would have encouraged the smallest of us to try, then, of course, we would have addressed what is the real amount of euro that this low-income entrepreneur can get. In this case, it is incomprehensible that this proposal is aimed at those who are already making significant profits as entrepreneurs. This income-sharing effect is a problem in this proposal and has not been recognised by the government parties. Why was this done?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u231	Mr President! When it is said here that who is pro-entrepreneurship and who is not, it is in the final game that action is decisive. Speech and promises and fine words are easy to say, but let us now put a few things into what the present government is doing. Equalisation of the cost of parenthood, a major issue for entrepreneurs, especially women-dominated sectors, is a question of fairness, it is a question of equality. It will enter into force in April next year. Paid VAT, a tax that small Finnish entrepreneurs have long been waiting for, i.e. that companies no longer operate as banks and pay in advance but only at the time when they receive income, they pay that VAT, affects some 190,000 Finnish entrepreneurs. Then the entrepreneurial deduction that Finnish entrepreneurs have been hoping for. Now they are getting it, and they have also described it and pointed out that it is a model that they want to use, and it is also a question of justice. As I described earlier, the actions of our previous government, which in themselves were right and worthy of support, the coalition was supporting them, have helped larger companies and limited companies, but these small, duds, barbers and others, including, of course, the pharmacists whom the Social Democrats here despise with a rather harsh word that works very hard with their businesses, have been excluded and now this entrepreneurial reduction is being targeted. In my view, it is a good thing that our taxation is thus balanced. As I said, these small businesses pay up to 5 percentage points higher taxes at the moment than those who earn correspondingly work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u232	Mr Heinonen spoke here about the need to take action. Yes, I think I am prepared to follow very closely, and I am sure that you will also create a monitoring system in this Chamber that we will be able to say, in two years' time, whether this costly reduction in entrepreneurial activity had any effect on employment and growth. It is well known that Finnish Entrepreneurs, as a representative organisation, have pushed this proposal very hard, but no group of tax experts, such as a working group led by Martti Hetemäki or anything else, has seen a measure such as a reduction in entrepreneurship as important, let alone necessary. In fact, the expert who was heard by the committee said quite frankly that this is not a question of tax correction or fairness, it is a matter of tax advantage for one special group, and that is the case. I welcome the fact that Finnish entrepreneurs have come to our side in raising the VAT threshold. This is the right marching order. Not that we in this Chamber are creating the positions of Finnish Entrepreneurs and they are directing our decision-making, but that we are presenting initiatives and we are delighted that not only the Entrepreneurship Women's Association, but also Finnish Entrepreneurs have now finally turned their sleds and seen the light. That's the order we're going in.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u233	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, the payment-based VAT system, the compensation of parenting costs and the many measures in the Competitiveness Pact that represent or promote entrepreneurship are an important whole, and this is a partial addition to it. But what is even more important is that the Government Programme is a strong entity that strengthens industrial policy, employment and the economy, and as part of it this is a small but significant reform for SMEs. But it is precisely this that we have a government programme, which is now being implemented with determination, that has brought about a turning point in the economy. As your Social Democrats' Minister for Finance and the Minister for Labour grew unemployment, debt grew at a terrible rate and GDP fell, so now all of these have turned to growth, that is to say positive growth. Employment is improving, GDP is increasing, investment plans are plentiful. This reflects the fact that this policy has brought about a change and is most important for SMEs. SMEs, as subcontractors and directly through the growth in demand for services, are getting more and more jobs and the wheels are spinning, and we are getting rid of this economic misery that has come about for various reasons over the past seven years. The last parliamentary term was sad, as stated in Raimo Sailas’s Lama Artist book. He said that it was the worst government in Finland in his day, the most failed government. Martin Miettunen's government was the second worst. It understood the difference quickly,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u234	At this stage, answers will no longer be given. It is possible to ask for the floor and the debate can well be resumed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u235	Mr President! We have some 300,000 companies in Finland and they employ over 1.4 million Finnish people, and this is a significant contribution to the running and financing of the Finnish welfare society. That is why I think it is important that Finnish entrepreneurs are valued and understood and heard, as the government has heard. It is not bad that if you have ears, those ears will also hear and you can act if you see that it makes sense to the whole. This will certainly be a piece of work, and I myself have been in this Chamber for many years and during the last term of government have been making it clear that all decisions should always be reflected on whether to increase or reduce work and employment in this country. These measures are now those that increase work and employment and are therefore good. One where everyone can, of course, objectively see how Finnish entrepreneurs currently view this situation is an entrepreneurial barometer. I can't remember the last time it showed up, so the confidence of Finnish companies and entrepreneurs in this situation has improved significantly, they are ready to look to the future with more confidence than before. It is precisely these measures that play an important role here, but also, for example, the competitiveness pact negotiated jointly by employees and employers. They will then radiate to these decisions, what has happened now, that we will have orders for ships, that we will be invested in, and that new jobs and employment will be created in Finland, and for a long time the unemployment rate has also fallen and growth has been increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u236	Mr President! I asked for a reply because Mr Kankaanniemi said that, according to both his own and his own words, the previous government failed badly in its task. Well, now that we look at this government, we can begin to compare how this government succeeds. It can already be said that you will be left in history in the Guinness record book, that this government has immersed more than any government in the past, and sensibilities according to the modern English dictionary mean all kinds of hunting, the result of which you have withdrawn more performances than any government has ever done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u239	Mr President! The opposition has now, once again, made a lot of criticisms against this government proposal, and quite a lot of other proposals, but I would also like to make a few points myself. Mr Kankanniemi and Mr Heinonen have just presented a number of positive measures by the current government, and I do not want to repeat them here any more, but I would like to add to the list that this government will, among other things, increase the amount of household allowance, which will contribute to improving the conditions for entrepreneurship. Similarly, this government has both decided last autumn and now this autumn will decide on income tax reductions. They improve not only the purchasing power of ordinary employees but also the position of many low-income entrepreneurs and also the conditions for receiving and employing work. In addition, next spring, the Government will discuss new measures to improve the operating conditions of SMEs and other companies, such as the investment reserve, which has been discussed publicly. Mr President! All these measures I mentioned and mentioned earlier contribute to improving the conditions for entrepreneurship and employment. No way alone will do so indefinitely, but together they are significant, and, as has been said today, they contribute to a positive and entrepreneurial climate in our country. This is exactly what Finland needs and, of course, new jobs, and that is what it needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u240	Mr. Speaker! Speaking of that silhouette, I had the honour of being in government negotiations in 2011 and 2015. And when the six-party government was formed from right to left or left to right in 2011, there was really no reform in the government programme. And then they all failed what they were trying to do, because within the government the parties could hardly agree on anything, and that government — or even two governments during that period, two prime ministers — did not bring any proposals or reforms to the House. In other words, there was no need for Parliament to withdraw any proposals when the government could not even make them here. And that's why the Finnish economy went down like a cow's tail. So this situation is completely different now. Now there is a huge amount of action in the Government Programme. In a short period of time, two or three weeks, they were recorded, and it is clear that when they are prepared in ministries by experts, there will be a large number of presentations, points that will only be found at the point when they are not wise to carry them out and then they will be withdrawn or abandoned. And this is what a wise, responsible government does. I would ask Mr Kiuru and Mr Harakka to read the biography of the writer of the book of Jyrki Water People, Raimo Sailas, a high-level socialist official. There are very interesting texts on recent history and also on the activities of the last government and social democrats, among others, in this decade and in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u241	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 26/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u242	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Coalition Party does not accept the shadow economy, the Coalition Party does not accept tax havens, the Coalition Party does not accept tax evasion. That is why it is now great that an agreement has finally been reached with Portugal to abolish the tax exemption on pension income. A similar agreement has been reached in the past with Spain and with Germany, and there is still a negotiation with France which I understand is currently under way. In the past, taxation has not worked with Portugal, Spain and France and tax exemption has attracted tax exemptions where private sector pensions have not had to be taxed in the country of origin. Thus, according to the previous tax treaty, those who move to Portugal have received their pensions in a clean hand. The tax on public pensions has already been paid in the past, but not on the private side of occupational pensions or on executive pensions. It is good that these tax havens in the Mediterranean are now being closed. Some countries are still left out. I understand that Japan and some African countries, for example, are outside. They may not be of great importance here as a whole, but it is good that negotiations with these countries should also be opened and updated to update these agreements, the OECD Model Tax Convention, which has also been used in this agreement with Portugal. So now, in future, the right to tax is guaranteed in Finland, where work has been done and where wages have been paid for the work. The previous agreement dates back to 1970, which means that the need for updating has certainly come in these decades, and this applies to around 200 to 300 Finns overall. This does not bring great tax revenue, but it is above all a question of fairness, and, as I said at the outset, the informal economy, tax havens and tax evasion must not be accepted or ignored, and it is therefore good that this tax agreement has now been reached with Portugal during a certain transitional period and also that Portugal itself accepts this. This matter has been put to the finish by Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, who said that this Portuguese tax treaty is the right solution for the credibility and fairness of the tax system. It is easy to agree with these words of Minister Orpo and to say with satisfaction that this loophole is now also being closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u243	Mr President! It is very easy to agree with what Mr Heinonen said earlier, and I would like to express my thanks to both the Government for this tax agreement he has negotiated with Portugal and, of course, for the tax agreements that have already been negotiated with other countries, and also to thank the Committee on Finance for the rapid unanimous report on the ratification of the tax agreement. With regard to a number of other legislative proposals, the opposition has also made a lot of criticism today, but at least not with regard to this tax agreement, at least not yet, and hardly a long debate on this will be reached today. As Mr Heinonen said earlier, I believe that a new tax agreement is being negotiated with France, and I hope that the negotiations will also proceed as quickly as possible in that area. Mr President! Progress in the area of tax treaties is very much to be welcomed in many ways and, of course, all the work to prevent tax evasion, both nationally and internationally, is also very important. In fact, the most important thing in terms of progress in these tax treaties is their message to citizens and taxpayers about their equality. It is therefore of the utmost importance that, in these difficult economic times, this message be passed on to our people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u244	Mr President! Mr Savio is absolutely right. There will be no criticism from the opposition, but praise for the fact that this tax agreement has been concluded. It's been done for a long time, and now it's in the finish line. This fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is, of course, the big theme of the SDP, as has been heard many times in this Chamber, and even in these small matters it is an important message, even though it is not the biggest tax revenue in the world at present. As Mr Savio said there, this is above all a question of justice: that people can experience that tax refugees do not have privileges compared to all those who, here at the end of Finland, take care of their affairs and obligations. This is all the more important in that, as these tax agreements grow, there is beginning to be a situation where the Mediterranean countries will no longer find such tax refugee paradises now that and if the French agreement is reached. Then, if you want to enjoy special tax benefits, the committee's expert says you have to go to Africa, and I do not believe that Tanzania is just as attractive even if the tax advantage is obtained. This is commendable progress, a small part of the great work that has been carried out at EU level and is making real rapid progress: the effort to pay taxes where the result has been achieved, and that everyone should:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u245	Mr President! We are all quite familiar with this because there have been a lot of shots put in it. We must thank the current government for continuing this work, first of all, to prevent tax evasion. In this regard, this new agreement on the avoidance of double taxation shows that you are committing yourself to these efforts which have already been made and which are now being continued here. I think it is a credit that this agreement has been concluded by the government, and in that respect it is also a good thing to give thanks for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u246	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 27/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u247	Mr President! The bill proposes to extend the special law on tax relief for severely disabled entrepreneurs for another two years, i.e. until the end of 2018. It is important that people with severe disabilities should also be able to take part in working life as entrepreneurs if they so wish and maintain their own motivation and mental health in this way too. The purpose of the Special Act was to take time to find a more permanent solution. It should be borne in mind that the provision of a special fixed-term law cannot be regarded as a satisfactory solution for anyone, so it is appropriate to clarify in the context of the OTE project the possibility of replacing VAT relief for disabled entrepreneurs with direct support for disabled entrepreneurs. The OTE-tip project is intended to present a proposal for measures in the course of 2018. Since 1995, this law, which exempts entrepreneurs with disabilities from VAT, has been extended on a temporary basis. The disability cooperation group of the Parliament has addressed the situation of disabled entrepreneurs and the unequal, weaker position compared to other entrepreneurs. We have sent the Chairman of the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance to Lintilä the appeal of disability organisations to find a more permanent solution that treats all disabled entrepreneurs more equally. Thank you to the Tax Division for taking note of the appeal. This initiative has been signed by representatives of all the groups in the tax section. The Disability Federation and the Federation of the Visually Impaired have put forward a more sustainable system on several occasions than a fixed-term separate law to safeguard the position of entrepreneurs with severe disabilities. In the Finnish Disability Policy Programme, Vampo, there is also a proposal for a measure to examine the reimbursement of VAT relief for disabled entrepreneurs with direct support for disabled entrepreneurs. The obligation to promote the issue comes from the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was ratified in Finland last summer. A disabled person needs tools and other adjustments to working conditions, such as an accessible working environment, in order to be able to act fully as an entrepreneur. Being an entrepreneur is an attractive and interesting option for many people with disabilities, as it has not been easy to employ people with disabilities. Several additional costs will be incurred by an entrepreneur with severe disabilities. He may have to rely on other persons to help transport, billing, bookkeeping, and the transfer of equipment to be replaced. There are shortcomings in the current procedure to be renewed every couple of years. For example, limiting the current VAT exemption to crafts and repair professions alone does not correspond to today's business structure. Disabled entrepreneurs in the creative sector are excluded. In addition, access to the aid includes consideration and inequality, depending on the region where the disabled entrepreneur applies for VAT exemption. Various studies of compensation measures have been carried out over the years, but without success. The disability group 96 proposed to waive VAT exemption for people with severe disabilities and to replace it with subsidies from the Ministry of Trade and Industry. At that time, the Minister of Finance, on the proposal of the working group, said: "The replacement of tax subsidies with direct subsidies is in line with the general tax policy of the VM and contributes to the clarity and transparency of the aid policy. Direct payments are better suited to support the business of people with disabilities than VAT relief, as this will enable it to be more evenly targeted at all disabled entrepreneurs." Mr President! I warmly support the adoption of this legislative initiative and hope that a lasting solution will be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u248	Mr President! Indeed, this bill, which the Committee on Finance has advocated in its report, on tax reductions for people with severe disabilities is very much to be welcomed. As Mr Karimäki said, this bill has received broad support across party boundaries and has indeed been signed by all the members of the Tax Division, including myself. The voice of disability organisations has indeed been heard in the decision-making process. The aim is to strengthen the position of people with severe disabilities in the labour market. After all, this is a special law which Parliament has always used to extend for two years, despite the fact that the long-term desire of the committee has also been to make the law permanent. As stated in this report by the Committee on Finance, the adoption of a specific law with a fixed term cannot be regarded as a satisfactory solution for anyone. The report also states that it is important for people with severe disabilities to be able to take part in employment as entrepreneurs if they so wish and to maintain their own motivation and mental health in this way too. On these grounds, among other things, I consider the adoption of this initiative to be an important hand-out here in Parliament's plenary session, even though, as I have already said, a more permanent solution would be definitely better for all parties involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u249	Mr President! As has already been said here, this bill is quite welcome. In his speech, Mr Karimäki well explained how business activities can be the only option for people with severe disabilities to actually participate in the labour market, and it is important that they are encouraged, as is done with this tax relief. As stated in this report, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has started the road to working life for the part-time disabled, i.e. the OTE tip project, and it is intended to be completed, proposals for measures, during 2018. Now, with this proposal, the tax relief will continue until then, and, as has been the case in previous speeches, it would be good to have a permanent solution to this situation. This raises the question and the wish that it would have been a good thing for the government now that the sugar tax has been abolished and we know that we are planning a sugar tax, in the same way we have been prepared to continue the sugar tax temporarily until the sugar tax has been fixed. If it is known that a permanent change is being prepared, then it is bad that, just before then, the corresponding tax, then the sweet tax, will be abolished and awaited when a new one is being prepared. This is a bit of the same idea now that we should give this tax relief a little more time and wait for permanent solutions to be found for that OTE project. In this case, this has been the case, and it is
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u250	Mr President! It is a pleasure to join these earlier speeches as one of the authorising officers of this legislative initiative, as a signatory. This was indeed completely unanimous and unanimous, this section's view that the entrepreneurship of people with disabilities should be supported, as well as that we would like to see a more permanent solution to this, and that work will certainly be carried out. It was also appropriate and very important when Mr Karimäki previously placed this in broader frameworks, i.e. the need to promote the contribution of people with disabilities and people with part-time work in Finnish working life. The high unemployment rate and the still higher demands on the labour market are easy to achieve so that those who are considered to be even slightly capable of working part-time are easily left behind. Then it is worth remembering the old wisdom that each one of us is handicapped in some way. I am very capable of working in the work that my own father did, that is, in the job of a carpenter. I would like to warmly support this work. Finally, in the debate in the tax section, it became clear that already a moderate number of people, especially craftsmen, are so low-income that this current ceiling of EUR 10000 has already benefited them. But this is another reason and another opportunity to solve this problem, including by raising the VAT threshold to about 30,000, so that before that it could be calculated by the Ministry of Finance, if it were to be so happy that this matter could be resolved permanently.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u251	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-01-ps-124.u252	Mr President! With this bill, the Left-wing Union has wanted to make a concrete contribution to what has been discussed here in Parliament throughout the year. The parental leave system needs to be reformed to better meet family needs as well as gender equality. We propose an amendment to the Health Insurance Act to replace current maternity, paternity and parental leave with a new model of parental leave, which would extend parental leave to 18 months, and would divide this leave into three periods of approximately 6 months, one of which would be used by a mother, one parent and one father. The rules on partial parental allowance would be in line with existing legislation. In the model we propose, the father can also use the 54-day paternity leave at the time he wishes to take the current one when the mother is on maternity or parental leave. For the rest, the rule would be that parental leave should be agreed between the mother and the father at different times. Both parental leave should be taken at the latest by the time the child is 3 years old. We want single parents, students and entrepreneurs to be able to take parental leave as well as distant parents who are separated from their children. A single parent would be entitled to parental leave of the same length as a family of two parents. In addition, parental rights and benefits must be extended equally to families of same-sex couples. What, then, are the main problems of the current system? The current model of parental leave has been developed by drop over several decades. The result is an old-fashioned patchwork system which does not meet its objectives of promoting children's well-being and gender equality. The current system also makes it difficult to distribute the free on an equal footing. At the moment, fathers in Finland are using the free time assigned to them. Of the actual parental leave, only 3% are held by fathers, and only 34 percent of fathers are taken after the parental leave period of 54 days. The reasons lie largely in the attitude towards gender division of labour and working practices and attitudes. The study shows that fathers mainly use the very free ones that are specifically named for fathers. Another problem is the length of the current system. It's too short. The current parental leave ends when the child is less than one year old. Thereafter, the child’s home care should be continued with home care support or taken to day care. Since the parental allowance ends when the child is about 9 months old, it is currently very common for the child to continue to be taken care of at home with the help of home care. 89 per cent of families use home care support for at least some time, and the user is almost always a mother. However, only 16% of families use home care support fully, i.e. until the child is about 3 years old. If a child could be treated with earnings-related daily allowance until the age of one and a half and the corresponding use of home care allowance would be reduced, this would particularly improve the livelihood of families with young children. The poverty rate of families with children turned up in 2012 after counting for a few years. The poverty rate has risen most sharply in the infant families of two guardians. Mr President! The reform of the parental leave system is important for many reasons. The possibility of sharing care leave more evenly with the family, if so desired, would improve the position of women in the labour market and the employment of women. Above all, it would give both parents an equal opportunity to spend time at home with their children.
