ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u1	The 2nd issue of the daily order is the Government’s statement to Parliament on the affiliations of the members of the Government. According to the Rules of Procedure, Parliament does not take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u3	Mr President! As Mr Arhinmäki said, the spending limits debate is on the way, and when we discussed the EU policy strategy for this year in the Committee on Budgets today, these recent reports on Panama papers were also on the agenda. We need three things to close tax evasion, the shadow economy, financial crime and tax havens. We need political will, and I am glad to say that yesterday the Minister of Finance clearly signalled this. We need all the means that Mr Arhinmäki listed as concrete means of intervention, more control and so on. But we also need resources to implement that will state and to implement those means. In Sweden, for comparison purposes, similar controls are carried out by 200 tax officials, we have between 15 and 20. This cannot continue, and hopefully this will also be taken into account in the spending limits debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u4	Madam President! So-called Panama papers do a very big service for the whole world. A great many countries suffer from the fact that the wealthiest and, in part, even the most influential people in the countries are not paying their taxes and making use of these tax havens — I would say, tax improvements — for tax avoidance. When we are called upon to act from our government, it is worth remembering that the previous government, that is to say the government of the last parliamentary term, was already very active in the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime. For example, the proposal in Parliament which would have banned the use of illegally obtained evidence was changed so that, for example, it is precisely in such situations that these can be used even though they have been obtained illegally. Today, the last report adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is a report which presents a reversal of the burden of proof in certain situations of financial crime. So we will, but it is quite true that more needs to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u5	Mr President! The Panama papers clearly showed that it is essential that Finland is the world's leading player in the public domain of ownership information. This is the case at the moment, as Finnish owners' data on Finnish ownership are legally transparent and identifiable. The Finnish model is one that the rest of Europe must follow in order to tackle tax evasion. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that the government's proposal for portfolio shares, which will once again arrive here in Parliament, severely, perhaps fatally, undermines the transparency of ownership. It specifically enables Finnish ownership to be transferred to foreign management registers. It is possible that even the majority are hiding from the Finnish tax authorities. The Finnish model must be maintained and this watering down must be withdrawn by national legislation. Transparency must be increased and not reduced, so I appeal to the government: do not turn Finland into Panama.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u6	Mr President! The tax evasion raised by Panama paper has been widely criticised, but it is not enough to moralise and terrorise banks providing tax evasion and tax haven services, but rather to put an end to tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. Mr President! The payment of taxes must not depend on voluntaryity and on the morals of individuals; everyone, including the rich, must participate in the payment of taxes. This requires that we legislators close loopholes in the law. It requires international cooperation and EU cooperation from us and calls for a systematic and adequately resourced fight against the black economy. I would like the government to provide us with a plan on how to combat the shadow economy and how to tackle aggressive tax planning and tax havens in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u7	Mr President! The Panama papers reveal this adverse effect of tax havens to a very large extent, namely that the links between political and economic elites can be hidden in this way behind the curtains of a secret in the world — that is to say, the very wealthiest people and corruption links are revealed there. At the same time, EU countries alone will lose up to EUR 1000 billion as a result of this tax evasion. Finland loses billions of euros a year in the black economy, and the losses of corporate taxes are estimated at hundreds of millions of euros here too. This is our common challenge to put this right, and I strongly hope now that: The Sipilä Government would bring to the House the whole of how it implements the international anti-tax avoidance action plan, which was adopted during the last government term, which is good. To date, the government in the EU has actually blocked some of the means of tax avoidance and has proposed this management register as a possibility for Finns abroad. It's not a very good book, and now we need to change direction right away.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u8	Mr President! On the other hand, I too think it is very good that this issue of Panama has been made public. It will speed up these efforts now. I would like to remind you that we have today discussed the development policy report and made a report on it, we have completed it. In that report, too, we stress and emphasise this very same thing. That is a shocking situation for poor developing countries, which are leading to huge amounts of capital outflows, illegal transfers of money, because of aggressive tax planning. Much more capital comes from poor countries than, for example, development cooperation can ever be shown there, so this is not just about us, of course, as we all know, but particularly about these less developed countries. I think that this is an excellent thing for us to tackle this strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u9	Madam President! The ugly face of international tax evasion emerged in this so-called Panamanian paper case. The key ministers of the Finnish Government have condemned this tax evasion in very loud terms, even by force, but these actions are also needed. Just as has been said here, a representative of the Finnish Tax Administration who visited Yle's topical program stated that in Finland we have 15 officials investigating international tax evasion, while in Sweden, for example, there are 200 in the control country. In its own alternative budget, the Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party proposed that 10 million be added to this year's research into tax evasion and, in particular, to the recruitment of tax inspectors. The framework debate would now have the opportunity to really show the colors and actually act in favour of this. Honest businesses will benefit when tax evaders are brought under control, and just as Mrs Paloniemi said here, global justice will increase and the tax base of the welfare society will also be put on hold.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u10	Madam President! Our key ministers have very strongly condemned illegal tax evasion, as it should be. But we must remember that we have a great deal of tax avoidance, even aggressive tax avoidance, which is still legal for the time being. This means that we are losing a huge amount of tax revenue, the tax revenue that should be used in the spending limits debate today, for example, to look after the Finnish, Nordic welfare state. Now the message is very strong in the direction of the Summer Beach, towards the spending limits line: now Finland needs to take a whole new hold. In fact, the EU Commission is more active than most Member States, including Finland, in tackling this aggressive tax evasion. It is not enough now to condemn illegal tax evasion; we must now take measures to prevent legal tax evasion, that is to say tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u11	Mr President! It is a very good thing that this Panama spill has come up and that journalists worldwide have done a great deal of work. Here we see what it can bring, namely that we are now discussing in various European parliaments and hopefully in other parliaments around the world. Just as Mr Zyskowicz said here, so the previous government did a lot to combat the black economy, and now we are gradually seeing that result. I would therefore like to ask the representatives of the government what you are doing now and what the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance are doing to make further progress, because we know that millions and millions of euros are lost every year in the black economy. I also hope that the government will now actively raise this grey economy and its related anti-corruption agenda in the EU as well. Is this what we're gonna do?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u12	Mr President! I am surprised, though, that there is such a terrible surprise here that this Panamanese has come to the fore. This shouldn't surprise anyone. These tax evasion issues have been known in this country before, and it is indeed high time that we addressed them. Now is the time for us at our own national level to go through our tax legislation, to go through the legislation on the transfer of funds in general and to find all the small loopholes there is, the way money can flow to tax havens all the time. By one decision — by deciding that we will no longer go there — this matter will not be dealt with. It's gonna take a lot more work than that. I hope that this whole House will work for it and look for those loopholes and bring them out here so that this issue can finally be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u13	Madam President! These Panamanian papers really show what the need for this international and also every country's own measures is to move from words to deeds in this tax evasion. So when you listen to Mr Tolppa, who said that this was no surprise, you wonder why these actions were not taken before or by whom. In the European Parliament, for example, representatives of the Finns Party voted against that mandatory country-by-country reporting. This would be one of the things that could be done in concrete terms both at EU level and here in Finland, as was already required in the last period to introduce state-owned companies. Last season, Finland took the lead in the fight against international tax evasion. There was even a tax evasion conference convened by the then Minister Urplainen, which received international attention. Now the question is, what does the government do? Words are not enough. We must act now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u14	Madam President! It is quite true what Mr Henriksson says and what Mr Lindtman says, namely that during the previous government a good path was taken. The basis for all this is the international exchange of information. We are currently dealing with the FATCA agreement in the tax section, namely the agreement on the automatic exchange of information between financial institutions, as well as the BEPS project. And they're both being taken forward. There is a government proposal that the Tax Procedures Act be amended in such a way that we can be involved. Yes, Panama is telling us that the loop is getting tighter and that these actions will result in even more of these happening in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u15	Madam President! I do disagree that the last government, as well as this one, would have done very well to prevent tax evasion. Indeed, significant progress has been made in relation to the black economy, particularly at grassroots level. But instead, the aggressive tax planning that takes place at the top levels of society — a number of proposals were made about it, but they remained in different councils. The little that was completed came also from international pressure and not from Finland itself. In my opinion, it can be said that Finland has consistently held back rather than been a pioneer in preventing tax evasion that has been widely discussed in recent days.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u16	Mr President! A number of colleagues have already pointed out that national measures alone are not enough, that action is needed at EU level and that there is also a need for global action beyond the EU. And, indeed, I would like to see a more positive and active attitude on the part of the government and the governments' meps about the means proposed by the EU Commission, for example, to prevent tax evasion. After all, we do not need to reinvent the wheel; these proposals exist. As Mr Lindtman said last summer, both Meps of the Finns Party voted against. On top of that, two coalition meps and one central meppi abstained on whether large companies operating in more than one country should be obliged to publish the amount of taxes they have paid in each of their countries of activity. The Finnish Government has also been very hard-pressed about a number of the EU Commission's actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u17	Madam President! I just want to make it right that Finland's tax legislation is based on the fact that if any measure is taken only to avoid tax, it is illegal and void. In other words, there is no such loophole in Finland. The previous audit committee dealt with the grey economy in a very thorough manner and also brought about significant changes which have already had an impact on Swedish legislation. I say that the economy is twice that of Finland and that international trade is perhaps three times that, so the number of tax inspectors is proportionate in Finland and Sweden if we look at the volume to be checked.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u18	Madam President! In order to avoid hypocrisy on this issue of Panama, we certainly expect each other to make presentations and concrete actions. The fight against the shadow economy must be a joint task for the whole of Parliament. As was said earlier, the previous government did a lot in the fight against the shadow economy, but not everything. During the last term, I took a bill in which I made it an obligation for auditors to notify the authorities of the suspected financial offences detected in the audit. A similar arrangement has been in place in Sweden since 2000. After my legislative initiative, the government continued to make a proposal of a government with the same content, which, however, was blocked by the political right in the Economic Committee mentioned by Mr Lehde a year ago. The proposal has not been tabled, it has not been passed, it has not been transposed. I think it's time to make good use of it. There are good ways of doing that behind your back.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u19	Madam President! Someone took the floor and said that Panama paper is a major disadvantage for society as a whole. In my opinion, the fact that the matter came to light does not cause any harm, But what is a major disadvantage to society as a whole is precisely tax evasion and the problems associated with it, one of which is the tax deficit in central government finances. This has been known, as Mr Tolppanen said, for a long time here in Finland, and last season the then government went on to do a new job. I'd like to thank the president of the tax section. Lintilaa, who openly acknowledged to the previous government that we were on the right track. Now I would really like the present government to continue its good work and to add the resources we heard from Sari Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u20	Mr President! Tax evasion and tax avoidance are indeed a major problem both in Finland and in Europe as a whole. The losses to public finances are huge. It is a good thing that this is now being discussed, and hopefully it will also be addressed. Ministers have already expressed their views on this, but it remains to be seen what practical measures this will lead to. As far as the government is concerned, this "track record" may not be terribly flattering. It was only last autumn that the government proposed a reduction in the budget for combating the shadow economy, a law of effective repentance, a code of administrative records, and fortunately, due to opposition pressure and pressure from civil society, it understood to withdraw these absurd proposals. Now, however, the government is once again bringing us a loophole when it is preparing for the national implementation of the CSD Regulation, i.e. the possibility of management registration
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u21	Mr President! With reference to that previous speech, today's report 4/2016 from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been produced in connection with this translated burden of proof, which makes it possible to effectively hinder the concealment of money and the illegal benefits it brings, as the accused must prove his own entitlement to justice. Moreover, the exchange of information between the various countries will also be intensified during this government and over the next few years, so it cannot be said that this government has not yet intervened at all in this fight against the shadow economy, but, on the contrary, has taken swift action. As far as this Panama exposure is concerned, this will indeed increase the pressure to step up international cooperation, both at EU level and globally, so that this free travel can be effectively eradicated. I believe that this is an important issue for our society as a whole, and it has been gratifying to see that the whole Chamber seems to be unusually unanimous on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u22	Madam President! It is good to remember that, even during this debate, the EU countries have already lost 60 million as a result of tax evasion. That's the size class we're talking about. It is good that there is now a clear consensus in this Chamber that it is now time to move from words to deeds, and it is good that Mr Mäkelä raised this issue of exchange of information. The question is whether the countries that are on the other side will act as agreed. Last autumn, the Commission proposed to make the so-called cooperation tax havens a little more comprehensive than the OECD has done. There are only three countries on the OECD list that are not cooperating. The Commission proposed that there should be at least thirty. Because of the comparison, Finnfund, Finland's own company, has announced that there are 24 countries with which there is no cooperation. This is a performance that the government took a hard time about. Now that these Panama papers are out, I'm gonna ask the government:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u23	Madam President! It is quite unwarranted to suggest, among other things in the previous speech, that the current government would not continue the good work of the previous government in the fight against the shadow economy and tax crime. We've already got a representative here. Lintilä explained what is currently being discussed in Parliament's tax section in this regard, and Mr Outi Mäkelä, among others, mentioned the report adopted today by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which strikes a financial offender at the lowest place, namely his wallet. As far as the spending limits debate is concerned, it may not be realistic to think that new solutions would be made there, but there should be some disagreement with Mr Eero Lehde about this tax audit: if there are 200 people in Sweden and 12 people in Finland working on these terms, then I think it is necessary to consider whether it would not be appropriate and, in fact, worthwhile to increase the number of these employees in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u24	Mr President! Esko Seppänen's latest book has an interesting title on the theme of the day: Sipilä's credit bank is Wahlroos Nordea. So one title — and also factually — is linked to the Prime Minister, Wahlroos, and Nordea, all of whom have been public about these matters. The Prime Minister's investments are specifically in investment instruments and Nordea Group. He announces a capital income of EUR 75,000, but here the difference is that there is only the capital income that has been withdrawn and some increase interest. After all, banks and insurance companies feed this development. Over a short period of time, these investments have increased from zero to up to EUR 10 billion, and insurance companies, for example, have created an investment tool that does not insure anything, but which gives you all the tax benefits of insurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u25	Madam President! However, in order to avoid this hypocrisy, it is good to remember that tax evasion and avoidance is a very old phenomenon and certainly has occurred as long as taxes have existed. What limits the interference? That was a good question for Mr Lindtman. I personally see that the main limiting factor is the sovereignty of the states. All the forces must now be used together at international, European and national level to limit this activity to the point where it is possible at all. Unfortunately, however, I am not so optimistic that we are able to get rid of this phenomenon, especially with national decisions, but we must of course try to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u26	Mr President! I believe that everyone in this Chamber has a good will to intervene in the tax debate that is already illegal, but there is a clear difference between the right side of the Chamber talking about improving the control of the state of the current law, and we want to improve laws both in Finland and at EU level, so that tax evasion and tax evasion and aggressive tax competition are not possible. And that is what this is all about, a much wider phenomenon. If, at the moment, more than half of the world's wealth is concentrated in the hands of the richest per cent and, at the same time, the different types of money laundering and such phenomena are linked to these tax havens, then we must work hard to ensure that tax havens are fully caught up, and also within the EU, minimum tax rates for capital taxation and corporate taxation, so that such aggressive tax competition within the EU can be combated. And we have a somewhat problematic situation, for example in Commissioner Juncker's own country: he himself has been Prime Minister, and Luxembourg is one of these countries which are operators of very aggressive tax competition. That's to say, this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u27	Madam President! Panama-case specifically punctured a pus — a pustule that has been known. This must lead to a worldwide awakening that the former methods cannot continue. In Finland, we need to step up the fight against the shadow economy and, above all, now that we are looking for new sources of income and the balance of state finances, we need to turn every stone into a change in legislation, so that the money is on the legal roads and, as a result, the State will have more tax revenue, which we really urgently need to safeguard our well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u28	Madam President! Research journalism and leaks are an essential part of democracy and transparency. There used to be Lux Leaks, where we saw this, and now we have Panama paper. These came as no surprise to Mr Tolppanen, but perhaps to Mr Halla-aho and Mr Ruohonen-Lerner, who voted against the only way to curb this tax evasion in the European Parliament. But it must now be seen that, in addition to illegal tax evasion, legislation must be amended so that even this legal - now legal - tax evasion is not accepted. And when there is Minister of Justice Lindström and when I presented in my opening speech a 12-point programme on how to tackle illegal tax evasion at both Finnish and EU level as well as this aggressive tax planning, which is not yet illegal, I would now like to hear from Minister Lindström what you are doing as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u29	President! Just a few comments on this Panama case. In this debate, or in other places of public opinion, it has not been taken into account that, in fact, this list of names, which is currently on the Internet, has already been there on 27 December 2013, which is in fact three years old. And what did the previous government do in 2014 and 2015, when these lists of names have been known? Where are the good deeds and actions of the previous government? Well, it is good, however, that certain tightening is coming, including the OECD BEPS project and Anti-BEPS, this is a good project. That's all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u30	Mr President! The publication of Panama paper shows that the major problems lie elsewhere than in the EUR 5 laces. I think it is important now to draw attention to two things. The second is that we have state companies under direct control. During the last government period, a transparency project was already launched to publish and obtain tax information, to obtain a tax footprint from all state companies, and this must also be continued where the State is only a shareholder. The second issue is public procurement. We know that, with the reform of social services, there is no doubt that the health and social services sector will have an increasingly diverse set of private companies. It is very important that the tax footprint of these companies is visible and that the criterion for competitive tendering can also be that companies pay their taxes to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u31	Mr President! Mr Haavisto rightly raised the question of what is at stake at international level and what is at home. However, according to a study carried out in Finland in 2010, return on investment was not reported at EUR 800 million. That's a lot of it. Looking at Panama, Panama alone, we cannot escape the threat or even the hope that those who are closer to us — Luxembourg, Jersey, the Isle of Man — will also be exposed to leaks in the future. You can only imagine the lists, the bits we see. The Finnish model, as mentioned earlier, is a good model, and I would now like the government to see the transparency that is being promoted both by the Commission and by the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u32	Mr President! What is the motive of the already rich for the Panamanian events? Greed must be a good guess for that. But the black economy is also being combated by the fact that taxation encourages attempts and not suppresses people's desire to try. I know many small entrepreneurs who pay their taxes properly, many seven days a week work round days. Their message has always been: it is not worth trying in Finland if you do not want to lose your health. These entrepreneurs are not panama emperors and they will not become such, but they will help to understand that it is essential to remove the motives for tax evasion and aggressive tax planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u33	Madam President! They're worried about tax revenue here, that's good. However, under the spending limits line, the question must be asked: will the government, at the very least, promote the preservation of public tax revenue in Finland instead of just spending cuts? And will the government continue to block, among other things, the EU Commission's proposal for 2015 to eliminate company tax avoidance, mentioned by Mr Lindtman, or will it support those Commission proposals after the Panama papers? And will the government use — and, above all, will the majority of the Parliament require Finland to exercise — its legislative powers and prevent the concealment of ownership and tax avoidance through the register, both in Finland and abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u34	Madam President! It has rightly been repeated in this Chamber since the repetition that words are not enough and that things are not being condemned. Now this government needs to take the path that eliminates these opportunities. We must not wait for EU-level regulation. If one of the speakers heard correctly, it was just as if we had to conclude a tax agreement with China first before we could build our own activities here. This is exactly the moment we need. We need transparency in this, because what is happening to us all the time is behind these Panama crises. Aggressive, immoral tax planning, where transfers are made at group level and the tax-free income from it is then transferred to various holding companies, which, even in this part of the country, in Europe, are greatly eased in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u35	Madam President! Of course, everything that can be done at European Union level to deal with this issue must be done, and it will certainly not be enough just for the meps of the government parties — it will require the meps of all the different parties, But another thing that would be important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u36	Madam President! Mr Ville In the last parliamentary term, he felt that what had been done to combat the shadow economy. This is explained by the report of the Audit Committee published in January 2015. In addition to the construction sector, the actions of the ambitious programme to combat the shadow economy have been best pursued, particularly in the transport and scrap sectors, in the control of environmental crime and in the special legacy of enforcement. For example, the tax number of the reverse VAT system in the construction sector and the written lists of persons in the construction sites and the notification of works and workers to the tax authority increased tax revenues and eased unfair competition. At that time, an additional EUR 20 million was invested in this, and they paid for themselves in many ways. This additional funding was made mainly through staff increases so that 335 man-years more were available to combat and control the shadow economy than in the previous parliamentary term. But I ask, where is this money now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u37	Mr President! As far as this Panama issue is concerned, it is self-evident that it is very reprehensible that international tax evasion is being and must continue to be more effective in preventing it, and I believe that this automatic exchange of information will help in the future. But I asked for the floor because of what Mr Ojala-Niemele has said here: It is quite true that, during the previous government, very important things were done specifically in the construction sector, the transport sector and the hotel and restaurant sector, which here in Finland were among the largest sectors of the grey economy. But above all, and contrary to what may have been said earlier, it was done by amending the legislation, and one of the key things there was the need for construction sites to have an identity card so that we could identify those people, because we had people who worked on both Finnish and Estonian construction sites but did not pay tax on either site. And I know that former Minister Ihalainen was very active in these matters. It was a good thing that these and other reforms were brought forward, and it was then that the right things were found.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u38	Madam President! Mr Satonen has just spoken, and there is also an opportunity to ask Mr Satonen. Mr Zyskowicz mentioned this Swedish model earlier: Sweden has 200 authorities in the tax office investigating suspected financial crimes and Finland 12 respectively. If I remember correctly, Mr Zyskowicz said in a manner of speaking: we should look for a model in Sweden. Should not the amendment of the audit law raised by Minister Ihalainen last season be re-examined by the current government? It contains a concrete statement on how the auditors are to be caught up in suspicions of financial crime. According to current legislation and legislation in force over the last period, the auditor may not report a suspected financial crime to his client in other cases than in the case of suspicion of financing international terrorism or money laundering. In this regard, Mr Haavisto had a good and concrete example of this example of pizza, but I would like to highlight this very widespread structural corruption in this society. Although we are the least corrupt country in the world in Finland, we are not, however, completely free of corruption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u39	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen and Mr Kivelä said emphatically that every stone must be turned in order to find loopholes. But all the more amazing is that the government has brought a new loophole to the parliament by returning a register of control that was to be buried and buried just four months ago. It is clear that we ourselves cannot be an example of openness to the rest of Europe if we do not follow the Finnish model, which, moreover, has been negotiated in the EU in such a way that we have our own deviation. And in this negotiation, ironically, the key player was Sirpa Pietikäinen, the European Parliamentarian of the Coalition Party, from the same party that the Minister of Finance is now bringing to ruin this derogation from Finland. So let's start by removing this possibility to hide Finnish property abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u40	Mr President! Just as Mr Zyskowicz said, it is certainly good to look at these human resources in the fight against the shadow economy. However, the idea of my speech was to point out that it is very sensible to look at the legislative means, those which actually hit the issues we are talking about. One of the legal committees has already come out today, as Mr Mäkelä has said here. And indeed of these things that have been done during the last parliamentary term, apart from this identity card, it was also an essential responsibility of the subscriber, which was specifically allocated to those sectors with the most grey economy. Now we must remember that then it is unnecessary to create red tape in areas where we have the situation under control. But where there is clearly a grey economy, such as in the construction sector, this customer’s responsibility for clearing up has been a good and effective system. And this type of accurate assessment must be carried out, which is effective and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u41	Mr Laukkanen, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u42	Madam President! It seems that the crowd of Finnish happy taxpayers is fading and the crowd of cheerful tax evaders is growing. However, the current digital environment ensures that almost everything we do leaves an invisible mark. The big book says that it takes a lot to give a lot. When important players in society are caught with their pants down on tax planning that cannot stand the light of day, it should never be taken lightly. It is also remarkable that if the only factor preventing tax evasion is law and control, it also tells a lot about this society. We have a very significant moral deficit. This is the place to look into the mirror of society as a whole: what really guides our choices?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u43	Madam President! Tax havens are also a problem in this Chamber, not only because it makes it difficult to draw up sensible budgets for the state, but also because of the ties of the authorities. It is precisely the sales product of tax havens that conceals these links. The public is therefore entitled to assume that there is a strong policy against tax havens. At the moment, the situation does not look very good, at least if we look at the positions of the government, among other things, at the Commission's communication on an effective corporate tax system, that is to say, the communication already mentioned, which aims to reduce tax avoidance, among other things, in some respects also tax evasion. It sets out a broad tax paradise that would both act as a means of exerting pressure on these tax havens and also help Finnish investors to plan their own investment activities. The government is resisting. It proposes curbing patent boxes — that is to say, innovation boxes, through which Finland constantly loses tax revenue. In this regard, the government prefers the option of the OECD, which is watered down by the British, which is much more "stupid" than what the Commission is advocating. The government's position is mainly passive muttering, even when it comes to presenting a common EU corporate tax rate or country-specific accounting. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to remember that Panama papers are just one law firm material. The number of tax havens and these law firms is considerably higher. At the same time, it is good to remember that tax havens are only one sub-item in the global history of tax avoidance. This phenomenon is much wider, much more institutionalised than anyone can fully understand at the moment. At the moment, I do not know of any Finnish authority that is linked to this or any similar tax haven, but that can happen if the phenomenon is not controlled and controlled. It would be desirable for Finland to change its course and take active action in good weather, not through a political crisis, as is likely to be the case now in Iceland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u44	Mr President! It is a good thing that Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss a wide-ranging roundup of tax havens, tax avoidance and tax evasion through these Panama papers immediately. And that is the whole thing that needs to be seen here, not just talking about individual names or people, but recognising that this activity is shaping the entire world economy in a way that makes it impossible in the long term to finance a welfare state, it is impossible for democracy to control its own fates in different countries and parliaments in different countries. If the most wealthy people in the world can always avoid taxes, either legally or through the veil of this secret, even now illegally, and at the same time those who do criminal activity can also launder their money through these tax havens, then it is absolutely impossible to build a society that is equal, fair, that combats poverty and in which, I would like to emphasise, the market economy operates fairly. We already have a major problem in Finland that large international companies operating through tax havens are able to minimise taxes through transfer pricing and tax solutions so that they are able to win small businesses and local operators in competition and also third sector operators. I would like to say that, now that we are also considering these measures in Finland, what will happen here, we must work both at home and at EU level to enable public procurement to be amended and domestic legislation to be applied so that competitions do not have to take into account such companies that use tax haven companies. It is even a very big threat to the whole structure of social and health care if these actors are allowed to take on more and more of the industry, because their commitment to the development of social and health care and to the long-term protection of people's services is also weak. But there are other ways. In addition to this domestic competition, we need to consider what the Finnish Government can do at EU level and what the EU countries can do together. And here I would also like to say that I have been very disappointed that: To date, the Sipilä Government has blocked the proposals made by the Commission in its communication on how to tackle tax evasion and tax planning more effectively in the future. It is not just enough for us to have an automatic exchange of information at the beginning of 2017 — which, in fact, the right-wing parties in the European Parliament tried to slow down for a long time — because this automatic exchange of information is currently only between taxpayers. The same information must also be available to the police, as comprehensive and automatic as possible and in real time. In other words, there is still more work to be done in this exchange of information and we must ensure that all the countries of the world are involved. We also need to consider how the tax information of companies is as transparent as possible, and that is where this country-specific accounting is absolutely necessary. When you get into such a world that every company, every person's information, which he has earned and paid tax in each country when that information is available to the authorities, then you can ensure that such unhealthy tax evasion, which is already illegal, cannot happen and can also be interfered with tax avoidance. And these simply need to be brought through all international agreements and at EU level, and here the creation of this country-specific accounting is one where the Finnish Government has to change its line, because it has also been rather sceptical. On the other hand, the majority state-owned companies have already carried out country-specific reporting during the last government term — in which Minister Haavisto worked hard — but it must also ensure that it is comprehensive and that possible loopholes are closed, because different companies have interpreted in a little different way what this country-specific reporting is. Transparency also needs to be increased through public registers of the actual owners of companies, in order to know who actually operates and who owns them. And here the Government's recent proposal to allow Finnish owners to register management through foreign CSDs is going in the wrong direction. So words and deeds must be in harmony. So far the government's proposals have been more like such tax avoidance biceps, as well as the notorious tax amnesty law, which fortunately fell due to the fact that the Constitutional Committee had already had strong doubts that this could not even be accepted. And so now it is hoped that the Sipilä government... There is no point in arguing here, but this is now like a wake-up call: there is no market economy thinking to allow such tax avoidance. It is an unfair act, it is a robbery capitalism, in which the wealth of the world is increasingly concentrated in the hands of the few and in the hands of those who are the most arrogant to avoid taxes. And it cannot be the right way to act from a bourgeois world view either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u47	Mr President! Tom Lindström, a well-known investor in his blog, has written that investing in an insurance portfolio, such as capitalisation contracts and insurance investments, exists only because of the tax planning features of these contracts. It's obvious. It's paid for insurance so you don't have to pay taxes. If you go to the actual debate on this subject, the subject has been dealt with in such a broad way that the Prime Minister has hardly been able to commit all these wrongs and not to commit any illegal acts now, but this notification procedure is questionable in the sense that it is not open but remains open. It is good that, for example, Minister Lehtomäki's Talvivaara investments and the Talvivaara investments of his immediate circle were reviewed at the time. Winterfell was still an interesting investment back then, although I don't think there is any. But going through these bonds was extremely important. But in these investment instruments, in which the Prime Minister is also involved as an investor, it enables its internal active trade, even though they are under the control of its insurance company. These insurance and investment instruments have been made around both domestic and foreign financial investments. That volume is huge. When a bank and insurance companies are determined to feed such a development, that it is as difficult as possible to control investment activities, ownership and sometimes very questionable links, it is a dangerous trend. It is worth noting that in the provinces in recent years, many times the king or queen of entrepreneurs has been the owner of a company that produces social services, which has sold its investment at a good price to international investors, and they probably have not made their choice here by accident.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u48	Madam President! To begin with, these tax havens are cancer in the welfare state. It undermines us and causes poverty, for governments in different countries, as it does here for the bourgeois government, for those who have the least of them. The document leak from the Panamanian law firm reveals the extent and diversity of international tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. It is very good that there has been a debate in this Chamber today about the illegal nature of tax evasion, but we also have immoral tax evasion, which everyone has condemned, that is, tax planning. Let us hope that today's debate will also arouse the feeling in all of us that we must now continue along the lines of the previous government and intensify our efforts and not, as has already been listed here, what this government is about, pardons, management registers, and once again, through the kitchen, try to import the same package wrapped in a different paper. However, this is due to what is happening in our everyday lives, namely the group economy, whose scams need to be tackled. For example, a competitiveness agreement will be of no use if the export company sells its products to a foreign subsidiary with a zero margin, paying excessive interest on the Group's loans. There is less enthusiasm for employees in export companies, where, unfortunately, we too currently have this very underprivileged sales. Sales will then take place in another country, and sales revenue will run away from taxes on trips to paradise islands. It is not sustainable for international groups and investment institutions to make every effort to avoid their taxes. It's out of our welfare state. We need a country-specific accounting system with financial and tax reports and a complete automatic exchange of information in the EU. Pending measures at EU level, we must lay down a condition for country-by-country accounting for public procurement in the country of origin. With this simple change, we would already benefit from a tax benefit of EUR 200 million. By closing the gaps in tax havens, the situation in public finances will be substantially improved and investment growth will be made more employment-friendly. This is a question of the fate of Finland and the rest of the European economy. The government must now turn its attention to the work of the cut-off plans to defend the financing base for public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u49	Mr President! The wealth of the world is divided into the pockets of a very few. The leaders of large banks and companies are taking their pockets full, no matter how much damage they could have done. Tax havens rot in public finances. National measures are needed to eradicate tax evasion. This is definitely also an EU-level issue and an even wider one. Without tax resources, there is no welfare state. This Chamber has today criticised aggressive tax planning — and the subject. By the way, it would be interesting to hear what the debate in the Greek Parliament is like when the rich pay taxes there if they want to. The climate of opinion is now beginning to be such that the will of the decision-makers to make things right is becoming stronger. Panama's papers are now in public debate, and publicity is a good way of getting things done and getting things going. The most important thing now is to keep this issue in constant discussion and to raise awareness among politicians, journalists and citizens of tax havens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u50	Mr President! Now, to get back to the point. From Panama to the country of origin, I have nothing new to say about Prime Minister Sipilä's declarations of engagement — in other words, the previous one is still in force. But here it may be fruitful to look more generally at the responsibilities of the elite of society and their publicity. Panama revelations only emphasise that Finland must be at the forefront of the world in the public domain of ownership information, as we are at the moment, because Finnish owners' information on Finnish ownership is legally transparent and identifiable. Ultimately, the Finnish model is one in which the rest of Europe seeks to address tax avoidance and to ensure that taxes on property income are paid for schools, health care and other public services. One of the reasons for the deterioration of public services is that the funds that should be used to finance public services have been smuggled beyond the reach of the tax authority. The problem is therefore not just the construction sector, but rather the financial sector. The problem is not so much the six-euro pizzas but the 600 million-dollar debt chains between parent companies and subsidiaries. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that the Government's proposal to implement the CSD Regulation will severely and potentially fatally undermine the transparency of knowledge and enable Finnish ownership to be transferred to foreign management registers. This watering must be withdrawn and the Finnish direct model must be secured by national legislation. It is a genuine fear that even the majority of Finnish ownership will run away because Finnish ownership is highly concentrated: for example, the richest one per cent of Finns own 77 per cent of the stock market shares. Mr President! Finally, a reflection on the Constitution. Article 63 It should be ensured that Finnish shares registered abroad should also be presented on a company-by-company basis in ministerial bonds, but this remains to be interpreted by the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u51	Mr President! A moment ago, the debate heard a lot about the fact that the Finns of Peru have voted against the issue of tax evasion at EU level. I can open it up a little bit. It is true that the voting behaviour of our MEPs Halla-aho and Pirkko Ruohonen-Lerner was based on the fact that taxation is primarily a matter for the Member States and national legislation. It is not part of the EU's competence. In other words, this is precisely about federal development, and then we will be caught up in federal development. We now know that, for example, the European Court of Justice has banned, for example, the payment of group grants even to another EU country, let alone outside the EU, to the Cayman Islands or Panama, but, despite this, Finland's state currently flows to tax havens for about one billion every year. This is a completely undisputed fact. One thing could be done about this, and that part of it is that we would change the law on the taxation of group grants in Finland, because that law for us is so old that it came into force before the free movement of capital was liberalised in Europe. The law is old without help, giving one loophole. These loopholes also exist in other legislation. I can't tell you what those loopholes are. I found this one. I hope that the people in this Chamber will look for those loopholes and the hole in the hole will be blocked so that we can, for our part, reject this transfer of funds beyond the tax authorities' reach. Of course it is important that we also cooperate at EU level, but at the moment, if we trust that this cooperation, this tax issue will only be dealt with at EU level, then we will go behind the back of the EU and in this country we will be able to riot as much as the soul can tolerate if our own national legislation allows us to do so. Neither the EU nor these measures will be able to combat it. This is what we are talking about in our own legislation, and that is what is being done in this Chamber, and that is something that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u52	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen justified the behaviour of the Finns on the ground that taxation is a national competence, but it is precisely in this Chamber that it has been proven with many mouths that no progress in these international financial transfers will be made without EU legislation, directives and regulations, which must also be implemented at national level, and that Finland is actually lagging behind in many areas, especially in that spirit and will. If we want to maintain this tax power at national level, then the Finns are more part of the problem than part of the solution. Try to decide whether you want European legislation that solves European and global problems, or whether you want us to be here in the forest by ourselves, wondering where all the tax money is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u53	Mr President! Yes, I absolutely believe that, first and foremost, we must be able to resolve these issues at national level, preferably in the front. Then let the EU come after us when it comes, but we must be able to put our own tax laws in such a way that we will not be able to flow out of the country of the kind of money that should be taxed in this country. For example, we have the custom of the country — not the former but the former Minister of Finance — that this can be done if the recipient party has an office in Finland, i.e. a hot dog kiosk or a studio apartment, not a place of residence, but a place of business. He justified it the way he did in the country. In my opinion, there can no longer be country customs in these matters. These things must be taken by two hands, because otherwise a billion will no longer be enough for what flows out of us. The next minute, 2 billion will be in circulation. This is a snowball that grows as it goes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u54	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u55	Madam President! The Panama papers are, I hope, now also going to wake up the government parties. This debate here has been good in the sense that from left to right everyone has said that we should tackle illegal tax evasion, and now there are also messages that there is also an understanding of the direction of the coalition that we need to tackle this aggressive tax planning, which is not illegal but immoral in itself, and that we are losing millions and billions of euros, we need stricter legislation. If you look at the track record of the current Sipilä government so far in these matters, it is not very good. Active repentance was driven with force. Active repentance would have meant that the criminal lords, those who steal from all of us Finns by hiding property, would have been able to register without convictions. This would have come into force just before the exchange of information would have expanded so that they could have been exposed anyway. Perhaps the friends would have been saved by this active regret that through this active exchange of information they would have become apparent. But not the active exchange of information alone, even though it has been raised here, will solve these problems. It also has a lot of loopholes. Well, let's think about the CSD-regulation. The government, and especially the Finance Minister, Stubb, drove the management register, went behind the EU's back, argued that the EU demanded it, even though the current red-green opposition in the previous or previous Katainen government made sure that Finland negotiated an exemption rule for the EU CSD regulation which would allow direct ownership of Finnish investors in the future. At the time, Minister Stubb claimed otherwise, argued that the EU was forcing the management register. It is a good thing that he admitted last week that he spoke the truth that was changed at the time when he said that there was no such demand from the EU. But it is amazing that through the kitchen, through the side door, there is now an opportunity to register management in CSD regulation legislation. This matter must be corrected by Parliament in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It is the first point to measure whether these speeches, what has been said here in the Chamber, have any real meaning as to how to act against aggressive tax evasion. Madam President! It has been pointed out here that both Jussi Halla-aho and Pirkko Ruohonen-Lerner, the fundamental Finnish European parliamentarians, voted against controlling this business, in which they transfer their profits to countries of lower taxation. It was now heard that it is because we are critical of the fact that the EU regulates these matters. But, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that banks cross borders, cross-capital borders, cross-border companies, whether we like it or not, so we do need cross-border legislation and control. These Panama papers specifically show how cruel, how outrageous this activity is, where money, capital is hidden, ownership is hidden, taxes are circumvented. This cannot be tackled by a single country alone; joint action is needed. Now get out of that bunker with your helmets on and see what's going on in the world. If you want to take care of the Finnish welfare state, you must support the means by which these are addressed. Madam President! A lot has been said about 1%, first on Wall Street at Occupy Wall Street. At the moment, in the election campaign for the President of the United States, the candidate for President of the United States, Bernie Sanders, talks about this problem. Capital, ownership, money are concentrated in a very small number, and most people suffer from this in Finland, but above all in developing countries, especially in poor countries. If we want to ensure that there is peace in the world, there will be opportunities for future life in the world, then we must also intervene from a global perspective. Madam President! Let this debate be a starting point for a completely new policy in the government. Now, our expectations are great that domestic legislation will also be introduced to impose tax evasion, the use of tax havens, aggressive tax planning, but also to take a completely new attitude and position at EU level, not to hold back, not to slow down projects, as the Finnish Government has done so far, but to be at the forefront here. Let me take one example: the financial market tax, that is what we were driving last season. Within the government, it was put to the vote. The Left Alliance, the Social Democrats and the Greens were in favour of Finland starting to prepare for this. In the government, the National Coalition Party, the Christian Party and the RKP then opposed it, and in the opposition both the Centre and the Basic Finns objected to the fact that: Finland will join in the preparation of the financial market tax for the group that was authorised by the EU Commission to prepare this. This is one thing where Finland needs to take on a new grip. Let's go with you and prepare a financial market tax. Let us make it good for Europe, that is good for Finland. It will be able to address these cash flows that flow into tax havens. It makes them visible, makes them visible where the holdings are. Finally, I say: This is a big deal for democracy and for the transparency of society. The Panama papers show the unfortunate list of international decision-makers. Even in the Nordic countries, Iceland, the Prime Minister and two other ministers take advantage of tax havens. This tells us that it is not something that is far away, but it is also here in our Parliament or near us, and that is why this must be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u56	Madam President! The answer to Mr Arhinmäki must be that much when he said that there was opposition in the government. That was opposed because the model that the EU has put forward is currently falling short of its own potential. You probably know perfectly well that there have been countries that have wanted to take this project forward, I think, 11 or 12 countries that have gone to take it in the end. At the moment it has already been seen that, when it was made as watered down as it was made, the bureaucracy in raising that money will be greater than the revenue expected of it. This is what we have just said that if we do not have a global system, we should not go into a system that is more harmful than beneficial. In that sense, it is all right that we are not even trying to move this system forward. Do not buy a good conscience by means that are not actually effective. In that sense, I am happy to join Mr Arhinmäki in bringing forward, for example, factual legislation and the fact that we have, for example, different reporting of companies, and also the way in which the company's income is distributed in different countries for tax purposes. These are very important projects and we need international cooperation, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u57	Madam President! I was in the government when the government voted on this and decided. The question was whether Finland will join the group that is preparing a financial market tax and its model. The question was whether we should go with them to prepare the best possible model. At that time, unfortunately, both the centre of the opposition and the Finns and the Christians, the RKP and the Coalition Party were opposed. I believe that this is an essential question. We must be open and actively involved in the preparation. If the result is a torso, it is no good for anyone to accept it, but if we do not even participate and try to achieve it, how can we prevent a performance from becoming a torso? It has not been thought that a financial market tax would generate significant revenues, but it is essential that these moving revenue flows become visible and ownership more transparent. These Panama papers show how important open ownership is and how income flows move in financial capitalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u58	Madam President! Indeed, the basis for this preparation was the fact that the European Parliament had carried out so-called own-initiative reports on the type of model that could be taken forward. By the time those models were already on the table, there was already the advice not to go along with this type. This will not be the kind of model that makes sense to go out in preparation, this will certainly not solve this problem, this is exactly the kind of so-called search for a good conscience that really does not matter to any world. This, in fact, increases bureaucracy and may even be an obstacle to the fact that these really important means are not being taken away. On the other hand, this common corporate tax base, for example, on which Parliament also gave its own initiative report, had already had its kicks in the head. Although I too strongly believe that taxation is absolutely a matter for the nation states, if we are not able to create this type of cooperation system, then we are not in a position to guard our own tax resources in any way. I am very much in favour of this type of system, and I voted in favour of it in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u59	Then let's go back to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u60	Mr President! I asked for the floor on behalf of Mr Tolppanen, but since I did not receive a reply at the time, I now briefly asked for it. It is not essential at what level we are looking for these answers. What is essential is that we seek these answers at all levels. We are looking for them here in Finland, and then the legislation is in our own hands. We are actively doing this work at European level and, for example, when the Commission has adopted a package of anti-tax evasion measures in January, we must consider whether it is sufficient, what is good at it and how to make it even better. By the way, this is what the government in its own EU impact strategy has said that we are doing this work at European level. In that sense, the logic of the Finns is rather strange when they say that work should not be done at EU level, but is merely part of our national system. In addition, the government's policies have also been based on the fact that even the EU level is not enough, but needs to be made more extensive, and what is essential is that we find in the whole world the tools to curb tax evasion and this kind of unethical tax planning, because money knows no borders.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u61	Madam President! I have been somewhat confused by the debate when, however, the subject should be the announcement of the ties of a member of the Government regarding Prime Minister Sipilä. It is good, of course, that such a wide-ranging debate is taking place, and I also understand that, on the day of the release of Panama paper, this is a very good thing that we are going through the fight against the grey economy. In that sense, this case of Panama was very good, very good, because it also gives these remaining tax havens the fear that from somewhere else those papers will come to the public and that one day we will be able to get rid of these tax havens and other such systems, which are trying to circumvent the tax and bypass the social obligations. But this is indeed the subject of Prime Minister Sipilä's announcement, which is, of course, somewhat different, but, Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that this debate shows that we are still in a long run in Finland and in the European Union and throughout the world on the right path, that we are holding back these very harmful phenomena, such as tax evasion and tax havens. It is quite right that we are discussing these now, but I would still like us to remember in the future, when we deal with these new issues in this House, that Finland is a good country, that there are laws and regulations in place here, and we must shoulder our responsibilities and take this knowledge into the European Union and thereby make these systems even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u62	Madam President! It was also my intention to take the floor in that speech by Mr Tolppanen. But when there are many members of the House, the rest of you can replace and patch up Mr Tolppa by answering my questions. How do the Finns of Finland intend to close international tax havens under national law? How do the Finns in Finland plan to prevent international tax evasion at national level? This is not directly possible because cross-border problems require cross-border cooperation. And if the Finns of Finland want to control the criminal lords and prevent the tax banks from leaking into tax havens in Finland, we have to work together. 'Not for the EU,'not for cooperation is unfortunately meant to be 'yes' to the disappearance of Finnish tax corporations. This message could be sent to the representatives of the Finnish people in Europe. But what you can do here in the Finnish Government as a government party and vote in Parliament when this book-entry system comes to the table: you can demand that Finland exercises the right under national law and prevents the concealment of ownership, prevents tax avoidance by defending the Finnish book-entry system in the current way. And prevent management registration both in Finland and abroad. You have the people's mandate to do that. Control the delinquents and defend the Finnish tax dollars. What do you want to do? Tell me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u63	Mr President! There is clearly a representative of Arhinmäki such a meppistähti, who now took a hard stand on the voting behaviour of the Finns in Peru, and then also Mr Filatov took a stand and asked whether we are against tax evasion now or not. Yes, we are. True Finns are against tax evasion at national, international and, of course, EU level. That's what's especially important. It is obvious that it is not an easy task to eradicate tax havens and international tax evasion, and that is why we must constantly develop the best solutions. And that's where we come in.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u66	Madam President! Little by little, I am amazed at the view of the representative of the neighbouring parliament, Huhtasaari, that if you do not get the best done, you will not take the best. That, in my opinion, every step forward, which can be taken in this sector, that we can intervene in this immoral, active and industrious tax planning, which is legal, but also then in these illegal — every step — is always on the way and supports the financing of the Finnish welfare society, I certainly hope that Mr Huhtasaari did not mean that if he did not get a perfect bull's-eye, then the nine would not do well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u67	Mr President! There were no names in those Panamanian papers, but the names of many others have been found. So the question is that there is no such thing as a complete system, but if it is so bad that it does not produce any desired solutions, then it is worth bringing it down when its plan has to be even reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u68	Madam President! As a final question, I would like to ask you: What do the Finns in the government think of the management register? It's also your case, you're the government party. You too are behind the government's proposal, and in Parliament you will vote. Are you going to stop tax evasion? Are you going to stop this tax leak? Are you going to defend Finnish legislation? On Thursday last week, Mr Stubb, the Minister of Finance, said that national legislation could also prevent the registration of management abroad, if that is what it is intended to do. Do you?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u69	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u70	Madam President! The Government proposes a number of ways to speed up the administration of asylum processes. The objective of improving the processing of asylum applications and, among other things, the use of legal assistance should be supported. Some of the government’s proposals make sense. Unfortunately, some of the proposals are again involved, and this time there are also significant problems and risks. The proposal is in a highly sensitive area of human rights and individual legal protection. We should proceed carefully and carefully. It is a good thing that this issue is dealt with in broad terms by the committees of government, law and constitution. These committees will address the various aspects of the matter, such as the acceleration of asylum processes, the realisation of fundamental rights and the easing of court cases. The draft has been criticised by the Supreme Administrative Court, the Chancellor of Justice, the Bar Association, the UNHCR, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, Amnesty and the Refugee Advice Centre. On the basis of the opinions, only a few minor changes were made to the draft, although good in itself. Mr President! The large number of asylum seekers targeted at Finland is testing our administration and also congesting the handling of asylum decisions. This situation also entails costs for society that we have not anticipated or ordered here. However, the financial costs associated with legal security are not so great as to address the challenges of public finances by compromising fundamental rights. On the other hand, human costs can be significant. Some of the measures proposed in the proposal are also such that it is not at all certain that they will eventually bring savings. On the contrary, it is possible that they will increase the cost of society. For example, restricting legal aid for an asylum interview can increase and make work more difficult in courts and lengthen processing times. The asylum system as a whole works best when the applicant’s situation can be fully clarified at an early stage. In the government's proposal, the focus of the system would be shifted towards court proceedings. This does not necessarily generate any savings at all, but complaints and case-by-case hearings along the way will increase and efficiency will be reduced. In addition, the government proposal has been formulated in such a way that long-standing, experienced and skilled lawyers in the field are unlikely to be able to assist in the future during the asylum investigation. For many reasons, the development of eligibility criteria for legal advisers is to be welcomed in itself, but in practice, the change in this model can lead to a loss of specialist expertise and not to a reduction in unethical activities in this area. Deteriorating expertise can also lead to both human problems and unnecessary longer processes. Mr President! For applicants for international protection, the need for legal protection is increasingly acute and demanding. The asylum procedure is about assessing fundamental human rights, such as whether a person's life is being threatened if he is returned to his country of origin. Unfortunately, the asylum system is also being used in situations where the person himself is aware that there is no proper justification for asylum. I personally do not regard such behaviour as morally acceptable, even because it takes up resources to help those in real need. However, some people's reprehensible behaviour must not mean systematically undermining the legal security and human rights of all applicants. Human rights and the rule of law must be safeguarded in all situations, including detention. Now the show is moving in places in a grey area. For example, the right of the courts to use the register of foreigners should also be provided for in more detail in the final law. The proposal therefore still needs to be modified in a number of respects in order to meet its objectives. Madam President! When moving in such a sensitive area, the final examination of the draft law should be accompanied by a commitment to assess the impact of the changes on the decisions taken, access to legal aid, the expertise of asylum assistants and the implementation of fundamental rights applying for asylum.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u71	Madam President! A very good and worthy speech from Mrs Parviainen, but I am starting to start by saying that I do not see the same concern that legal aid is no longer available for the asylum interview. I just got off the phone with one of the attorneys who took care of things, and he said this show was all right. President! This proposal aims to streamline and speed up the processing of asylum processes and is certainly in the interests of both Finnish society and asylum seekers. I also attach great importance to the fact that, in the future, these dogs and quack lawyers can no longer be involved in the affairs of asylum seekers, but there will be professional lawyers. President! I think it is very important to note from this proposal that such a difficult issue as the long asylum processes can be managed intelligently like the rule of law. We do not need to make decisions in the barbaric country; democracy and the rule of law can make judicial processes more effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u72	And then on the list of speakers, Mr. Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u73	Madam President! As the government reads its proposal, the question arises as to whether the purpose of the bill is merely to tighten foreign law and to make it more difficult for the people most in need to be able to say that foreign policy has been tightened up. Are we really, as a rule of law, at the point where the trampling of human rights is a feather in a government hat? Madam President! For example, how does restricting the right of asylum seekers to free legal aid help Finland? Is it not just the deliberate weakening of the legal protection of asylum seekers that will cause more problems? I am also interested to know how the government will react to the widespread criticism of the proposal during the consultation, including the criticisms of the drafting of legislation in the context of the content. The proposal has been widely criticised and poorly prepared. The response to the opinion has largely been ignored and the proposal lacks a proper assessment of the need for legislative change, alternative solutions and impacts, even if this is a significant deterioration in the legal security of a particularly vulnerable group. Madam President! The Greens also welcome the aim of speeding up the processing of asylum applications and improving legal assistance. There is no doubt about this, but there is a lack of clarity as to why the government's aim is to seriously undermine the legal protection of people seeking international protection and to undermine human rights. And why does the government want to complicate legal aid for asylum talk by limiting it and increasing the work of the courts? This will mean that asylum applications will not be processed more quickly, but, on the contrary, they will be prolonged and costs will increase. I also have to say that I understand the need to improve efficiency and the objective of reducing costs, but should these efforts in the rule of law not be related to genuine individual legal protection needs? The proposal ignores perhaps the main problem of legal security, namely the fact that people in particularly vulnerable situations such as victims of torture or trafficking in human beings, or heavy humanitarian reasons, such as the best interests of the child, are not identified, and vice versa: the proposal threatens to increase the risk of violation of the return bans. Has the government thought that the weakening in the appeal, in the courts, will result in applicants not finding a qualified assistant or obtaining the necessary documents in time? This in turn undermines the overall efficiency of the system as a whole. Madam President! It seems that the draftsmen either do not know or want to know about the asylum process and its reality. The amendment is creating a system of redress that is alien and unequal to Finnish society, and the proposal seriously jeopardises the legal protection of vulnerable people. The proposal must therefore be rejected and returned to the preparation, in the alternative to the Constitutional Committee, the Administrative Committee and the Legal Committee for evaluation. However, if these changes in the proposal are decided to take forward bull-headedly, the Ministry of Justice must commit itself to assessing the human rights implications of these changes and, in particular, to assessing the quality of decisions, access to legal aid and the expertise of asylum assistants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u74	Madam President! I do not know how closely Mr Aalto is now familiar with this performance, but he spoke with real warmth of heart and I think he was right about all asylum seekers in the most vulnerable positions. There the detailed explanatory statement of the bill specifically, that is to say, Mrs Aalto, states that if you are a minor asylum seeker, if you have been tortured, if you are otherwise vulnerable, you can continue to receive legal aid in that asylum investigation and consultation process, but healthy, young, bullied men may not receive it anymore. This focus.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u75	Madam President! My question is this: has Mr Kurvinen read all these statements, which have been made in this motion, which is also very detailed about these problems, which are linked to this proposal? These statements are also largely the cause of the concerns that I wish to bring to the attention of the representatives in this great Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u76	Madam Speaker! In politics, a hint of honesty is always good: I have not quite all the statements, Mrs Aalto, read, I can even admit it here. But I understand that concern, and there is concern here, for example, that there are different appeals periods. But at the same time, as I have already said in my previous reply, it is in the interests of both asylum seekers and Finnish society that those who remain in Finland get into integration measures as quickly as possible, that the most vulnerable are helped and that those who are more immigrants or such adventurers or hikers are returned kindly but very determined as quickly as possible. And this type of proposal is also needed, and I think this is very skilful: to meet our human rights obligations, even though the line is tightening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u77	Mr President! I must be amazed at this attitude of Mr Kurvise on this issue. It is a question of how to know in the early stages that a person is in a situation where he needs help when he is unable to speak the language we speak here and when he does not have an assistant, so who and how does the need for that legal aid solve? And it is, Mr Kurvinen, fully open in this motion. And I find it sad that the government is coming here to Parliament with a proposal that weakens the need for the most vulnerable people and weakens their ability to get help. And it's outrageous to hear people think this is going to work. It is not by appearance that you can decide whether or not this person now needs an assistant, nor by age.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u78	Mr President! In my opinion, it is truly amazing that Mr Kurvinen is here to defend a legal system in which two different castes are created, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u84	Mr President! That is why expert opinions are important, Mr Kurvinen, that they are not personal opinions. They usually describe the experience, the education, they collect the extensive expertise on the basis of which we hope Parliament will then write laws so that they become as effective and sensible as possible. Now, in this situation, the Supreme Administrative Court — as has been said here — the Chancellor of Justice, the Bar Association, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, Amnesty, the Refugee Advice Centre and the UNHCR are all deeply concerned. In line with their expertise, these objectives of accelerated treatment are not met and there is a high risk of not being noticed. From experience, it can be said that these vulnerable people will not be brought up, and these legal defenders will have the right to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u85	Mr President! I have more confidence in these experts, to which Mrs Biaudet has just referred, than Mrs Kurvisen's acquaintance. I have to say that these expert opinions should be read, and we should also understand what they say. After all, the situation will now be seen as taking away the opportunity of these refugee counselling experts, who are present and able to assist these vulnerable asylum seekers today. People who have been doing this work for years now, those who really know how to do this, must no longer be present. Is it really, Congressman Kurvinen, your way of thinking?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u88	Madam President! It is easy to agree with Mr Kurvise here, and I do find the criticism of the government's proposal to be very unreasonable and disproportionate. It is, after all, a question of making the process lighter. No one's legal protection will be compromised, but the process will be a little lighter. This is right from two points of view. First of all, it is right from the point of view that we value the Finnish taxpayer who pays for all this fun. Secondly, therefore, it is also right from the point of view of legal security, as this ensures that the asylum seeker does not become an unrealistic picture of the grounds on which it is possible to obtain asylum in Finland and on which grounds it is not. That is why, secondly, humane questions also arise: when we clearly have a lot of unjustified asylum seekers, by acting in such a way as to ease the process in this difficult situation, we will also be able to make it easier for the help that is given to those who genuinely need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u89	More people have asked for answers. Don't worry, they're all listed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u90	Madam President! That much I would return to Congressman Rydman before you leave, that... [Wille Rydman left the gym. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u91	Mr President! Surely we all share the aim of this proposal, that we want this process to be clarified and speeded up. There seems to be quite a consensus here. But then we come to these few details. After all, the first relates to this requirement for legal aid and, on the other hand, it may be considered to be good, but then it is also necessary to ask what is the competence of these public legal aiders in these matters. In what way, if this proposal goes through, will we also be able to provide training for these public legal defenders so that they can cope with these situations, as far as we are concerned? That is why people who have been specialised in these things for years have been doing these things so that they have that knowledge. It is doubtful whether this same skills can be found, for example, by those who are currently providing this public legal aid. The second then relates to this restriction on the use of assistants. After all, the proposal states that there will be no significant cost savings, since it is suspected that, when you go to the Court of Justice, the costs of clearing up will increase again, so these matters need to be carefully examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u92	Madam Speaker! I would like to say that Mr Joona: Räsänen points out that, in the future, licensed legal advisers with their own legal office or lawyers who are members of the Finnish Bar Association, or lawyers working in these offices, will have the opportunity to deal with these matters — it is not just a matter for public legal advisers. But we have limited ourselves to many other important things. A very brisk pensioner can't go and deal with a neighbor's car trade dispute. It is also considered to be the case, even if the interest is EUR 5000, that it must have legal qualifications. Why, then, should anyone be able to assist in such an important matter as obtaining asylum, as this debate has proved, without any qualifications? There has already been a lot of mention here of the fact that the Bar Association has also been concerned about this very fact that there must be qualified persons there in the asylum appeal process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u93	Madam President! For the record, Mr Rydman, who unfortunately left, and Mr Kurvise, that the changes are taking the focus from an early stage to a court hearing, which will increase the number of complaints. It is precisely the Supreme Administrative Court that is concerned that there is a risk of increasing and worsening the work of the courts in the face of increased administrative clearance obligations and oral proceedings. I do not know whether Mr Hakkarainen is now known to Mr Kurvisen, but for the record:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u96	Madam President! I am not the person that Mr Kurvinen said, but from this point of view, what this is usually about, I can say to expert opinions that the more critical statements become, the better the government's proposals will be then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u99	Madam President! I would like to remind you that it may not be clear to all the speakers that we are now talking about people who have either experienced or are threatened by the worst things we can imagine: war, brutal violence, torture, rape, death. These are all, the whole fan, at hand in this debate, now in this debate. It is even a little tasteless, as Mr Kurvin has done, to compare these with the civil disputes with the neighbour about the location of the border fence where legal aid is not used. Now it's really serious things, really dramatic things, and now it's okay to be a little dramatic. You can't get over the drama here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u100	Madam Speaker! In short, I would like to point out to Mr Kontula that I meant that asylum matters are much more important than that of a neighbour's fence or car dispute, and if there is also a need for a lawyer at present at a certain level, why not also in this asylum process? This is just as a correction to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u101	Värderade Talman! In this regard, Mr Rydman said that we should not give a special picture of what is possible in Finland. This is precisely where it is now aimed that what is possible in Finland is not possible for everyone, apparently. The search for asylum is about fundamental human rights. These people are weak, they may have been tortured. They have often gone through events we cannot imagine here. It is now said that we are aiming for efficiency. But what is this efficiency? Is it to try to find out everything in support of the decision, or is it to try to deal with the matter as quickly as possible with as little information as possible? Is it to try to reduce the customer's help to the minimum, to put as many obstacles in the way of access to information as possible? This is not about good processing of applications. There are enormous problems in this package, and what is saddest is that these problems are known to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u102	Mr President! There are many points here and, of course, Mr Kurvinen, it is now easy to translate into and defend what is specifically a question of competence. We are probably all very concerned that things have not always gone quite as they were in Strömsö before, and that concern is being shared, but we can probably discuss the way in which this is going to be done in committee. The main problem, however, is that we are now seeking to deny everyone who does not have very strong reasons, even in the early stages — without knowing that they can't be ascertained — there is no one to verify and no one to demand — legal aid, the advice, the information about their rights so that they can tell us where they are. So we think that the fact that someone is given legal advice is something of a luxury that does not apply to foreigners and which should not concern people who are likely to
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u103	Mr. Speaker! Unfortunately, Mr Rydman has already left, but I think it is extremely dangerous to talk about streamlining processes, speeding up processes when it is really a question of undermining the legal security of a vulnerable group. I look forward with great horror, where the next process will be that which needs to be lightened, where legal protection will be waived in the name of easing or speeding up these processes. There is a certain level of legal certainty, and it requires a certain type of process, and that is what this is all about, not trying to lighten processes by undermining legal protection. In my opinion, that cannot be the case under the rule of law, and that must not be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u104	Mr President! As a member of the Administrative Committee, I also listened with interest to this debate, which is already about this spring heat in the air: the content of the speeches is quite firm, and the arguments are sought for and against. However, as far as this is concerned, I also agree with the opposition in this regard in the past that sufficient time has to be made available to deal with the matter. The fact that the government's proposal, the main content, puts forward the entry into force as soon as possible, naturally gives cause for doubt as to whether an adequate consultation will be carried out on this draft law. And an adequate hearing must be carried out because human rights are the basis of this civilised state and must also be the basis of our legislation. Torture, political persecution, genocide — such threats threaten thousands of people, perhaps tens of thousands of asylum seekers. We need to be able to pick up people from this crowd who truly are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u105	Mr President! I do not reject all the criticisms that have been made here, but I would like to point out, however, that we have tens of thousands of asylum seekers and will certainly continue to do so, so that we will have to look at the overall resources we have for this activity. I think that it is in everyone's interest to speed up this activity, to speed up the process. Although it may sound cold, it is ultimately in the interests of all those involved in the process. It should also be noted that it is also a factor of attraction if you get better legal services here in Finland than in another EU country. I believe that, even after this reform, our rule of law will still stand a full comparison with other EU countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u106	One last comment, Mr Hongisto and Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u107	Mr President! I'm afraid Mr. Nylander's been excused. I took his concern that legal protection would be compromised. We certainly all agree that legal protection should not be jeopardised for anyone. This bill states that according to the number of applicants for international protection who arrived in 2015, approximately 5,000 applications for permits would be expected for the Supreme Administrative Court, and currently the Administrative Court handles some 4,000 applications — that is, 4,000, of which the majority is the case of the People's Republic of Finland. Now there are more 5000 applications coming, and when we look at the risk of endangering legal protection, I think it is quite right to ask whose legal protection is being put at risk. I fully agree that no one's legal protection should be jeopardised, but when the resources are currently in the hands of 4,000 cases, and if there is more, till, 5000, it is quite certain that someone's legal protection will be jeopardised. We would have to increase so much resources in order to be able to handle all things, and it is not economically possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u108	Mr President! Mrs Saarakkala, we are sitting in the same committee, and I have received a very good picture of you and the image of a representative of Parliament who is committed to matters, and I do not want to believe that you are prepared, at the expense of speeding up, to reduce the quality of this kind of human rights study, which would give people the right that the rule of law can offer them. Although the situation is exceptional, although there are also persons who are not in need of international protection or from a human rights point of view in such a sensitive situation, I do not want to believe that a machine will be built to deal with matters in Finland so that we will deliver those people who have arrived from Finland back to the middle of torture, persecution and other horrors. This is something that Finland has already received warning and convictions about, and these processes must be taken seriously, this is not a matter of opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u109	Mrs Saarakkala's name was mentioned so many times that Mrs Saarakkala's reply was made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u110	Mr President! I certainly did not knock out all this criticism, but I am surprised if this bill goes straight into the opposition, as several Members have done. I think it is worth having a proper reading in Parliament now, see what the end result is, and if there are really major problems here, then I do believe that, on the basis of this very principle of the rule of law, Finland will be affected if there really is a bigger problem that is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u111	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u112	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Saarakkala that I believe that at some point there will probably be an intervention at EU level, but, as a general rule, intervention at EU level will be left behind, and when it comes to the fates of people, the very serious risks, it would be better to act in advance than to try to correct them afterwards. I would like to say a few words about trafficking in human beings and the victims of trafficking in human beings, because it seems to me that not everyone knows the mechanism by which the system for helping the victims of trafficking in human beings works. In particular, there are two points in this draft law to which this relates: on the one hand, restrictions on the provision of further clarifications or their tightening-up on the other, and on the other hand, the inclusion of a lawyer in an asylum interview only for serious reasons. In practice, this latter means that in order for you to have a legal counsel for the asylum interview, you should have assured someone, in some way, that you are dealing with a serious issue. This is already a difficult situation in general, given that there are many people in these people who are very low-level in education, almost everyone in Finland has a foreign legal system and hardly anyone knows the kind of language that could handle these matters properly. However, in the case of victims of trafficking in human beings, the issue is particularly difficult because the victimisation of trafficking in human beings in general is gradually being resolved during the process. There are very few victims of trafficking in human beings who walk to the police station and say 'Bye, I was trafficked, I have experienced these, these and these things'. There are a number of reasons why the whole process of victimisation of human trafficking is only gradually emerging. Firstly, the definition of trafficking in human beings itself is still unclear enough to make it difficult for lawyers, let alone for ordinary, perhaps uneducated people. Secondly, trafficking in human beings in general involves events that are shameful to man, perhaps even more shameful than death in his culture. He may have been raped dozens of times. He may have been forced to commit crimes which, of course, are not the first thing he goes to a foreign authority to talk about, especially if he comes from a country where the authorities are also a threat, perhaps even a threat to human trafficking. Moreover, there may be some pressure on either the person himself or his family even after he is in Finland. Both of these reforms I mentioned at the outset will increase the likelihood that these victims of trafficking will be identified in the future less than would be identified under the current system. Partly this also applies to victims of torture. These are perhaps the main reasons why I would appeal to the government to really, really seriously consider whether this reform, which the government's proposal says has no significant economic impact, is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u113	Mr President! In fact, I too, just as Mr Kontula, would perhaps like to pay particular attention to those people who are in the most difficult and most difficult situation, the identification of whom, at the very time when they are in contact with the authorities, is very important — the potential victims of trafficking in human beings. Some time ago, when Parliament has strengthened criminal legislation to better identify trafficking in human beings and to improve the status of these victims, the use of legal aid has been particularly emphasised. Parliament has specifically brought and ordered that it is very important that potential victims of human trafficking should be allowed to use legal aid as soon as possible. And Parliament has even said that, for example, the crime of pimping, in which it may very often be a question of trafficking in human beings, rather than of pimping, can be dealt with through the process with the legal adviser. That is why it seems somewhat contradictory for the government to now, in the case of those people who we know have a very high risk of being exposed to trafficking in human beings or other serious crime, to reduce the use of legal aid, which would make it easier for victims to be identified without heavy court proceedings. In 2014 the reception centres for asylum seekers in the system of assistance to trafficking in human beings made more than 30 per cent of the identifications, directing 30 per cent of potential victims to the system of assistance for trafficking in human beings. There were hardly any such references since July last year. This is a very worrying feature. This does not mean that trafficking in human beings has stopped; it probably means that at the moment there will probably be much more inexperienced, more inexperienced staff, especially in terms of trafficking in human beings, and that there will be so many customers in the reception system. This proposal makes it even more unlikely that anyone will be able to identify the victim of trafficking in human beings in this process. The government is proposing that, for a particularly serious reason, legal aid may be used, but the problem is, of course, that it is precisely these people who do not know. And we know from experience that it is not even noticeable. Just as Mr Kontula has spoken here, there are a number of reasons and I would like to name a few more, apart from what he has mentioned, that the victim or potential victim is not telling us about his situation. Few people understand the importance of this criminal law, even if they have learned to do so, but the fact that they do not even tell us what has happened is, of course, that they are very difficult events. And especially when it comes to a person who comes from a country that does not necessarily feel confident with the authorities, it takes a really long time for the authorities to build up a relationship that could inspire confidence so that they dare to tell. In many countries, the police are involved in trafficking and exploitation and can only be put in a worse position if you tell them, not to mention, of course, these other issues of shame. In addition, a human trafficking reporter in Finland has also stated that although the victim of human trafficking reports these events, many authorities, often even the police, do not understand that it is a matter of trafficking in human beings, but even sends the victim away or treats it as something else. We have noted that a legal adviser who builds a confidential relationship with this person will be better able to find out the information that will then contribute to that process in the future. And the sum summarum, it means that the process will become more efficient, shorter, cheaper rather than vice versa, as proposed in the government proposal. I think it is important that our legislation is based on the information we have. We have collected information about these processes, among other things. We know that this will happen. We know that we need legal aid at a very early stage, in particular to identify trafficking in human beings and other such serious situations that have made a person vulnerable. Why not act rationally and irrationally in this proposal as well? I hope that the committee will at least change this point in this government proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u114	Mr President! The proposal proposes that matters of international protection be dealt with as a matter of urgency by the courts. The appeal period would be reduced so that the appeal to the Helsinki Administrative Court in these cases should be made to the Supreme Administrative Court within 21 days and 14 days of the notification of the decision. The composition of the administrative court would be changed so that it would also have jurisdiction in matters of appeal to the Aliens Act in a composition consisting of two members. This proposal would change the conditions for the granting of a permit to appeal so that the authorisation could be granted only if, in similar cases or in the interests of consistency of case law, it is important to bring the matter before the Supreme Administrative Court or if there is another particularly serious reason for granting the authorisation. Mr President! The points contained in the proposal are positive steps in the right direction but quite inadequate. The vast majority of asylum tourists have come through at least ten safe countries to Finland, and even in Finland they have not had a concrete threat to their lives and health, even though they have learned to tell all kinds of stories. Most of them are young men traveling for free social security who are not interested in building their own country. They're interested in winging. Since they do not meet the criteria for international protection in the first place, I do not know why they should have the right to appeal at all. The right of appeal puts an excessive burden on our judicial system. That first application should be made as a quick decision at the border. If there are no relevant identity papers, the application should not be processed at all, but immediately undergo a quick translation and a stamp on the butt that does not come back. Mr President! About 32,500 applicants for international protection arrived in Finland last year. It is estimated that some 10,000 of the arrivals last year alone end up in the Helsinki Administrative Court and some 5,000 applicants remain in the Supreme Administrative Court. The Helsinki Administrative Court normally handles around 7,500 cases a year, while the highest Administrative Court handles 4,000 cases a year. The estimated increase in the number of complaints is considerable. If there are another ten times as many of these so-called asylum tourists here, where will our judicial system be? The number of applicants for international protection is also estimated to be high this year. In addition, family members of several beneficiaries of international protection from Finland are expected to apply for a residence permit on the basis of family ties in the next phase. Mr President! I estimate that a few ten, perhaps a hundred, have come to us in real need. We have to help them if their story is unmistakable. For everyone else, quick conversions are the only fair solution. The work of the Finnish Immigration Service and the decision-making process must be taken under the magnifying glass as the acceptance percentages are shocking. Mr President! Australia does not allow boats carrying asylum tourists to land at all. The Australian fleet will escort the boats to the nearest island that does not belong to Australia. The Nauru Islands and Papua New Guinea are the destination countries where the people who come to the camps are kept waiting. They fill out applications and are also waiting for decisions to be taken on them. The EU should follow suit from Australia. Since the decisions of the EU and the uniform implementation of the decisions of the Member States are apparently to be waited until the grave, we should be able to make independent decisions. Finland is not a world social welfare office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u115	Mr President! During this spring there will be quite a number of proposals from the Aliens Act and probably justifiable, but it must be admitted that it is challenging to manage the whole, because they come in small pieces and then the collective dimension, how to assess the significance of all these laws, for example, for one person, is a little unclear at the moment, and one may be concerned about that. Another view in general is that over the last autumn we had about the 32,500 that will be dealt with during the spring and then during the winter through the eastern border a few thousand more. If, and now that the eastern border has slowed down and Tornio is not yet coming in much and in normal years, so-called normal years, there have come to Finland between 3000 and 400 asylum seekers, do we have the idea that every year we are in the same situation as we were last September, or is it the case that in the future, when Finland is committing to larger quotas, such as the Syrians from Turkey, we are moving to something more controlled, more systematic, in that case, these legislative measures in the presentation today would not be needed at this volume? These are just like this as a general comment first. But then to this very legislative proposal. I think we all agree that it is humanly good if things can be dealt with quickly and people do not have to wait many months to get even the first decision or the second decision. But when it comes to asylum or protection matters and the people who are seeking them, the primary objective cannot be to speed up and save, but the first objective must be to ensure that legal protection is achieved and that these people receive proper treatment — in all these cases. And that is where I hope and believe — I heard that this is coming to the Administrative Committee when it is a foreign law, to which I hope the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Constitutional Committee will give an opinion — that this aspect will be strongly raised, as well as the Finnish administrative practices, which are also internationally respected, that all people should be treated equally, that no different practices should be created depending on the place of birth of a person, what kind of administrative practice will be implemented in Finland. There has been a reference here to the problems that we do not have the resources in the courts if they come in. And when I said in my own thinking that there is now a temporary possibility that there might be more than these complaints, please excuse the reference, but I was reminded a few years ago of the large congestion of the Market Court in connection with the procurement law, in which a supplementary budget was able to increase and dismantle the power of judges. How is it that suddenly when people’s affairs are dealt with, the only way is to reduce that right? Would it not be possible, in this case too, if — if I say ‘if’ — this kind of overwhelming congestion comes, then increase the resources of judges and others dealing with matters rather than simply diminishing human rights? But this may have been a mean parable, but this occurred to me when I listened to this conversation. I am still open to these various proposals, including the urgent handling of matters, as this may be very justified, or the reduction in the composition of administrative law, because it may be very justified not to have three but to be able to cope with two. The criticism has come from reducing the time limits for appeals and tightening the conditions for the permission of appeal. But I am confident that in the expert hearings these will be further illustrated. But perhaps the most critical aspect of this restriction on the use of legal aid is, for perhaps a small amount of time I can imagine whether a person who is seeking asylum is able to describe and know the Finnish legal system that it needs to be in order for him to be able to obtain legal aid on the basis of this new law. I do not believe that this information will be able to communicate to asylum seekers during the periods prior to this debate, or even if they are able to describe it in such a way as to enable Finns to assess the need for legal aid. That is why I think that this point in this legislation should be considered very carefully and perhaps amended if necessary. The question of eligibility is, of course, a big one. Generally speaking, it is usually good that we have some kind of criteria for people who like, however, government functions, are involved in doing. But the qualifications that it is in this case must, of course, be seen. To limit the use of assistants: when you look at those arguments in that legislation, there seems to be no sound basis, not even the recent savings, so my suspicion arises that what is the underlying purpose here. But I think the committee is going to go over these things carefully, and I think this is going to get the worst corners worked out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u116	Mr President! There are a lot of elements in this overall proposal that the Christian Democrats during the last term of government were driving and hoping that they would be addressed quickly. Now, this proposal focuses in particular on making this process smoother, particularly with regard to complaint procedures, when an asylum seeker receives a negative decision. For it to be successful, it requires a considerable increase in resources for the judiciary not to be completely suffocated in this new situation either. In time, when Minister Räsänen made a proposal for this, he stated in his statement that the administrative court is currently taking an average of 517 days to deal with this complaint. It's completely unreasonable. We also welcome this facilitation of assistant practice, although it should be carefully dealt with in that committee as to what guidance is being put on it. We are critical of the fact that this proposal does not involve the rapid conversion of people who threaten security. It would definitely have been part of this, its evaluation, so that such persons, who are very large in numbers... And even the fact that the protection police issue a statement about these people does not speed up this process at all. And that was a big shortcoming for us here. It should have come into this now. We understand that this will raise a lot of debate when it comes from the committee and that is a good thing: Finnish society needs a proper debate on our immigration and asylum policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u117	Congressman Huhtasuo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u118	Thank you. — Thank you, Mr Laukkanen, for these very good remarks, which I am sure will come back to later. I will keep this debate going, we need a proper debate, we always need the means to make immigration more realistic and this immigration more sensible. It is obvious that the arrivals will not stop, that crises and conflicts will continue, and the mere gap in living standards will be one that will ensure that hundreds of millions of people want Europe. And whether we now have less of what we will have next summer and what we will have in ten years' time, we cannot know. We do not know how EU systems work and, as we know, the EU is such a club where things agreed together have not always worked well. We do need action at EU, international and national level. And at this national level, we must get this under control, both in economic terms and in terms of security. And that is why this proposal now amends the law in such a way as to shorten appeal periods, limit legal aid and reduce the number of judges. These are small and important measures to reduce the costs and red tape of asylum seekers. And these legislative proposals are part of the 80th asylum programme presented by the government at the beginning of December, but we need more and more immigration policy measures, more measures to tighten immigration policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u119	Mr President! The rule of law and democracy are, in fact, the basis of all other well-being. And if we cheat on these things, we will not be able to build a sustainable system on it. That is why this debate has actually been rather absurd, because the reasons for the savings justify changes in how our judicial system works. I understand that we are looking for efficiency, and I understand many of these instruments, which have also been put forward here, such as the fact that the composition of judges could be smaller than it is at present or that we are looking for timetables that are stricter — but, as Mr Paatero said, usually when there is congestion, we are trying to dismantle the congestion with additional resources and then we are looking carefully at the changes that are being made in these processes. And now there is a slight feeling that the government has been pressing the panic button here, especially when it comes to restricting legal aid. As I think very well both Mr Biaudet and Mr Kontula described what is, for example, the background to trafficking in human beings and how difficult it is to identify the victim of trafficking in human beings, so if we dismantle this initial recognition system and the instruments that have been used to catch up with this phenomenon, then we are dealing with a much worse, more difficult and more cruel world, and I therefore hope that the committee will really look very closely at this aspect of legal aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u120	Mr President! I fully share Mr Filatov's concern here that we should take account of and, in some ways, ensure that both things can now be realised, on the one hand, that the judiciary is not constantly subjected to the power of money, but that the correct answer is always that — well not always, but increasing resources, especially for the judiciary at this point, is a matter of real importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u121	Mr President! The main objective of the draft law is to create the conditions for a more rapid handling of complaints concerning international protection and, at the same time, to reduce the costs incurred by the state economy, taking into account the need to deal with asylum applications without jeopardising the individual handling of cases and the legal protection of applicants for redress. Today, the Supreme Administrative Court handles some 4,000 cases a year. Based on the number of applicants for international protection in 2015, the highest administrative court is estimated to receive some 5,000 applications for a permit to appeal. The legislation currently in force allows the applicant to prolong the period of removal when, after the appeal has been withdrawn, a new decision to withdraw the application may be re-appealed to the Administrative Court and, in addition, suspend the enforcement of the refusal. Once the appeal has been withdrawn, the case may have been re-appealed and the previous final decision on the proselytism has not been enforced because of established practice. Such a back-to-back possibility of redress puts a disproportionate burden on our judicial system and may overshadow and prolong many other matters that await a judicial decision. This puts legal protection at risk for other persons. Mr President! I think that the bill is good and worthy of support. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u122	Mr President! This debate has been excellent in many respects, in many respects precisely what should be the subject of referrals to draft laws. I personally see that the aim of this proposal must be understood in many ways. A reasonable asylum procedure is effective and effective. At the same time, it is also a question of the legal protection of the applicant for protection. All in all, we must make the asylum process work, but of course we must also make it fair. Unfortunately, we also have to recognise the resources available. We must also be able to ensure that the whole works from the point of view of existing resources. But it has been extremely important to note in this debate, as Mrs Parviainen was the first to say, that in so many ways there are also extremely sensitive issues in relation to human rights, and this issue of legal aid, among other things, in relation to this law, must be taken very carefully into account. Of course, we cannot assume that the compromise on fundamental rights will put the economy in order. On many occasions, it has also been pointed out that this significance of the law should also be able to be assessed. In fact, I would also like to extend this slightly to the point that, when Mr Paatero said that there are now quite a few legislative proposals relating to immigration, there will be a number of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u123	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to another aspect that has not been included so far in the debate. This bill introduces a rather brutal series of weakenings in the legal protection of asylum seekers. Mr Amnesty states that this is a significant downgrading of justice, an effective remedy. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman considers this to be a serious problem of equality. The League of Human Rights criticises the fact that no impact assessments have been carried out. The Church’s Foreign Aid estimates that this will significantly undermine legal protection. The Finnish Red Cross finds this extremely worrying, the Refugee Advice Centre is opposed to the most important aspects. And the Chancellor of Justice considers it important that this be used through the Constitutional Committee. Most of these speakers believe that the speed of handling matters is not a problem in itself, but criticise the poor preparation of the government's proposal, the poor consultation of experts and the fact that promptness is sought at the cost of legal protection. Well, then that's my point. What if all these experts are right? What, though, is the case that this amendment of the law leads to miscalculations? What if we are involved here in sending people to die or expose them to serious human rights violations that would not have happened if this change were not made? We will never know, because there is no mechanism in our system to monitor what happens to the people who are being sent away from Finland. It may be that many people move on with their lives as they did before they went on their journey. It may be that someone disappears, someone is victimized back to trafficking in human beings, someone ends up in some prison. We don't know. No one knows. In general, when politicians make somewhat controversial and conscientious decisions, an appeal is always added to that decision that the impact will then have to be evaluated afterwards and that Parliament will be informed of what happened. We cannot make such an addition this time, because we have no way of assessing whether or not this went wrong and how badly it went wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u124	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen made a statement in his recent speech that we in Finland are now making sure that the interests and rights of asylum seekers will not in any way be ignored. In fact, I think we are even naive in this regard. In his good speech, Mr Hakkarainen compared Finland's immigration policy with Australia, where the processes there were built primarily in the interests of the nation and largely underlining the importance of the applicant's adaptability. In Australia, the emphasis is also on economic aspects on a completely different scale than we do in Finland. In view of the fact that Australia is part of the same Western cultural circle as Finland, we would also have a good opportunity to learn from it in immigration policy. This bill as a whole is particularly welcome and also from the point of view of the resources of administrative rights. Of course, we'll have to do a lot of other stimulants. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats very humbly and especially Mr Laukka for his very constructive opposition policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u125	Mr President! First of all, I would like to mention once again that since previous governments have created this fragile asylum system and have not corrected its weaknesses when they have been tabled by the Finns on the opposition, a mistake has already been made and we are now merely correcting the effects of this fatal error in some way. The government will have to correct these consequences, and indeed in a certain way it will be unpleasant to do so, precisely because of the fact that the laws have not changed in such a time as they should have changed in the first place, and we have been caught off guard at this level of the law. The asylum system is out of date. We must look to the future in such a way that the asylum system would no longer be based on illegal border crossings, but rather on a move towards a quota system. This government proposal is moving in the right direction, speeding up the process. At the same time, however, we must also remember that the return policy must be improved, that it must be effective, that it can also be an attractive factor in speeding up the process itself. I believe that the concerns expressed here about human rights and legal security are appropriate and must also be taken into account in the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u126	Mr President! It has been quite interesting to listen to these speeches on this subject today. Some of the speakers still seem to believe that a large number of these asylum seekers are in some way in dire need. I think this bill is excellent, because it substantially shortens the time and weakens the chances of inventing a story with which this residence permit is easily accessible. In the past, reception centres and other circles dealing with asylum seekers were correctly advised in these applications and interviews that what kind of stories should be told there and what wordings to use. I know that because in my previous life I have had these appropriate wordings there turning. I hope the Fatherland forgives me for these old sins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u127	Yes, I would simply say to Mr Eerola that I do not personally take a stand on how many of these 30,000 people meet the asylum criteria and how many do not. I have no such knowledge, as probably no one else in this Chamber does. All we have are reviews. But it is likely that if a careful examination of the fundamental principles of the rule of law is compromised, these mistakes will happen in both directions, not only so that the person entitled to asylum may, in principle, be restored, but also so that those who are not entitled to it may get one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u128	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u129	Mr President! This is one of the most significant changes in law in all its smallness. This allows for the removal of deceased associations from the register of associations. As we know, Finland is the promised country of the associations and almost all associations are set up. But the register is full of unworkable associations that cannot be removed from it without the association itself shutting itself down. The proposal allows the registration authority to initiate its own initiative the removal of associations that have ceased to exist from the register of associations. In addition, the winding-up procedure based on the association's own decision and the liability of the liquidator and those who received funds from the winding-up association would be clarified. I have been involved in some associations to dismantle them in such a way that there has been one person at the meeting of the association, and it also seemed to me that what is here, like the true legitimacy of the members of the association, is that they feel that things are going right when there is no one here but one person to abolish the association. This is possible, and it decides on the allocation of existing funds and so on. Of course, they are carried out in accordance with the rules of the association, but it is good that these matters now become clearer and more precise. Then here we are proposing minor regulations, harmonising technical changes to the Business and Community Information Act and the Freedom of Religion Act. These changes are also welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u130	Mr President! As the previous speaker said, this is a good change of law that is coming. In other words, it is intended that those associations which have not worked for 20 years and which have not changed that register can be removed. In this context, however, we should bear in mind that in practice many associations operate regularly irregularly, but these obligations to register there have not been met. For this reason, all of us should now raise this issue as we move around Finland, so that it would not come as a surprise to see that an association that works in practice ceases after next August. Of course, there are ways of doing that in that proposal too, if that is the case. But I think it would be a good idea for us associations to make such a big noise now that this amendment of the law should be taken into account in that association — so that there would be no damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u131	Mr President! This is a very good idea, and probably most of these associations, whose data has not been changed for 20 years, need to be deleted. But as the previous speaker also pointed out, in my experience there are sections within many associations, such as the sports club. There may be ten of them inside one sports club, and although the actual so-called parent association no longer works, it may be that those sections continue only on their own, and unfortunately not all of us, the members of the organization, are always aware of the fact that a government agency should be informed that the chairman has changed and so forth. That is why, of course, we hope that some way will then find out what the real situation is. Then, in this context, I cannot help but say that, when we have these registers and associations, it is quite difficult to remember, for example, to report separately to the register of associations and to the tax office, why can't a system be created in the country, that if I file a register of associations, then the same information about the signatories or contact persons of the association would also be passed on to the tax authority or vice versa, because this would make it easier for many associations to operate, sometimes ignoring one or the other, and then the papers will go to different addresses and then for one or the other reason they might not be taken care of, when only some of them have been taken care of. And this is just simple technology and improving people's contact details.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u132	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u133	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law on the posting of workers and certain related laws is definitely a step in the right direction, albeit a very short step. It is particularly good in this proposal that the construction sector is subject to the obligation of the developer or main contractor to determine unpaid wages. It is also important that companies send workers to Finland and that the legislation be clarified and harmonised in general. These are all factors that will facilitate monitoring in the future. Well, as I read the bill, I was already so excited that, unlike my manners, I was going to write a speech in which I commend the government before I became more familiar with it that it was a question of implementing the minimum conditions of the directive, which is a real thank-you to the EU. The directive itself would have allowed much more far-reaching and wiser regulation, but so far Finland does not seem to have the courage to do so. The next important steps to improve the position of posted workers and migrant workers in general and to tackle the related problems are to strengthen international cooperation in order to eradicate collective bargaining. In Finland, it would be particularly important to have properly proportionate sanctions in place — if the fine is not lifted, then the limitation of operating conditions in the form of sanctions would be particularly important. At the moment, the situation is that a medium-sized company prefers to pay lower wages and then fines for it rather than pay its proper employer obligations. The third important point that we should pay very different attention to is the strengthening of the safety net for workers. The Finnish labour market system, the Finnish working life, relies on the idea of a fairly independent and strong worker with a trade union movement. Many of the people who come to Finland from elsewhere come from such cultures where trade union-based security is scarcely available or organised in a very different way than in Finland. That is why they do not have the skills to use these ay-based safety nets, and when our system is so one-sidedly relying on them, they will in practice be left in a less secure position than would be caused by foreign workers alone and lack of language skills alone. Much could be done about this through legislation and giving the authority greater powers of control to compensate for the exclusion of this ay culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u134	Mr President! For a very long time, Finland has sought to find the tools to monitor that posted workers' working conditions are fair and that in Finland wages and other Finnish employment benefits are paid to everyone and that there is no unfair competitive situation. We have often come across a wall where the EU has been prevented from using the instruments we have wanted to use, and the reason has been that it has been considered that those instruments are a barrier to the free movement of services across borders. Now we are in a rather strange situation where the EU has become a directive that would allow much wider and stricter instruments to be used, but the government has chosen a path where it will go on at the minimum. However, even that minimum is an improvement on the current situation, and in that sense one can be satisfied that, for example, a prior notification procedure for posted workers will be in place and that, in the public sector too, if there is doubt as to the availability of wages, there will be an obligation to clarify. However, what remains to be considered here is that, in general, the EU logic is based on the fact that certain clearing obligations or other matters, as it were, relating to supervision or security, must not only be imposed on posted workers or on cross-border trade, but must also apply to national activities, and here, if I have correctly understood the government's proposal, it is assumed that, for example, the obligation to settle claims on salaries would only be imposed on posted workers. Then we may run into a situation where this cross-border movement of services is hindered in a way that is not possible and may be contrary to EU law. Finally, I would like to remind you that when we are so happy to compare ourselves with Germany and want to introduce German models in working life, [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : if the representative moves to the speaking It's been two minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u137	Mr President! This is where the excellent speeches have been made by the representatives of Mr Filatov and Mr Kontula, and I would like to point out that, when this comes to committee in due course, there would be a debate about the fact that in Finland Christian organisations are sending very many workers around the world for so-called missionary work. When, a few years ago, these missionaries were included in this general collective agreement, in practice, it meant that, when they were able to do their work in a country where the standard of living was quite different, they were suddenly forced to pay multiple wages for doing this work with a very small amount of work. As a result, many organizations had to call these missionaries home because the amount of money available for this work was no longer sufficient to employ so many workers. Since then, there has been some sort of shortcut in which it has been possible to agree, as it were, to settle for less pay than what the collective agreement says, but there has been a risk that if one day one comes to regret and decides to ask for its difference back, it would certainly win in court. It would have been good if more thought had been given to this problem in this context, even though it may not be so familiar with the employment administration. But I hope that we can come back to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u138	Mr President! In my former life, as a researcher of information work, I spent one month in Olkiluoto, a barracks village, together with over a thousand construction workers, some of whom were just posted workers from all over Europe. They had been brought to Finland or produced by hundreds of different companies, and one can understand that there were so many different working conditions, many different positions there. I saw some rents there: The Rock of Helsinki offers the same or better place at the same price as you get in the middle of the hut next to Olkiluoto. I saw dark wages there: part of the salary was paid so that the company’s boss came to the parking lot and handed out the bills straight out of his pocket. There I saw unpaid wages, which the workers were afraid to ask, and I also came across a consistent underpaid salary, which in Finland cannot be addressed very much unless it exceeds a certain level of grossness. What can these people do when something happens that is not appropriate in our labour market? It's practically nothing. They have no tools to question that situation. The health and safety authorities were not very interested in the nuclear power plant site — I think they had been running a construction site for years before the health and safety authorities carried out a proper inspection there for the first time. The police weren't too interested in it. Still after leaving the Olkiluoto construction site, I went through reports of crimes or requests for investigation made to the police: none of them had led to trial. The most common reason for the interruption was that it is so difficult when there are so many languages and there are so many requests for investigation abroad, and this has been a long time since everyone has already disappeared from the landscape. And as I said earlier, Finnish ay culture is not very good at caring for migrant workers either. Since I was in Olkiluoto, it has been a few years now, but the basic pattern has remained unchanged. The migrant worker is still vulnerable in Finland. I do not believe that it is possible to resolve this by means of legislation alone. It requires a broader reflection on the Finnish context, the Finnish labour market and its security networks, but I stress how important this is. It is not just a question of some companies competing with cheap labour and thus producing us a cheap labour market. The issue is also that more serious crime does not arise in a vacuum. More serious crime needs as its platform such a twilight, tiny area of lawlessness, sometimes in which all sorts of shady business is a bit permitted. There will be trafficking in human beings, and there will be other serious crime that we do not want in this society. In this respect, I see that this is a much wider issue than the big problem in itself, the survival of migrant workers as part of this labour market system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u139	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u140	Mr President! A few brief comments. I understand in that way that these pilot laws for the flexible implementation of basic vocational qualifications are excellent and important in many ways. And I'm sure you can say that the change to this funding law is all right. Of course, it is clear that these major cuts, which are targeted at vocational education and training, will sting the providers of education, but it is clear that the reform of the basis of calculation will then enable the organiser of the training to adjust its activities in the way he wants, and it will take this whole forward positively. Then there's the second detail, this screen exam. I understand that in itself the so-called. The evidence examination is indeed an excellent form of study and should be maintained and developed, but then, in the context of the examination of this law, it seems to me to be worth assessing very carefully whether there is a real need for a committee of qualifications associated with this examination or whether it is unnecessary. Quite a lot of feedback has come from the fact that are these Commissions of Evidence really of any reasonable benefit or should they be dismantled? In this context, a short question: i.e. whether the amendment to this pilot law also means the possibility of carrying out evidence-based training by the education organiser
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u141	Mr President! Vocational adult education and related evidence examination system is a valuable resource in the ongoing change in working life in the Finnish educational field. This is an instrument for the needs of the employee or otherwise only for changers in the sector. I hope, of course, that the experiment will be successful, but I hope that the field of vocational adult education will continue to be maintained throughout the country for a number of regional needs. Of course, it is unfortunate to read at the moment that there have also been negotiations in adult education centres. Then there is this red tape relating to the examination of evidence, which Mrs Korhonen raised. Every flower of bureaucracy must certainly be looked at, if you can say so, but I also understand it from the point of view of the student's legal certainty as to what is involved in this government proposal, such as these registers or the preservation of information on the role of the assessor or of information on preparatory training. The sum summarum, in adult education, in particular as regards preparatory education and the associated evidence examination, is necessary to maintain this identification of previously acquired information and thereby recognition and thus flexible adult training paths.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u142	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u143	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to repeal the provision that the licence holder of a fishing vessel of less than 10 metres overall length or the master of a vessel authorised by him is obliged to submit a catch report also for the months during which the fishing vessel has not been fished. This is a clear rationalisation and we should thank the government for this. So, thank you, the board, for this presentation. In the past, the Member States of the European Union have been allowed to decide how to collect data on fishing trips and catches of fishing vessels of less than 10 metres. Until the law enters into force, which I hope will come as soon as possible, the notification shall be made at least every calendar month for the following calendar month 20. by the date of entry into force of this Regulation, at the latest by the date of entry into force of this Regulation, of all catches to the Ely Centre of fish species other than those covered by the fishing quota scheme. The notification must also be made for the months during which the fishing vessel has not been fished, i.e. in Finland it means at least winter on inland waterways. For fishing vessels which are part of the fishing quota system, the reporting period for catches of fish species is considerably shorter. The notification shall be made within 48 hours of the end of the landing. European Union legislation currently obliges operators to report, within 48 hours, all fishing trips carried out by fishing vessels of 10 metres or more but less than 12 metres, irrespective of whether or not fish have been caught on the voyage. Fishing vessels over 12 metres shall provide equivalent information electronically within 24 hours of landing and after landing. These declarations are therefore understandable and are made because of the desire to obtain reliable information on the activity of coastal fishing vessels and to be able to monitor compliance with fishing quotas and so on. At the beginning of this year, more than 2,000 fishing vessels of less than 10 metres had been registered in the register of Finnish seagoing vessels, 142 fishing vessels of at least 10 metres long but less than 12 metres long, and 60 fishing vessels of at least 12 metres had been registered in the register, so the reporting obligation applies to a very significant number of commercial fishermen. The current Law on the system of penalties and controls for the Common Fisheries Policy entered into force from the beginning of 2015. Last year, however, it was already noted that the obligation to report catches to both commercial fishermen and to the Ely Centre that records declarations is excessive and does not bring any similar benefit to the available resources. The current reporting obligation was previously assessed as contributing to the updating of the register of seagoing fishing vessels and the register of commercial fishermen, since the reporting obligation concerns commercial fishermen and fishing vessels registered in those registers. I do not think there is any doubt about this in the future, because in any case every commercial fisherman has registered as a commercial fisherman either in category 1 or in category 2 at the Ely Centre. Mr President! The purpose of the Government's proposal is to reduce the workload of commercial fishermen and the administration. Commercial fishermen may continue to make the above-mentioned declarations if they so wish in the months in which they have not fished, but it will no longer be mandatory in the future. As mentioned in the proposal, the accuracy of fishing catch data may be reduced in the future if commercial fishermen forget to submit monthly catch declarations also for the months during which they have fished. However, the catch declarations will be improved by an electronic notification system which will hopefully work better than the Rural Development Agency Mavin Hyrrä system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u144	Mr President! Mr Kulmala used almost word for word the speech I had prepared, but I repeat it so that the review is the mother of the studies. So, here we go. Under the current law, the holder of a fishing licence for a fishing vessel of less than 10 metres overall length or the master of a vessel authorised by that vessel shall issue at least every calendar month the following calendar month 20. by the date of notification to the Ely Centre of all catches of fish species other than those covered by the fishing quota scheme received on the fishing vessel concerned. The notification shall also be made for months in which no fishing has been carried out. The purpose of the Act was to collect comprehensive and reliable data on activity and catch of coastal fishing vessels. At the beginning of this year, 2228 fishing vessels of less than 10 metres had been registered in the Finnish maritime register. It has now been observed that this obligation to report for months not fished in particular is excessively heavy on commercial fishermen and Ely centres. The benefits and information received have not been proportional to the amount of work carried out, and it is therefore proposed that the law be amended so as to remove this obligation to notify the non-fishing months. The purpose of the proposal has been to reduce the workload of fishermen and the administration. In other words, this is a direct action under the Government's de-standardisation programme and is therefore very much to be welcomed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u145	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u146	Mr President! The draft law proposes to repeal the law on the redemption of property sold by forced auction to the State. The current law is laid down on the basis of 1938 and the needs of those times. The world has changed and people's needs have changed in the same way. Today, social legislation has evolved so that there is no longer any need to safeguard family housing and housing by relying on the provisions of the redemption law. Furthermore, the state no longer needs to redeem agricultural and forestry land by forced auction. In 2013 and 2014, enforcement authorities reported to Ely Centres 294 of the forced auctions of real estate pursuant to the Redemption Act. None of these notifications led to measures. Laws have been applied in forced auctions for the last time in the 1980s and 1990s. This, if anything, clearly indicates that the law is behind its time and it is therefore necessary to repeal it. The repeal of the law would substantially reduce unnecessary administrative work related to forced auctions of real estate, since enforcement authorities would no longer have to notify ely centres of forced auctions of real estate covered by the law. This reduces unnecessary work and bureaucracy and is once again a worthy cause in the government's deregulation programme. Mr President! I am in favour of adopting the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u147	Mr President! With this government proposal, the goal of a smoother regulation and the dismantling of standards, which the government has highlighted as a key project, is being implemented again in one small step. As Mr Hongisto said, the proposal proposes that the law of 1938 on the redemption of property sold by forced auction be repealed. The Redemption Act has become obsolete and its content is incompatible with the state aid rules of the European Union. Nevertheless, the validity of this law has cost taxpayers a great deal of money. In this context, unnecessary administrative work has been carried out in connection with the forced auctions of real estate, as real estate is in practice not redeemed. Although the number of real estate returns prescribed by this Act has been limited to some 160 to 170 copies per year, it has also contributed to the resource of an otherwise lax enforcement operation. In the future, this input can also be used for other tasks. Better regulation is indeed seen as a better public economy and easier everyday life for Finns. Mr President! Yet there is still a lot to be done in the deregulation sector. Unfortunately, we have a number of similar obsolete regulations in the legislation. The best and frequently used example is a 17th-century building block, the 12th chapter of which defines, among other things, how pigs can be counted into the aristocrat forest. Mr President, you heard correctly: how can pigs be counted in the acorn forest? Even if the direct costs of this legislation are not borne by the taxpayer, it would be good if such regulations could be removed or modified in order to create better legislation for Finns. During this government, trades and barbershops have already been cut down, but more is needed. There's a lot of examples. A reform of the Audit Act will come to Parliament during the spring. In this context, it is necessary to ensure that Finnish companies are not subject to more stringent requirements than those required by EU regulations. On the zoning side, there is a need for a substantial increase in the layer-square threshold that triggers large-scale retail regulation in order to increase investment in the shopping centre. In the best case scenario, new players would be brought to the market to challenge the current highly concentrated grocery trade. There is also a lot to be done with agricultural bureaucracy. For example, when the inspectors of the Ely Centres measuring the area of the field receive a different measurement result from the unchanged area, the farmer is penalised for the changed area by the loss of aid. Mr President! The common will of the government parties and, hopefully, of the opposition is that such shortcomings should be rectified in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u148	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u149	Mr President! This report by the Administrative Committee on the Government's proposal to amend the Aliens Act first of all takes a position on the conditions for international protection. The explanatory memorandum states that, taking into account the case-law of the EU Directive on the definition of the definition of a residence permit granted on the basis of humanitarian protection, there are no longer any grounds similar to those assessed at the time of the implementation of this Directive. Applicants for international protection may be granted a residence permit on the basis of humanitarian protection if there are no conditions for granting asylum or subsidiary protection, i.e. under this legislation in force. Indeed, this has been included in the Aliens Act in the context of the national implementation of this EU definition directive. However, it must now be borne in mind that the concept of humanitarian protection and the conditions for obtaining a residence permit are national regulations which are therefore not based on European Union law or international obligations. This situation at the time has been assessed. This has been the subject of a report by the Administrative Committee on 26/2008. The Administrative Committee considers it necessary to remove this category of humanitarian residence permit from a foreign law. This fact does not alter the fact that Finnish legislation continues to meet the requirements of the European Union and international obligations in the future. The Administrative Committee has then also taken a position in its report on the non-refoulement ban. The Constitution includes a ban on expulsion, extradition or return of a foreigner who is therefore threatened with the death penalty, torture or other forms of human dignity. The committee notes that a return ban is absolute and that the repeal of the provisions on residence permits granted on the basis of humanitarian protection does not mean that this principle of non-refoulement can be violated. Then the committee has also taken the view that there is a need to distinguish between, on the one hand, non-refoulement situations and, on the other hand, practical difficulties in returning or returning a person who has received a negative decision under authority. However, a residence permit shall not be issued if the return of a foreigner is not carried out because he refuses to return to his or her country of residence or makes the arrangement for his or her return more difficult. On this point, the Administrative Committee has also stated in its report 47/2014 that a situation cannot be considered acceptable for a person to decide to remain in the country without having received a residence permit, i.e. a residence permit that is required to remain in a legal country. The committee then also took a position on the extension of the permit, i.e. on the conditions for granting the extension of the permit under Article 54 of the Aliens Act. The starting point of the government's proposal is that residence permits will no longer be processed on the basis of this humanitarian protection, and it will therefore also apply to further permits. According to the study received, in practice, a residence permit can also be granted on grounds other than those on which the first permit was previously granted. This is where the committee draws attention, for example, to the fact that the first residence permit on the basis of humanitarian protection is granted for each year when other permits are granted on the basis of international protection for four years. This is partly a message to the authorised person that his stay will be re-estimated no later than one year from now. The granting of a residence permit is always based on a permit examination within the framework of the provisions, and the permit is not renewed on the initiative of the authority and the applicant has had to apply for an extension of the permit himself. Then the government’s proposal included a legislative proposal for notification of the decision. This proposal also proposes that the notification of the decision on international protection be made more effective in situations where, for example, the decision is positive for the applicant. The present Statement of Challenges shall be replaced by the service of the decision in another way, in evidence. This means, for example, forwarding service by post against a certificate of receipt or handing over a decision to the addressee or his representative. The committee has no objection to the arguments put forward by the Board of Directors that it is sufficient to be notified by post against a certificate of receipt in the event of a decision which is wholly favourable to the applicant. However, if the authority considers that there is reason to do so, the service may also be served as a statement of challenges, in which case the authority is either the Finnish Immigration Service or, at the request of the Finnish Immigration Service, the police. If a decision has been taken to remove the applicant from the country, the notification will be submitted by the police or, at the request of the police, by the Finnish Immigration Service. The notice of challenge will always be issued by the police or by the border inspection authority, and the committee agrees with the arguments put forward by the government that this statement of challenges will be used in a situation where there is a particular reason to do so. Then, on the transitional provisions in the expert consultation, it became clear that the draft law does not contain transitional provisions. In this regard, the committee notes, on the basis of the report it has received, that this will be decided on the basis of the practice and circumstances of the legislation in force on the day of the settlement, as an example, that the situation of the applicant's country of origin is constantly assessed and that the decision is based on up-to-date information and an overall assessment. Finally, Mr President, there is also the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which shows that the draft law can be dealt with in the order in which ordinary legislation is adopted. This report by the Administrative Committee is not unanimous but contains two objections, one of which has a draft amendment and the other with a motion for rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u150	Mr President! The inclusion of a humanitarian criterion in the 2008 Aliens Act has been justified because it does not contain all the elements currently covered by the Qualifications Directive, which the European Union has adopted. So that's when you could have gotten asylum in a narrower sector than you do at the moment. That is why it becomes a matter of a separate domestic, which is only in Sweden and Finland — and is being removed, at least temporarily in Sweden — to be removed from our national legislation, because now, after that, our assessment of the need for asylum and subsidiary protection is based on the Geneva Convention on Refugees and this directive of the definition of the European Union. In this way, we also respect Nordic unity. But then it has been justified. This has also become confirmed by the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Union — or then the Court of Justice of the European Union — and the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court here in Finland have strengthened the status of asylum seekers and, through its handling, then laid down guidelines for whom it is possible to grant a residence permit. And because of these additional arguments, we also believe that this definition of humanitarian aid can now be abolished. In this system of one and four years, which only existed on this humanitarian basis, there are now about 170 people who have received a one-year residence permit and are therefore in the process of processing that four-year residence permit. That is why the Socialist Group in the Committee on Administrative Affairs has tabled a proposal for a clause on this transitional provision, the entry into force provision, so that for these 170 people, some of whom would probably be eligible for the extension of the residence permit and some of them might not, the same argument would be used, that is to say, the need for humanitarian protection — only for these 170 people, so as not to change the arguments in the middle of the journey as to why they have received the first one. Of course, even in these cases it may be that the situation in the country of origin has changed, and perhaps that argument has changed. But this domestic argument on this humanitarian basis would remain in our motion for this transitional provision for these people. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the article, which will probably be put to the vote tomorrow, and when it did not go through in committee, we will then object to this. The second thing that was discussed was this communication, how people who receive or do not receive a residence permit will then be left with this information. The only humane and rational use of resources is that, especially in these positive cases, it is possible to lighten the procedure so that it does not necessarily have to be a police officer, but can also be brought by the Finnish Immigration Service for this kind of positive permission for people to know. The Administrative Committee was largely in agreement. That is why I would like to thank all the members of the committee and, on this one point, we shall put this motion to the vote. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u151	Mr President! As stated in this committee's report, the aim behind this government's proposal is the long-standing desire of Finland to harmonise the regulation of these transnational issues, such as this acute migration, throughout the European Union and to seek uniform legislation. That is also what this proposal is based on, and it is justifiable, against that objective, that this proposal should now be taken through. In this context too, it may be worth saying, as Mr Paatero well went through, that the single European regulation is now largely in line with what we have applied for at national level in these three different categories, in which case, although this change is partly tightened up, it will be much less stringent than if it were not regulated back then in 2007. But then to this protest which Mr Paatero mentioned, which our demarcation group really did leave: perhaps, in this situation, however, it is humane for these 170 people who are here on a one-year residence permit and who are now primarily concerned with this amendment, that they should actually be subject to this old legislation and then be considered to be subject to its extension on the basis of this legislation. As I said, it would be human, but it would also, in part, certainly make it easier, at least in the sense that we do not, at least appropriately, create a situation in which more paperless people are born in Finland. This is where the chairman of the committee well went through the fact that it is a different matter to talk about a return ban and that for some other reason it is a failure to return, but it is certainly not appropriate for us to push our policy to the point that we are also giving birth to more paperless people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u152	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the Aliens Act and the report before the Administrative Committee is linked to a change in law which will indeed remove the concept of the right of asylum under humanitarian protection from our national legislation. In the past, an asylum seeker could be granted a residence permit on the basis of humanitarian protection, unless the conditions for granting asylum or subsidiary protection have been found. However, this concept of humanitarian protection has been a matter of national regulation and is not based on EU law or international obligations, as has been demonstrated in previous speeches. And this concept has been added to our own national legislation, even though harmonisation throughout the EU was also sought in the past. In view of these considerations, this new proposal is clearly a step in the right direction. It should also be noted that last year, on the basis of humanitarian protection, only a little over a hundred people were granted a residence permit, that is to say a small number, but nevertheless we legislators have to ensure that we in Finland eliminate additional attraction factors compared to other EU countries. This amendment of the law is a good step in relation to that objective, at least in principle, especially since our starting point is to make our legislation and its application practices at least as stringent as in other Nordic countries. Perhaps one day we could follow the example of Estonia, our southern neighbour. Mr President! On these grounds, among other things, I very much welcome the draft law, and the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also states that the draft law does not contain any constitutional problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u153	Mr President! I am delighted to welcome this government proposal. This will reduce the additional attraction factors that affect Finland as a result of this so-called asylum tourism, and will also help to close loopholes when these residence permits are no longer granted on the basis of humanitarian protection. I think that Parliament should put its thumbs up for this performance and turn its thumbs down to asylum tourism. I am a little surprised by this objection made by the representatives of the SDP, based on these 170 persons who are on a fixed-term residence permit in Finland on the basis of the legislation currently in force: as a reason they have this, if they were then denied this extension authorisation by the new legislation, they could become undocumented, i.e. they would remain unauthorized here in Finland. Therefore, if you do not want to leave the country, there would be a reason for you to be allowed to be in the country, and this is certainly an intolerable argument, although I understand, as from a human point of view, that it is a pity for them if, with this new legislation, their situation changes, but as a society, we cannot allow such an exception, and that is why this amendment, which the representatives of the SDP have tabled here, is not to be welcomed. Of course, the fact that the RKP and the Left Alliance have protested against the motion to reject the whole proposal does not surprise anyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u154	Mr President! This bill now under discussion will strengthen the position of asylum seekers in Finland. In Europe, however, Finland's share of the number of refugees is not very high, only a fraction of the share of other countries, which has been targeted here in the EU. The fact that Finnish legislation has so far allowed humanitarian protection has shown us the sincere desire of Finns to help people in distress. And this law, which has so far been in force, has not been a temptation law, for there have been very few applicants and beneficiaries of humanitarian protection. These decisions have been about humane grounds for granting asylum. These criteria have so far been part of Finnish civilised decision-making. Now these amendments to the Aliens Act and the prevention of humanitarian protection undermine the practice of the current law and also cause difficulties for those who already have a temporary residence permit for humanitarian protection in Finland. It will make their future very difficult. Instead of hampering the position of people in need of protection, we need to invest more actively in integration. This is in the interests of all of us. That is why we cannot accept the amendment of the law, and we are in favour of rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u155	Mr President! I should like to touch on what Mrs Saarakkala raised, this really 170 people. It should be remembered that certainly some of these 170 people, who are actually on this year’s residence permit in Finland, will continue to receive a residence permit, even on the basis of this new legislation. Probably some of these 170 people are covered by this return ban and will therefore receive a residence permit. And there are certainly also those people who have already established such relationships, for example here in our society, that they will receive a residence permit. But then there will also be those who will probably no longer receive a residence permit under this new legislation and who will not necessarily be prevented from leaving the country directly, but then there will be such practical obstacles, such as whether we have a return agreement with the country to which a person should return, even if in force. And, as we know, especially in these reluctant returns, Finland has not succeeded in establishing the return agreements to the extent that it would probably be desirable to have people born to us, who are, in a way, left in the middle. They cannot be returned to their country of origin and, on the other hand, they will not be given a residence permit here, which will create a situation in which a person may then go underground and become undocumented. At least our group does not want to speed up this development, and yet it is probably always better that every person who is staying in Finland is registered somewhere, and not that we are born with two-storey people in this respect too. In that sense, this change we are proposing is certainly not a cost issue, but rather a matter of humanity and, on the other hand, the use of reason.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u156	Mr President! However, when it comes to the SDP's objection to the paperless, we must always be careful, because your party in the last period, and the last government, put forward this legislation for the paperless in order to increase health care. It has made me ask here what this protest of yours is about in the final analysis. But it is good to hear that it is not about anything that has previously been the case with the SDP in relation to the undocumented. And I also hope that the opposition, in particular the SDP, would support the Government's 80-point programme to tighten up this asylum policy, which, among other things, has been publicly supported by President Rinne. Now, in the future, when these proposals are brought in, we hope that we will find that support with you. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u157	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u158	Mr President! The purpose of this bill is to reform the process of payment of imputed compensation under the Act on Integration. The purpose of this is to combine information and processing systems, i.e. data from the electronic processing system for foreign affairs maintained by the Finnish Immigration Service and the Population Information System maintained by the Population Register Centre, so that this compensation can be managed by means of combined data without a separate application. The aim of this proposal is to promote digitalisation through this automation. Thus, the administrative burden on municipalities can also be reduced, customer processes and compensation processes can be speeded up and manual work in municipalities can be reduced. At the same time, it is estimated that this will offset the billing peaks and increase the reliability and consistency of payments. According to the study, almost 80% of the persons covered by the compensation would first be covered by automation. The municipalities will then continue to be able to apply for compensation for persons who are covered by the imputed compensation but who cannot be automatically extracted from this information system by means of an application to the Centre for the Development and Administration of Employment and Economic Development Offices (KEHA). The challenges in the scope of automation are also caused by the fact that all asylum seekers and those who are entitled to a residence permit through family reunification do not necessarily receive a personal identity code when granting a residence permit, so that, in a way, joining this automatic information system will be transferred and payment will then follow the receipt of a personal identity code. The Administrative Committee is pressing for measures to reduce the need for manual handling of these imputed compensations. The number of asylum seekers has increased, and yet, in the explanatory statement of the proposal and the study obtained, it has been estimated that manual forms are still needed in large cities and that they may take years to give up. Other processes to be developed in addition to information systems, i.e. better information on registration, guidance on the person to submit a migration notification as soon as possible and, where possible, the development of a personal identity code application procedure. The requirement for municipalities to receive imputed compensation is that an integration programme has been drawn up and that an agreement has been concluded with the Ely Centre on the assignment of the person who has received asylum and on the promotion of integration. Well, the Population Information System as such is not available for the municipalities that have concluded this agreement. Otherwise, the Population Information System may contain some information not so up-to-date, i.e. a little bit of information left behind, i.e. it may be that the municipality of residence is marked there for the person who has received the residence permit, but it may not be a municipality eligible for compensation in accordance with the Act on Integration. The committee stresses that this automation must be designed and implemented in a functional and technical way, so that the combined data collected from the various information systems are up-to-date, because they are the basis for payment and then the correct data, and then the municipalities will not be subject to the obligation to refund compensation for these independent reasons. The municipalities should be informed that the integration programme and the agreement with the Ely Centre are a prerequisite for receiving compensation. The proposed law has no impact on other compensations under Chapter 6 of the Act on Integration, such as specific social and health care expenditure, income support and interpreting costs. They should continue to be applied for from the KEHA Centre. Compensation shall be paid on the basis of actual costs. The committee took a position on the granting of municipal seats in the sense that there has been a shortage of municipal seats for years. Perhaps the backwardness of the level of imputed compensation has been one of the reasons why municipalities have not been very willing to enter into these agreements with ely centres. If, on the other hand, we consider that this agreement involves this particular promotion of integration and is an important instrument for integration training, the lack of labour market integration training in several localities has contributed to and has made it difficult to achieve these municipal investment agreements. The Committee stresses that integration training is a key instrument for integration. It has also been estimated that the need for integration training will increase significantly over the coming years, so there will continue to be a need for additional resource and system flexibility. This report by the Administrative Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u159	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Promotion of Integration so that imputed compensation for the organisation of activities supporting integration to the municipality can be paid automatically without a separate application to the Development and Administration Centre. In my opinion, the proposal is good and is well-founded in the Committee on Administrative Affairs and unanimously adopted. According to the Administrative Committee, automation of imputed compensation contributes to the objectives of digitalisation and reduces the administrative burden, especially in municipalities. This automation can simplify and speed up the compensation process and reduce manual work in municipalities. Even more importantly, it is estimated that automation will also offset billing peaks and increase the reliability and consistency of payments. This is particularly important in the municipalities and cities, where the exact era of the euro is taking place. Any unexpected payment may also be disastrous for crisis settlements. According to the committee, the challenges in the coverage of automation are also posed by the fact that not all asylum seekers and persons authorised by family reunification may have received a personal identity code when granting a residence permit. In this case, as Mr Mattila also said, people may be excluded from payment for a few months when the personal identity code is entered into the system only after a few months of receiving the municipality of residence. It would be excellent if, although it may take years at least in larger cities, the computational compensations could give up manually filling out applications. It would also be important to improve the coverage of automation, for example to improve information on registration and to guide the person to submit e.g. a removal notification as soon as possible and, where possible, to develop the procedure for applying for a personal identity code. You would think that getting a social security number for a person would be the most important thing in this regard, apart from getting asylum. As the committee also felt it was important to inform the municipalities that the integration programme and the agreement with the Ely Centre are a prerequisite for obtaining imputed compensation also in the automated compensation process. Even at the moment, there is a shortage of municipal seats. It is clear that if the Ely Centres and municipalities are not able to conclude sufficient integration agreements, the persons who have received a residence permit will remain waiting for reception centres, which will increase the cost of reception centres. It also has significant operational and financial implications for municipalities. It would also appear that many municipalities do not remember or understand what happens to the funding of asylum seekers when the fourth year comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u160	Mr President! The preparation of the work on change as the basis of the present law on integration has been launched in 2015, when a basis has been established for the automation system that the legislation now provides for. Hopefully, this will make it easier for municipalities to realise that, during the spring, more of these asylum seekers will now have their place of residence, so that at least those people for whom the personal registers are up-to-date and for whom the place of residence will always be changed according to the fact that people move, would be subject to automatic calculation costs, so that instead of the current four-time annual reimbursements on the basis of an application, the municipality will automatically receive these compensations. But, as has been said, there have been problems here and I am sure that it will still be that these demographic information systems and foreign systems will work together. Another problem has been the inability to provide people with a personal identity code. The third problem has been that not everyone knows how the Finnish system works, that registration is always done when changing so that the up-to-date address information is included. But, of course, it must be borne in mind that although — and I hope — this will greatly help municipalities, special subsidies such as special health care costs, child protection costs, interpretation costs still have to be applied for, as they are today, with the completion of the four-time-a-year form. This condition has also probably not been clear to all — since there has now been a significant increase in these localities in the autumn compared to the previous localities where reception centres and integration have been made — that there must be both an agreement with ely and a joint integration plan between the municipalities or municipalities. For that reason, the committee's report also states that we must pay attention to the agreements and programmes needed to inform the municipalities and, of course, also to the fact that they are up to date. I think that the committee has paid a great deal of attention, both here and in the budget report, and I believe that it was still in the process of examining the framework, the adequacy of these levels of compensation. Compensation levels have sometimes been decided in the 1990s and have not been returned to them, but have been index-based. The starting point for the calculation of the basic remuneration for persons under 7 years of age and over 7 years of age should be the level increase. That is what the committee agreed on. Then perhaps still as a question, when someone has just referred to this four years: I have not yet been able to find out why we have a different period of compensation for quota refugees and for asylum seekers who have been granted a residence permit. For others it is four years and for others it is three years. Supposedly, in that municipality they still live after three or four years, and the cost of the first year that may be on the reception centre’s side is the cost of the state, but on the municipal side they will be three years or four years. If someone can tell me at some point why this is so, I would be happy to hear that answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u161	Mr President! In some way, in response to Mr Paatero's question: I myself have wondered about it in the past, and there has not been a very clear answer to it. But it seems that some kind of reason for this has been that for those who have been at the reception center and then later receive the second, less time for that allowance, it has been claimed that it is because the person has already been at the reception centre for some time now that he has been integrated and learned and perhaps possibly acquired a hobby of language skills, and so on. That is why they would then only have three years when these quota refugees would have four years. That is not a sure answer, but I have heard that there is a suspicion. Mr President! Indeed, I would like to thank the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Pirkko Mattila, and the committee as a whole, for this good work. I very much welcome this committee's report. But one minus is still there, and I certainly hope that attention will be paid to this and that this bill will be updated accordingly or this problem will be corrected by another bill. Article 41 of the Act on the Promotion of Integration states that the municipality can conclude an agreement with the Ely Centre on the reception and integration of refugees. It is a multi-annual agreement and it is subject to annual review, and so far there is no doubt about this. However, what I find worrying is that Article 44 of the same law is still unchanged. It then states that the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the municipality is still subject to an agreement with the Ely Centre within the meaning of Article 41 of the Act. This committee's report rightly stresses that this will also continue in the automated compensation process. In addition, municipalities should be informed that the integration programme and the agreement with the Ely Centre are a prerequisite for obtaining imputed compensation also in the automated compensation process. So what does this mean in practice? I quote myself from the debate on the referral of this bill: "According to the law, compensation is still subject to an agreement with the Centre for Industry, Transport and the Environment. In practice, therefore, the municipality cannot abolish the reception of refugees, even if it wishes. If it terminates the contract, it will also lose compensation for those who have already arrived in the municipality but for whom the three or four years have not yet been completed. If that is indeed the case, then this is a rather unreasonable situation. These compensations received by municipalities should not be linked to the validity of the agreement, i.e. to the promise that there will be more and more refugees. When the municipality has agreed in good will on the reception of refugees, compensation should also be paid in full and as promised for refugees already present in the municipality, regardless of whether the municipality wishes to take more of these refugees in the future." Mr Kotka, the honourable representative who has just appeared in this House, said that if this is the case, we must go through the matter in committee. However, I do not think that this issue has been examined there in the committee. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a practical example. At the beginning of 2013, the city of Naantali considered its relationship with the reception of refugees. The alternative was to reduce or completely abolish the refugee quota. If Naantali had not had an existing agreement as of 1 April 2013, the Ely Centre would not have reimbursed the costs incurred by the municipality in 2010-2012 for the refugees who were resident after that date. And this wouldn't have been a April Fool, even though it was 1.4. This information can be found in the minutes of the city’s Social and Health Board. In Naantali, it was decided to limit the reception to between 1 and 5 persons because the contract was not rationally terminated. This gap must be remedied, since no agreement can be such that the existence of a continuation agreement determines the fate of compensation for previous contracts. Now, Mr President, I have said this in this debate and in that referral debate earlier. Now that I have twice underlined this issue here, I hope I have got it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u162	Mr President! When this report is being discussed, it is good to come here and talk about this larger picture, which the committee has also very much registered here. Indeed, this spring will be an urgent time for us to find all those who then receive a positive asylum decision and thus a residence permit, that municipality's place. As has already been pointed out in this debate, this is largely influenced by the level of these compensations and whether they will follow the increase in costs that will result from the services and the production of them in any case, and whether it will then be economically possible for the municipality — even if we know that the economic situation of the municipalities is weak. And that brings us to the claim that the Committee on Budgets, both in its opinion on the budget and then in this report, is very clear that we should try to raise these levels of compensation. There is also a fundamental link here, Mr Paatero, to which Mr Paatero pointed out that, when the municipal compensation for asylum seekers lasts for about three years and for quota refugees for four years, this also creates a certain incentive for municipalities to take, for example, quota refugees in the municipality, when they consider that compensation to be four years, and that, as we have already seen in some municipalities, then the situation of those who are already in reception centres has been given a positive decision and are waiting for that place, will then become even more difficult, and it would certainly make sense for this period of payment to really be harmonised — is it, then, for all to be paid for three years, or for all to be paid four years? This four years would certainly be supported by the fact that it would then actually have to support the municipalities which then grant these municipalities. The second big question is that, as we know, the big responsibility for integration lies with the large urban regions and, in particular, with the capital region. And, as already included in these MAL agreements with municipalities in the capital region, this promotion of integration would certainly make sense to extend this practice to other urban areas, thus facilitating the burden that this integration will entail for them. Similarly, with regard to integration, it would probably make sense to have a slightly broader debate on this subject in this Chamber and to think about how we really deal with all of this national challenge. If we want the people who come here, as well as the native population, to benefit from this immigration, it really requires that we do everything we can to ensure that integration is successful and that the new Finns also become the builders of the future of our own society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u163	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 6/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u164	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This government proposal contains a number of non-related proposals, including the need to supplement the implementation of the rights of participation and environmental noise directives and the need to implement some of the provisions of the EU Ship Recycling Regulation, all of which are quite welcome. But then there are purely national reasons for the proposal to extend the transitional period for small peat production areas of less than 10 hectares. This government proposal proposes that the transitional period for applying for a permit for all peat production areas of less than 10 hectares should indeed be extended to five years and that small peat production areas should be subject to authorisation during the last parliamentary term in order to regulate the environmental damage they cause, i.e. to improve the level of environmental protection. Medium-sized bogs of between 5 and 10 hectares already in use were granted a year to apply for a permit and for less than two years. In September 2015, this first transition period ended and it became apparent that not all peat entrepreneurs had submitted these environmental permit applications. It is important to remember that the authorisation of small peat was transferred because even large bogs used to block into small production areas in order to avoid an environmental permit. Mr President! The government's proposals on the Environmental Protection Act have consistently used one or two-year transitional periods in the event of a change in the scope of authorisation. This was also the case when the new Environmental Protection Act was adopted. If the deadline is extended only a few years after the adoption of the new Environmental Protection Act, it can easily happen that operators will continue to wait and the situation will be the same after a transitional period of five years. The experience of extending these transitional periods is also negative. For example, it has been learned from the waste water regulations in sparsely populated areas that additional time will easily lead to new additional time requirements and eventually even to proposals for watering down the entire legislation. In particular, when it comes to traders, it is unjustified to reward those who have failed to comply with the law and the records and the will of this Chamber for a long period of time. This issue has also been communicated very effectively, including through the Ministry and the Elys, so I dare say that ignorance of how action cannot be taken to ensure that these authorisation processes and issues are not handled. Furthermore, the preparation of a change in peat production areas has not followed a good way of drafting legislation. That is a purely political line. The proposal was not discussed in the working groups preparing the reform of the Environmental Protection Act. Furthermore, no opinions were requested and therefore the environmental impact of the proposal has not been assessed in favour of increasing this period. The right solution for non-compliance is not to grant longer periods of time, but to provide adequate information and control. At the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have tabled a joint objection by all opposition parties in the committee, which therefore includes one amendment to the article, and this amendment involves replacing this transitional period of five years by two years. We saw, as actors and influences of opposition parties, that this two-year extension must be sufficient to bring all peat producers into line with the law, and this five-year transition period is not required.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u165	Mr President! Representative In this speech, the trout raised these essential points. This bill is a kind of landfill class with changes to a number of laws. Most of them are justified, necessary, above all concerning the transposition of legislation on the right to participate in EU legislation into Finnish legislation and then the introduction of safe ship recycling, which is a very serious international environmental problem. However, disagreement in committee has been caused by this extension of the authorisation period for small peat-growing areas over an exceptionally long period of time. Mr Taimela has already said that when such transitional periods are normally granted in environmental matters, one or two years is a normal time. This was also stated by the committee in its report. In fact, the committee also approved this with its teeth. The committee also stated that 'the Committee requires the Ministry of the Environment to pay attention to the monitoring of potential high-risk sites in small peat production areas which are subject to an extension of the deadline'. This is a very unfortunate precedent for the fact that, once the deadline has already expired for these 5 to 10 hectares of peat production areas, it is actually being extended by five years afterwards. And the basic idea behind the protest signed by the opposition groups in this committee is that normal practice should be followed here too. So we understand that there are small players who have not noticed this new law in time, as provided for in the last Parliament, but would be satisfied
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u166	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 7/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u167	Mr President! I have already spoken on this subject during the referral to this law. In committee, the Left Alliance, the Democrats and the Greens have signed up to the protest that Parliament will adopt a statement at second reading obliging the Government to prepare a regulation defining the criteria for the quality of water monitoring surveys and the standards of competence of operators. After all, the Government's proposal deletes the previous procedure whereby water quality measurements are required to be approved by the Finnish Environment Agency in practice for the measurement of the activities related to the activity subject to authorisation, i.e. with emission limits in accordance with the environmental permit. The government proposes that this procedure be abolished. This is one of the things that is justified by the dismantling of red tape, but I would now like to say to Parliament's Minutes that, if, now that a diverse number of actors are carrying out these studies and the municipalities and businesses are being competitive and there are no clear rules on who are really qualified to carry out these measurements, then there will be measurements by incompetent operators which will then be used to assess whether the various operators who need an environmental permit comply with the permit conditions, and then there will be an incorrect measurement, and then the consequences will be felt, for example, in the health of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u168	Mr President! Indeed, the Government is proposing that the Environmental Protection Act be amended so that the national authorisation procedure for water quality monitoring studies will be abandoned. Under the current law, as Mr Hassi has said here, only an operator approved by the Finnish Environment Agency, which fulfils certain conditions, such as technology, quality system and staff qualifications, can carry out water quality monitoring related to authorised activities under the Environmental Protection Act. In my opinion, these are not petty matters, but extremely important things that must be in someone's hands. If this proposal is implemented, the assessment of the competence of the company responsible for the monitoring of obligations will be the sole responsibility of the undertaking carrying out the activity requiring an environmental permit, and it is important to remember internationally that this model is quite exceptional because the authorities generally manage the monitoring. During this parliamentary term, many government bill proposals have been justified in this Chamber by the abolition of standards. I am very much in favour of lowering standards, that is acceptable. I am sure that everyone in this Parliament is thinking this way, but, for example, in this point, the dismantling of standards must certainly not be done at the expense of the environment. In my own way, I fear that this is happening because, in the worst case scenario, the poor quality of the measurements required by the environmental permit can lead to environmental pollution and to operators that are polluting the environment beyond the permit conditions being allowed to continue to operate even after these complaints. For that reason, among other reasons, we in the committee considered it important from the opposition to ensure the quality of water quality monitoring studies and the validity of the factors involved. This can be done by means of a regulation setting out the quality requirements for measurements and the qualifications of the operators performing the measurements, and this statement of objection, which is marked in this objection, refers to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u169	Mr President! To what Mr Taimela and ourselves have already said, I would just like to add that, when, for example, these measurements are being competitive in municipalities and very many municipalities think that it is necessary to choose the cheapest one, it would also make it easier to compete for these measurements both in municipalities and in companies with these environmental permits which contain emission limits in water.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u170	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented for part, in part, for the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 4/2016 vp, it is decided on the basis of a single reading of the Treaty and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-05-ps-32.u171	The 21st item will be presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 7 April 2016. The Council of Presidents proposes that the single reading of the draft amending budget should follow the following procedure: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 2 p.m. on Wednesday 6 April 2016 at the latest. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. In a detailed debate, all amendments will be tabled and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments to the amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
