ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would remind you that the maximum length of questions and answers is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u2	First question, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u3	Mr President! Big decisions have been made in the government over the last few weeks. These seem to have one thing in common, and that is that the government is broadly in the process of insuring public activities. Public services for all in joint decision-making are being transferred to the market. On Monday, the Minister of Transport's presentation was heard to put roads, rail networks and waterways in a limited company. Mobility on Finnish roads and waterways is intended to be converted into a charge. Many citizens ask where they are taking Finland. I noticed that Terho, Group Chairman of the Finns Party, said that the government does not have a power of attorney in the elections to change your mobility to a charge. Prime Minister, what is going on in the government? Is it the estimate of the Finns that the government does not have a proxy for the incorporation program, do you think that this is justified?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u4	Mr President! I think this whole corporate thing has been turned into a useless boogeyman. This is a long way from privatisation when it comes to looking for different new structures, which will also increase transparency. The fact that, first of all, we are looking for investment in transport, for large investments in infrastructure, for completely new models is, for example, an attempt which we are very much in favour of, on a clean table. This is a report, a public debate, an open one, whether we can find ways of boosting public investment. As far as this traffic cycle is concerned, we also decided that when it comes to a huge reform, we will first have a public debate on it: we will ask for feedback and then we will outline the government's proposal also taking this perspective into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u6	Mr President! Prime Minister, I do not think you have answered my question. Mr Terhohan said that matters of such size should have a power of attorney in elections to make such huge changes: that travel on Finnish roads and waterways will be made subject to a fee. After all, common tax resources will no longer be used to build transport routes serving the country as a whole, but money will be in the picture. Of course, this will also have a huge impact on the equality of people, not least regional policy, but also on the ability to pay. What does this market programme of yours mean for Northern and Eastern Finland, sparsely populated regions? I would like to ask you once again why you did not say anything about this huge wave of incorporation in the elections. Isn't it a little unfair after the election to include this in the program?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u7	Mr President! This is not true. My party’s program, for example, had the idea of Infra Oy, and there was also public debate in this Chamber — or in that old hall — on several occasions. We made presentations that through Infra Oy we could get public funding speeded up. How, then, is it financed? This is precisely the issue we want to have an open debate on. We can also find new transport opportunities through digitalisation, digital services, through which these investments can be financed. We also have natural models, for example, to finance bridge connections to replace existing ferry connections, which can be paid for by the life cycle of the future and the costs that society would have had in any case. This debate should now be conducted very openly, in a spirit of reform, without fear and without these words, which are constantly plentiful here: the threat, the risk and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u8	Mr President! I think I was sitting in those election debates with you myself, and I do not remember the kind of debates that talked about a market-driven society rather than a welfare state, which you are now building with your own actions. In today's interview with Hesar, you said that knives are raining from there and here. I would like to say here at least that the Social Democrats offer alternatives to this debate. We offer such an option in which equality of citizens takes place in Finnish society. Now our fear of this big change in society by the government without mandate is that the wallet will come here again to decide who can buy services, who has no money for it. You are building a society in which inequality is increasing, where common equal treatment between people is not being achieved. What do you say to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u9	Mr President! That is not true at the moment that Infra Oy was not in the city centre election program. I bet it's been there. We have kept it constantly on the table, and now the whole thing is being clarified. As far as this market drive is concerned, I do not see any problem here if we have 100 % of state-owned companies that then carry out business and are able to use the financial instruments that are available on the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u10	Madam President! What you have been saying here in one year: you first said that you companies the forests and nature owned by Finnish taxpayers, then health services,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u11	Mr President! Forests, waters and nature have been incorporated with you. There are no forests, no waters, and no calls have been transferred to the ownership of the company under the Metsähallitus Act. I think this kind of intimidation and spreading false information As far as Infra Oy and its credentials are concerned, there is a joint agreement in the spending limits debate that this is such a big deal that we will not take a position on this as a government, but we will work it out carefully, and that is how we will do it. There is also a record of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u12	Mr President! In his last reply, the Prime Minister was right at the beginning. It is true that the Metsähallitus Act, which, in our opinion, has already weakened nature conservation in a way that is quite unreasonable, maintained the ownership of land and water areas and the company does not own them. But here you are proposing, your Minister of Transport Berner is proposing that this entire state's fairway property be incorporated, and this shows how exceptional this is in Finnish history. So the fact that the activities that are under democratic control — how our networks work, what we invest in — are democratic choices — you would be transferring everything to a company that operates on a commercial basis, a massive project, there are huge risks, and it would discriminate against the development of transport. We Greens are in favour of modernising transport policy, of considering changing the focus of taxation and charges, of introducing digitalisation, of liberalising competition where the state already controls these networks, but we do not accept the idea of:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u13	Mr President! It is good that you corrected this misinformation that forest property has been incorporated. This has certainly not been done. As far as this second part of the question is concerned, we have indeed decided to find new ways of finding a boost for public investment, for infrastructure. We've had over 2 billion reparations over the years. We are currently unable to invest enough in our public infrastructure. I think in this debate that we are now openly looking for new ways to find funding and speed up these investments, which are absolutely a prerequisite for us to keep the whole country occupied, to support those bio-projects, bio-factory projects, what we have all over the country and so on, is a matter of careful investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u14	Mr President! Even now, drivers are costing about 8 billion and mainly kilometer-based, i.e. the price of gas, and this, if anything, also weighs on the people of the countryside. Our problem with the infrastructure is that the ability to invest is non-existent. During my first government, almost EUR 3 billion was invested in the surplus period, EUR 2.1 billion in the second government, EUR 1.9 billion in the Katainen government and only 700 million in this period, and I predict that in the next parliamentary term, due to deficit restrictions, only a few hundred million were invested. Is it not the aim of this whole study that we should be able to multiply our investments? Secondly, is it not the case that the starting point for the whole planning process is that even if it is a company-based activity, investment decisions must be made at political level?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u15	Mr President! That is precisely the case, because it is a question of getting back to the level of at least 2 billion investments, which I believe is the minimum level at which we can keep the Finnish infrastructure competitive, and it is also a prerequisite for job creation. These decisions, whatever the model, are, of course, behind political decisions. These decisions are not passed on to market forces; they are made in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u16	Madam President! The Prime Minister pointed out that this reform was needed in order to keep the whole country occupied. I myself am concerned about the fact that, today, the transport routes are being paid by the tax banks and come through progressive taxation, which means that the high incomes are paying more than the low incomes, and also now that, as this proposal has been proposed, this would be subject to different charges, they would be equal to everyone, and especially in that rural area, in Eastern and Northern Finland, it will be difficult to find an alternative to their own car, which would give these people greater responsibility. I will also ask about these payments. My question is: what is the basis for the idea that a limited company should be more transparent and more monitored than budgetary funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u17	Mr President! Yes, these are equal payments at the moment. Yes, for fuel, we all pay the same amount of tax, every single one, regardless of the vehicle we drive. And here transport costs far more than we can currently use to develop the transport infrastructure. That is what this is all about. With regard to reducing the debt to repair areas in sparsely populated areas, even in this tight economic situation, this government has been able to find EUR 600 million for us to put the road infrastructure in place in sparsely populated areas and to replace about one-quarter of this repair debt with these projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u18	Mr President! Indeed, this week there has been some misunderstandings in the public debate on this potential, potential, incorporatement of roads. Indeed, the government parties have unanimously committed themselves to clarifying this matter and to forming some kind of theoretical model of it, which will then consider these different options. And it is quite true that, for example, my position is that this is a very wide-ranging issue which, for example, the Finns of Finland did not take a position on in their electoral programme, and I believe that this should be negotiated through the elections into the Government Programme. This is my personal position. But let us not exaggerate or intimidate decisions that have not been made. It is quite clear that the use of roads in Finland is a fundamental right that everyone should be able to afford, and this will continue to be the case in the future. I would like to stress again: do not be intimidated by decisions that have not been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u21	Mr President! As has been emphasised several times and Mr Berner has certainly said many times in his presentation, we have decided to clarify this matter carefully. I think this is something that should be clarified. There has been so much talk of these in different elections. Infra Oy has also had two parliamentary term programmes in the city centre. Let us now examine carefully whether there are conditions for this or whether there are no conditions for it. There have been performances at Remont Oy and so on. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u22	Madam President! In the first instance, the social and health services we all share are going to be incorporated, brutally placed on the market to protect children, care and care for the elderly, basic health care, and as the next step in the same spending limits debate, you have also decided to go out and find out, and the Minister clearly recommends that we set up our roads, our tracks. Corporateization is a leap towards privatisation, it's obvious. You justify this kind of Italian trickery, where the debt is hidden. Yes, these same construction projects can be carried out within the budget. Now you're kind of putting that money away, even though the government gets a loan cheaper than companies. Long-term planning is needed, that's where you're right. Modernization is needed, that's where you're right. But a company solution: it is pure ideological, and it is not needed. My question is, Prime Minister Vanhanen... — Cinnamon
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u23	Perhaps Prime Minister Vanhanen can answer, Mr President, but I will continue, obviously the question was intended for me. For me, Santeri Alkio is a passionate reformer of society, and I think that this debate shows how far this Chamber is from apathy when it comes to reform. Fear guides the conversation. That's all I've heard here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u24	Madam President! I will tell you what happened in the last section, that is during the last parliamentary term, when we set up a parliamentary corrective debt working party, and that is where the mandate for this activity comes from. That working group drew attention to three points: the EUR 2.5 billion correction debt, the need to strive for long-term transport infrastructure planning, the extension of the parliamentary term, and the introduction of new financing models for Parliament to consider, which guarantees the financing of the infrastructure network. This is the work that the government is now doing, i.e. seeking long-term planning, a new financing model, and this was a parliamentary working party whose work was unanimously signed by all the parliamentary parties during the last term. I ask Prime Minister Sipilä: how do you assess whether this current annual budgeting or four-year spending limits budget will be able to meet this 2.5 billion correction debt challenge?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u25	Mr President! At present, public finances are unable to carry such a large investment programme on the budget economy. That is why we should have a calm debate on the basis of studies as to whether new instruments, new elements can be found to ensure that the Finnish infrastructure remains competitive and thus Finnish work, Finnish jobs, and that the whole country can be preserved as inhabited. Yes, it is sad to see the condition of the Finnish roads now and how the repair debt is reflected in those provinces, especially when it comes to the time of decay and so on. We need to make a big change here, and the big change in general requires a little extraordinary thinking, a whole new kind of reformism, and that is what I call on this group to think together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u26	Mr President! Prime Minister, you have just said that you are seeking the effectiveness of the incorporation of companies specifically for public investment. This seems to be the same in your idea of social and health services, because the guidelines there too are similar. I went to a maternity clinic myself on Monday in my hometown. I got this amazing service. I'm a more satisfied service user, as I'm sure everyone is. I do not quite understand the idea that, for example, the incorporation of maternity clinics would have some added value for the users of services — in this system, which is world famous and of which we are well-known. For example, what added value does companying have for child health clinics? And now I ask the Prime Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u27	Mr President! You are quite right that the Finnish child health clinic system is absolutely the world's top, as is many parts of the Finnish health care system, the world's top. Whether it reads on the nurse’s payroll as an employer, as an employer to a joint municipal authority, or now, in the future, a company owned by the province or a cooperative owned by the province, does not mean that we are still able to use these best aspects of our system. After all, we are not fools and are destroying the best parts of the Finnish healthcare system. That's not what this is about. This is about separating production and organisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u28	Mr. Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u29	Mr President! A lot of cake on top is beautiful, and you're gonna paint the great results for this one of your companies. It's one of those hocus-pocus tricks that you do, that when money and action are transferred here, from the state, to the limited company, there's gonna be more money there. Where would that extra money come from? It's in user fees, isn't it? User fees! So you are charging ordinary citizens a fee for using the ordinary road throughout the country, and the limited company is going to impose this pricing, and then Parliament is allowed to stand by and express pious hopes for what should be done there. The opposition is not entirely alone in this criticism — I read the statement of the former Secretary-General of the Ministry of Transport: 'The decisions on road and rail investment in the country of its government must be democratically political decisions and cannot be delegated to a state company'. Do you have to tell Parliament where this extra money comes from, which ordinary Finns would not have to pay as user charges?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u30	Mr President! These will continue to be political decisions from now on, as has been said many times, Where, then, does the income come from? Let me give you an example of that near my own municipality: the bridge of Hailuoto. At the moment, there is a ferry with a cost of EUR x million. Then the ferry should be replaced, and the bridge costs about EUR 60 million. We will be able to build a bridge to it during the twelve-year repayment period, taking into account that we will then be able to miss out on these costs and we will not have the investment costs. This is one practical example of:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u31	Next question, Congressman Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u32	Mr President! The Government is targeting a huge EUR 190 million saving in vocational education and training from next year. This means that educational institutions will have to look for 10% savings in their activities. Educational institutions have made efficiency and rationalisation even before these new savings requirements have been met, in that respect the means have largely been used. In practice, these new savings will have to be sought by reducing education, reducing the network of vocational institutions and reducing the number of places to start. In many areas today, there is not enough training for all young people and many 15 to 16-year-olds have to leave their homes unwittingly for training. So I ask the Minister for Education: how much does the government estimate that starting places will continue to decrease, and how does the government estimate that the decrease in starting places will affect the fact that all young people who leave comprehensive school will find a place for further training?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u33	I would now ask the representatives to avoid this other debate, so that we can hear the questions and hear the answers. And now it is Minister Grahn-Laasonen's turn to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u34	Mr President! The government is very committed to this and will insist that every young person who has completed their comprehensive school will have a place of education at a different level — and we will insist on this — as well as help with problems that prevent schooling, so that the way to those studies can be smoothed out as quickly as possible. The previous government prepared major cuts in vocational education, 260 million if I remember the amount correctly, and this proposal fell and then became a legacy for the next government. In order to achieve the savings of EUR 190 million in vocational education and training, we have decided to build a structural reform, the so-called vocational education reform, which will reform the whole of vocational education and training: its legislation, its funding, its qualifications, its policies and the structure of the organiser on the basis of voluntary mergers. This has received a very enthusiastic reception, it is this structural reform and the reform of working practices — more learning in the workplace, knowledge-based, student-oriented — in this reform, and we are doing it with motivation in conjunction with the field of vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u35	I would ask those Members who wish to put a supplementary question on this subject to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u36	Mr President! The government is in the process of reforming, but the savings will be introduced even before this reform is completed, so educational institutions will have to find savings in their current activities in accordance with current legislation. In practice, this certainly means that local education is still being significantly reduced, as even now, learning many practical skills threatens to be at a low level when there is not enough practice in teaching — welding when it is difficult to learn from video. Self-employed and talented students will be fine, but slightly weaker students will not achieve a vocational qualification with these methods. How does the government intend to ensure that the quality of education is not undermined and that young people are adequately trained during education?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u37	Mr President! In the reform of vocational education and training, it is the individual paths to build vocational education and training based on the needs of the student. Not everyone of us necessarily learns by sitting on the school bench, as in the traditional form of school, but many of our young people learn much better by doing things, for example. And that is why this reform increases learning in the workplace, i.e. in practice, but it also ensures that sufficient general capacity is achieved in order to be able to cope in life even when the change is inevitable and jobs are lost and new ones are created and so on. It is at the heart of this professional reform. Last week, a report and a presentation of a new model of training agreements was published by the surveyors, which will bring elements of this learning in the workplace to vocational education and training. All in all, I think that this reform will lead to a great deal of progress in vocational education and training, and it will also sense the atmosphere surrounding this reform, despite these tough realities in the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u38	Madam President! The noble and absolutely right aim of the government is to secure a place of education for every young person who completes his or her comprehensive school. However, there is a big difference between where that training place is located. I would like to see a realistic assessment of the impact on the education network of such reforms and major cuts in the planning of vocational training. A young person's point of view should also be taken into account, perhaps even for families when talking about people between the ages of 15 and 16. However, I would like to ask the ministers whether you have assessed the regional economic impact of these cuts in vocational training. It also matters to regional economies, where there are educational places, where young people are studying and professionals will be working in the future, starting business.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u39	Mr President! It is at the very heart of this reform that it is very important, in my opinion, for vocational training to be attractive and accessible at second level, to involve the industry and the working life of the regions in good cooperation with the providers of education. And that is exactly what we are thinking about in the preparation of this reform. At the same time, we will also be able to develop the organisational structure on a voluntary basis. I'll give you a good example of my own hometown, Forssa. There were previously two vocational training providers: FAI, who organised training for young people, and Faktia, who organised training for adults. And these two were merged within the same city. A new vocational training programme was created with more opportunities: common equipment stocks, common facilities, savings on space costs and these equipment. Young people and adults study together in part, which has also had a positive impact on the learning community and many other good effects. In other words, these new models should be treated with a degree of prejudice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u40	Mr President! Indeed, the timetable envisaged by the government runs the risk that the measures will only lead to adaptation without accumulation and development of teaching and activities. Another major problem related to this whole, a very complex entity, is the restrictions on the disposal of real estate. When the operation decreases, it does not take so much real estate mass, but real estate cannot be handed over. What is the government going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u41	Mr President! There have been problems with the restrictions on the disposal of properties. And they have now been resolved by the Ministry of Education and Culture, so that the providers of education can be more flexible in getting rid of the extra real estate that costs a lot of money, and the resulting savings can then be more focused on the needs of education. And I think it is important to focus on the quality and pedagogy of teaching and to ensure those individual-oriented paths and tailor-made paths for each student. Example, for example: Often there is a overlap in adult education that requires learning the same things that have already been learned, for example, in working life or past educational paths. So it would make sense to identify much better this previously acquired knowledge and instead teach the things the student does not yet master. And this, for example, is the building of individual paths at its best.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u42	Madam President! Minister! Reforms are good things, and they should be supported — even in previous government periods, good reforms have already been made on the professional side. But it is wrong in itself to say that reform is being done on top of the cuts and at risk. At the moment the cuts will be made first and then brought in these famous reforms of yours, next year we will be making huge savings. There are a number of reforms that are already coming on a very fast schedule, and we now need more time to move on to these institutions and, above all, to work peace. Does the government even have some kind of overall guidance on which way to go? And you said just now that there will be no changes or difficulties in contact teaching. Do you think that by reducing local education, skills will be maintained in the same way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u43	Mr President! The previous government has expressly failed to carry out the structural reform, which is why we are in this situation. On the other hand, I must say that, when I have taken this preparation forward, I am even glad that the so-called structural reform of the previous government, which did not contain elements of structural reform, fell in the last week in Parliament, because now we can make a genuinely better model with all the elements of vocational education and training reformed. It is also visible from these field reactions:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u44	Next question, Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u45	Mr President! Unfortunately, this government will not remain in history as a promoter of equality, on the contrary. The government's hard austerity measures on early childhood education, education and the livelihoods of citizens and working life will certainly undermine equality and increase inequality among citizens. Now, the government's proposal to increase day care fees particularly strikes middle-income families, and there is a risk that they will even become an obstacle to working. Mr President! As the Minister for Gender Equality was not present in yesterday's plenary debate, I would now like to ask Minister Rehula how the increase in childcare fees will contribute to the government's objective of raising the employment rate. Or is this not a goal for women? Secondly, I would like to ask why the proposal has not been subject to a proper assessment of the impact of children and gender.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u46	Madam President! Yes, the objective of equality applies to women, both at home and working women. Secondly, with regard to early childhood care fees, this is the drafting of legislation, which has now brought the law into Parliament with the information that has been possible at this stage in the drafting of the law. That work will now continue with regard to Parliament. Let's do as good a job as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u47	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u48	Mr President! Many municipalities have not introduced government weaknesses in early childhood education. It is great that many municipalities have decided to retain subjective day care rights and have not started to increase group sizes. It is also possible that some municipalities will not increase the customer fees for day care unless the government forces municipalities to increase them. However, we are in a situation where families do not receive equal early childhood education services across the country and inequality is growing. Good Minister for the Family Rehula: How do you intend to address the fact that all families receive good, accessible and affordable early childhood education services across the country? So how do you guarantee the equality of families throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u49	Minister Grahn-Laasonen is responsible for early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u50	Mr President! This was a very wide-ranging question about early childhood education. Finnish early childhood education is of very high quality and its pedagogy is constantly being developed. We offer early childhood education for at least 20 hours for each child. These early childhood education contributions, involving an increase of EUR 54 million, were discussed here. This objective is in the Government Programme. But I would like to ask: when this reform included increases in payments, but it has taken account of social justice, in that, firstly, the payments for the lowest-income families will continue to be EUR zero, i.e. no payments at all, and then the payments for single parents and small families will even be reduced, so that this reform will make it more profitable for single parents to accept work, and do you oppose this reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u51	Minister Ruhula is now completing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u52	Madam President! The previous issue, or earlier today here in Question Time, was the subject of a debate on what the content of services is affected by the incorporation of companies. This is the same aspect of Mr Hänninen's question that should not be forgotten. We will continue to have the Child Welfare Act. We will continue to have the old-age service law. We will continue to have the early childhood education legislation under the responsibility of Minister Grahn-Laasonen. It's not going anywhere. On the other hand, the responsibility for organising services rests with the municipality: to implement the legislation which has an obligation and, in principle, not only an obligation, but also the need for implementation to ensure equality throughout the country. We are in a situation where, for example, the municipal unit has proved to be too small a bearer of responsibility from the point of view of equality in relation to social services. But let us not forget in this debate that there is a change in the way things are done, but there is no change in the content legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u53	Mr President! We, in the Left Alliance, are very much in favour of a reduction in the costs of day care for low-income single parents, but at the same time we are also perplexed by the fact that you are seeking savings of more than EUR 50 million by increasing the costs of day care. This applies specifically to low-income local nurses, nurses, nannies who are already being cut and saved a lot. All these cuts are directed at low-paid women. Minister, how will income differentials increase with these decisions? What about the pay gap between men and women? Where's the equality program? There are a number of questions that can be asked when travelling in this sector in relation to day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u54	Madam President! With regard to the gender equality programme, there is a situation in which this information will be made public tomorrow as regards the equal pay programme. It will be an integral part of the debate on equality in working life, the list of concrete measures aimed at narrowing the gap between women and men in the euro, which is currently just under 17 cents. The social partners are strongly committed to the existence of the equal pay programme, and indeed, it will be published tomorrow. For the whole gender equality programme, lime lines are starting to exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u55	Madam President! Strengthening the well-being of children and families is one of the objectives of the Government Programme, and the hopes of families with children rose high when the government was properly appointed as the Minister for the Family. Unfortunately, however, the government's family policy has now been seen as a variety of weakenings of family support and services. We need positive messages now, because the birth rate has already fallen to the level of years of hunger. If we want to correct the age structure of the population and the sustainability gap, we would also need those positive messages for families. I give you now, Mr Rehula, the opportunity: what positive, concrete promises do you make to families with children, what positive family reforms are you doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u56	Madam President! This spiral of fear and pessimism, which has also been on the move in this Chamber today: the news and messages about what changes are being made to the better will not be reached. Good news is not news. We have one of the 26 key government projects to change child and family services, and expectations are very high: to change the way things are done, to change the many good practices spoken about, to give families with children, for example, more home services, to change the way they operate so that so-called good practices in preventive services can spread throughout the country. With regard to cooperation between school and home, Mr Grahn-Laasonen will certainly be able — and I know he will — to give his own message. We have a number of very practical measures to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u58	Mr President! I am concerned about the development of both women and the general employment rate in Finland. Tomorrow there will be a gender equality programme, as Mr Rehula has said, specifically on equal pay, and I have great expectations of that. It's been negotiated in the triangular. Let us hope that we can make real progress on the basis of what we will hear tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u59	Madam President! Indeed, the government can be criticized for the fact that one hand does not know what the other does. We all know that Finland has a low employment rate and that women's livelihood is lower than men's income if wage accumulations are considered. Yet every week you make a policy that reduces women's opportunities to participate in the labour market. In that regard, Mrs Filatov made a good point about how the increase in the fees for day care specifically reduces women's participation in the labour market. Similarly, what you are doing, for example in the area of informal care, will have the effect of reducing the conditions for women to work, thus saying experts. This will probably be discussed further in this Chamber on various occasions. However, I would like to ask whether you are making any assessments in the government as to how your decisions will affect in practice women's access to the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u60	Madam President! These questions are also informative in the direction of the Minister. This was news to me that the development of informal care, the development of family care and the introduction of a clear new level of care, the few issues in which the government makes a significant contribution to the additional euro, are somehow negative from the point of view of equality. Secondly, Mr President, these government decisions insofar as they contain gender issues: you, who have been members of the government, know that externally glued equality does not come about, but must be involved in the preparation and so-called gender mainstreaming is the tool that we try to remind the various ministries that the gender perspective is involved in the preparation of the various laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u61	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u62	Mr President, värderade fru talman! I svenska folkpartiet har vi länge talat om att vi behöver fler
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u63	Mr President! On the basis of this budgetary plan, there is a forecast for 2019 that will lead to 69.4% of the employment rate. Our goal is 72, which means that there is enough to reach out to. The social contract has been estimated to be about one percentage point more than that difference. A little more than 70 will be achieved through these measures, which are inside it, and then through a social pact. In addition, we published the entrepreneurship and employment package, which will cover some of the remaining half a percentage point. In addition, we are preparing for further action by the spending limits panel to try to find further ways to fill that 72 percent. The budgetary plan, i.e. the end of debt in 2021, is based on the current forecast. If we can lift
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u64	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u65	Mr President! We also know that poor well-being at work costs huge amounts to our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u66	Mr President! This work-life and well-being at work is a very important and important issue, and that is why the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now carrying out a number of different projects to develop and promote this well-being and well-being at work. Today I have been to open one of these projects, and I believe that through these effective practices and modelling, we have a huge chance that people will actually be able to survive and survive there longer in working life. It is not enough for us to achieve these good goals, even if we are going to extend the retirement age, but we really must have the concrete measures that will enable people to experience that sense in working life and to reduce their sick absences and get such a comprehensive approach to the matter. But it requires that we all commit ourselves to this, including entrepreneurs and different types of organisations,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u67	Fru talman, Madam Speaker! It is very good that the government is trying to tackle this, and this is a very big challenge. This social pact is given considerable importance. What is worrying, however, is that now that, in addition to this social agreement, you are making public various kinds of reforms which I think are all right, then, at the same time, certain players in the labour market are announcing that they will not happen if the social pact fails. I think this is a rather challenging whole. It would be interesting to hear how the Prime Minister sees this equation, but I am afraid it is possible that this important agreement will be either watered down or, in the worst case, will fall. Does the government then have a plan B because it has been calculated to be of considerable importance? The second question, which is very central and which relates to this week's news, is the employment agency and how it can be reformed. Last week I tried to ask the Minister for Employment, but I did not get a clear answer as to whether the reform of employment services and employment services could be one of the issues that is now being prepared for the August budget debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u68	Mr President! It is true that this social pact is of great importance here as a whole. It is about one quarter of the measures needed to raise the employment rate to 72%. It is now important that all parties are determined to bring it to the same goal all the time, and we are calm and unprovoked by these various messages and situations. However, the government must do many things at the same time, and one of them is this in relation to employment. We are involved in the development of employment mediation in key projects. We're also looking for experiments there. For example, we have had a private placement experiment with this kind of performance bonus model. This too is now to be tried out or tested.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u69	Mr President! Let me add a little more to the Prime Minister's answer when Mr Lindström, the Minister of Labour, is missing here. In the context of this regional reform, we have stated that, at the beginning of 2019, the responsibility for the organisation of the services will be transferred to the provinces, but that it can be produced in practice, also by municipalities, cities, including the private sector and organisations. Then there has also been a great deal of hope here in the Chamber that we should quickly launch various municipal experiments on this issue, and that is going forward. I know that this week, together with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Prime Minister's Office, a pilot project of this kind has started in preparation for the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Prime Minister's Office, so that we can get trials already in 17 and 18 at the regional level as well as in cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u70	We have time to take one more question. Congressman Elovaara.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u71	Mr President! 65% 8th and 9th. -graders feel that teachers do not interfere enough with bullying, i.e. 65%. This is an unforgivable number. The experience of the bullied is deep and traumatic. The bully loses his dignity and trust in fellow humans. Today, almost without exception, in serious bullying situations where the only effective solution seen to be the transfer of a student to another school has been the victim. This practice does not solve the problem of bullying and sends the wrong signal about how to respond to bullying. So I ask the Minister for Education: how does the government view this problem? Should the bully continue to change schools, or can we give teachers new tools to tackle bullying and stop it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u72	Mr President! School bullying is a very painful problem and can leave life - long scars and marks on a person. That is why we adults have a special responsibility to tackle all bullying, whether in the school environment or anywhere. We need to work together to tackle the problems at the bottom. There are many different ways of intervention. I am open to all suggestions that reduce school bullying, with the aim that no child or young person should have to experience school bullying. We will go through the existing means, the existing legislation, and we will be open to new proposals and we will make proposals in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u73	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals will now be decided and a general debate will take place. — — — — Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u74	Mr President! Is this the intention for the chairman of the committee to make a presentation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u75	That's right. Knowledge had not reached me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u76	Madam President! This government proposal concerns amendments to Chapter 10 on the consequences of the loss of criminal law. The proposed amendments implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime. In addition, this government proposal is in some respects broader than this directive. And these changes extend the possibility of confiscating property from a crime to the State. This is a great thing, for example, in the fight against and investigation of serious financial crime. Finnish legislation largely meets the requirements of the Directive. However, some of the provisions of the Directive require amendments to national legislation. This is particularly the case with regard to the loss of extended benefit and the loss of a third party. The Legal Affairs Committee considers it justified and necessary that Finnish legislation be amended to meet the requirements of the Directive within the meaning of the proposal. The proposal also proposes to amend the legislation in some respects, except as required by the directive. In principle, the most important reform of the proposal is the so-called translated burden of proof in the first draft law for the extended loss of benefit and is contained in Article 9(4) of Chapter 10 of the Penal Code. This is a very important reform of our judicial system. With regard to procedural provisions, it is proposed, for the sake of clarity, that the author of the claim for revocation should rely on the grounds on which his claim for revocation is based. So he also has the burden of proof on these matters. However, an exception is that the defendant has a burden of proof as to the legal origin of the property where the claim concerns an extended loss of benefit within the meaning of Article 3 of Chapter 10. This is an important reform. The proposal on the reverse burden of proof is based, among other things, on a statement adopted by Parliament which requires the Government to determine the usefulness of the reversed burden of proof in order to ensure that the proceeds of the crime are removed. In addition, in the programme of Prime Minister Katainen and the Stubb government, the fight against the shadow economy was one of the government's top projects. According to the government, it also included an obligation to investigate and prepare the reverse burden of proof applicable to the recovery of the proceeds of crime. And this is what has been done. Now on the legislation of the present time, the Constitutional Committee at the time and also the Committee on Legal Affairs in 2001 stated that it was unacceptable — when this translated burden of proof was presented. At that point, this was considered impossible, but in 2001 the Committee on Legal Affairs concluded that the prosecution's duty of proof of the origin of the property has not been set as high as that required by the evidence required to be convicted. And the threshold required of the prosecution is that the property should be presumed to originate from criminal activity. Thus, instead of the reversed burden of proof, the burden of proof has been reduced, which was then a major reform. But now, in this government proposal, it is proposed that the defendant bears the burden of proof as to the legal origin of the property, insofar as the claim relates specifically to this loss of extended benefit. And now, in its opinion this year, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that this translated burden of proof is possible under certain conditions. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out that there are strong arguments behind the general principles of criminal law in support of the fact that the condemnation of the loss of the proceeds of crime should continue to comply with the normal rules on the burden of proof in relation to the burden of proof. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has dealt with the matter extensively here and, having considered the points raised, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers, for the reasons set out in the detailed explanatory memorandum, that the provision proposed in the proposal for a reversal of the burden of proof in the event of an enlarged loss of benefit as regards the origin of the property is fully justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u79	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, went through this proposal quite extensively, including the reasons and details. After all, it is mainly that directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime in the European Union, its enforcement in Finland, but the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also took a broader view of the burden of proof which has been translated and which, in the past, was of course of interest to me in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. After all, we have an old statement that 'not guilty until proven guilty', and this, of course, is also true after this reform. In other words, this is not the case, but, as pointed out above, in certain circumstances the obligation to present or prove the origin of any property obtained through a criminal offence would have been found guilty or convicted. So the guilt must first be established, and then the translated burden of proof would apply only to this property in accordance with certain limits. The State Prosecutor Ritva Sawavirta has gone through this extensively and found that the burden of proof in criminal matters lies with the claimant, namely the prosecutor or the plaintiff, and in criminal proceedings the applicant must prove the facts on which his claim is based. He also notes that the burden of proof for the prosecutor is without exception in criminal procedure law and that a false conviction is far more damaging in general terms than a false liberating judgment. He goes over the issue of the reversed burden of proof and tells us how this issue has been raised already in the 70s — when Mr Zyskowicz came into this house — and then in the 80s. I do not know whether it was also in the 1990s, but now in the 2010s it is again in the debate and now it is moving forward. Ritva Sahavirta notes that the most interesting discussion of the translated burden of proof in criminal law in recent years has taken place in the reform of the provisions on the loss of criminal benefit which have since been placed in Chapter 10 of the Criminal Code. It is stated here that the consequence of the loss of the proceeds of crime is an effective means of combating financial crime. Those planning financial crime more often than those guilty of traditional crime will have to assess in advance the disadvantages and benefits of their conduct. Economic values will then play a decisive role. That is why the threat of financial losses that may result from the act is probably the most effective deterrent to this crime, and this conclusion has now been reached by the Committee on Legal Affairs under the leadership of its chairman, Mr Kari Tolvanen. I welcome and support the fact that this has been done. The comments of our Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been taken into account here, but that statement that it is an effective means of dealing with financial crime is what I am giving it strong support myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u80	Madam President! I can tell Mr Heinos that the matter has also been on the table in Parliament between 2000 and 2001, but unfortunately the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs felt that such a reversal of the burden of proof, even in such an exceptional situation, was not possible at the time. I am very pleased that another solution has been reached this time. His wallet is the place for a financial criminal offence, and this gives him the possibility that, although it is not possible to prove directly that the large property of a financial criminal offence originates from a particular crime, in certain very limited cases the burden of proof must be reversed for him to prove that, for example, his wealth found in tax havens has been legally acquired — which is not usually the case. Finally, I would like to say that, once it has been criticised that the current government is not sufficiently fighting against financial crime, this proposal is one concrete indication of how effectively we can act against financial crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u81	Madam Speaker! This was rightly referred to in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I would just like to underline that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs explicitly considered that the translated burden of proof in this case does not apply at all to the reversal of the presumption of innocence or to the imputation of crime, as the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs also pointed out. Indeed, the prosecution must also continue to have a duty of proof that not only the defendant himself has received financial resources at the time of the offence, but only then will this burden of proof be reversed, and that is how the Legal Affairs Committee has dealt with the matter. Finally, the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that normal criminal procedural rules should continue to be respected as regards the burden of proof. And that would be the general rule, that is to say, in a slightly different way from the original government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u82	Madam President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has, of course, listened to fundamental and human rights lawyers, as should be the case. But I have sometimes called these human rights lawyers the so-called criminal justice lawyers in situations where they raise the rights of various criminals so high that, in practice, living life becomes very difficult to bring them to account for what they do. I remember that, during the last parliamentary term, when it was a question of whether illegally obtained evidence could be used, different human rights lawyers were appalled at the idea that illegally obtained evidence could be used. Well, if you could not, then, for example, these Panama papers, which have been illegally acquired, could not be used. In other words, it is important to strike a balance between, of course, the real legitimate rights of suspects and the interests of society, which are of course the clearing up of crimes and the recovery of property acquired by crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u83	Madam Speaker! I would now like to make a very serious point to Mr Zyskowicz and I would like him to move on to a proper line when he talks about our constitutional experts. I really do not think that your conduct is appropriate and I hope that you will learn and reproof.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u84	Mr President! I myself am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I am probably the most critical of all, and I often ask some rather provocative questions there. In that sense, I understand Mrs Zyskowicz's position, but of course we cannot blame our constitutional experts. They only tell the interpretations that exist. It is a good thing to distinguish here that this does not interfere with the presumption of innocence, as the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said. In that process, you can still rely on self-crimination protection and not show anything, and the prosecution has a full burden of proof. This specifically addresses the separate loss penalty which, in principle, could be disqualified in procedural terms for its very own trial, as can also be shown in the case of damages. I think it is all right that, when tools are needed to find out about the large-scale concealment of criminal assets, we have sufficient tools to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u85	Madam President! I take on board the remark made by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Lapintie, and I do not generally believe that our fundamental rights experts are not very high-ranking and competent. This term, which I referred to when I referred to the so-called human rights lawyers, has been raised, for example, in the context of the issue of whether the fingerprint register which has been created as a passport register is to be used to investigate the most serious crimes, when these human rights lawyers have considered it extremely important to emphasise that it must not be used specifically, as is not the case under current law: it is a question of future legislation. But when it was said here that these experts heard by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are simply telling us what interpretations there are, of course this is not the case. Experts from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs report on the interpretations that have been taken up by the European Court of Human Rights, for example, but of course they also make their own interpretations, and I am very pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights decided to adopt this and did not end up with an old procedure, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said, I understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u87	Madam President! This translated burden of proof is an effective means of preventing financial crime, but also of resolving it. When a guilty person is found guilty, it is quite reasonable that, in certain limited cases, he is also obliged to tell us where the property came from, for example. The chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, described this change as a significant change in our judicial system. I would like to ask Mr Tolvanen if you see any danger here that this could, for example, be enlarged in the future so that it would no longer be said that 'not guilty until proven otherwise', but that the situation would be 'guilty until proven guilty'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u88	Madam President! It is a very good thing that, at European Union level, we have been able to create systems that can take the proceeds of crime back into the property of the country in question, where this crime has been committed, precisely so that criminals lose the means by which they can conceal the property. This translated burden of proof is precisely the fact that, for example, serious drug offences, which often carry huge amounts of money, get the money out of society and stop this chain of drugs. In this regard, it could be said that the European Union has quite often been criticised in this Chamber for having done unnecessary bureaucracy, and certainly it has done so, but in the fight against serious international crime such international cooperation is very good, and when European police officers work together across borders, exchanging information and using the same means and then harmonising penalties in the region, they will certainly be able to stop this serious crime and get the benefit of criminals out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u89	Mr President! When I said just now that, as I understand it, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed to stick to the old practice, and when the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Lapintie, as an interlude, said that he did not, I would now point out that he did. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, last page, third paragraph reads as follows: 'The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that while the proposal to reverse the burden of proof remains within the limits required by the Court of Human Rights and is also possible from the constitutional point of view, the general criminal procedural legal principles give rise to strong arguments in support of the continued application of normal criminal procedural rules for the allocation of the burden of proof in the event of a loss of criminal benefit, contrary to the government's proposal. That is what the Constitutional Committee has said here, Mr Lapintie. I did not say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that this new regulation, which has now been tabled, would have been unconstitutional, but rather that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs preferred that we should stick to the old one. I am very pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did not take this position as its own, but that the fight against financial crime is indeed being stepped up. This is a good step for the current government in the fight against financial crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u90	That is precisely the way in which Mr Zyskowicz explained this, and that is what I wanted to emphasise, that, when it was essential that the Constitutional Committee stated, as you quoted in this paragraph, that the proposal for a reversal of the burden of proof should remain within the limits required by the Court of Human Rights and be possible from the point of view of the Constitution — and that is what I would like to point out that, in future, normal criminal procedural rules would continue to work — I wanted to emphasise that the committee, unlike in the past, has come to the conclusion that this remains within the limits required by the Court of Human Rights and that it is possible from the point of view of the Constitution, in particular because it must first be proved by the prosecutor to be guilty, and also that the claim of criminal origin of property must also be objectively justified and supported by sufficient facts, as stated in this opinion. But now
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u91	Mr President! In fact, that is where Mr Lapintie used much of my speech. I personally did not see any problems here in the first place, but, as Mrs Zyskowicz has probably studied these statements, we had Mikko Vuorenpää, Professor of Criminal Law at the University of Lapland, and he saw a lot of problems here and felt that the burden of proof translated from such things should in no case be taken to Finland on the basis of the presumption of innocence and self-crimination protection. In other words, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, through the experts, chose the golden middle road that we did not immediately think of if one professor thought so firmly. Personally, I believe that all possible tools will be put in place. Indeed, Finland introduced this, even though, for example, the directive did not require a reversal of the burden of proof. That I personally am very pleased with this and I thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u92	Then let us continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u93	Madam President! Loss of proceeds from crime is already in place, but there are therefore changes to the regulation. EU law requires it, that is, this directive, but we are also making changes for the needs of national legislation. These changes will harmonise regulation in the European Union and increase the possibilities for the use of the loss penalty. The consequences of the loss include a wide range of issues, and they are indeed there in Chapter 10 of the Criminal Code, as Mr Tolvanen put it. This amendment to the law extends the possibility of confiscating property from a criminal offence to the State, and this proposal involves a so-called translated burden of proof in which the defendant, the defendant, must prove that the financial gain acquired has been obtained by legal means, as is the case with the motion that the applicant must prove in criminal proceedings the facts on which his claim is based. This bill is a good addition to the fight against financial crime, and these proposed amendments are intended to enter into force on 4 October, and relatively soon. This is exactly where the directive needs to be implemented nationally. The government has acted quickly, and this is indeed a good step and a tool for those who wrestle around and face this economic crime issue every day, and by this means we will also be able to combat it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u94	Madam President! Government proposal for amendments to the Penal Code 10. it is a very welcome addition to the confiscation of property acquired by criminal activities and thus also to the fight against the shadow economy. After all, this proposal seeks to extend the possibilities of confiscating extended benefits, and it is understood that only the convicted offender or the person involved in the crime, or the person for whom the offence has been committed or for whom it has been committed, may be the victim of these loss penalties. The aim of the increased loss of benefit is, therefore, to confiscate the property acquired by criminal activity, which is not linked to a particular crime, to the State. The new proposal provides for the possibility of using the burden of proof translated in the case of the loss of extended benefit. This means that, under certain conditions, the defendant is obliged to prove the origin of the property if the prosecutor has reason to believe that it originates from criminal activity. It is important to note that the burden of proof applies only to the origin of the property, not to the guilt, so no one has to testify against himself because of the reverse burden of proof. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights unanimously supports the government's proposal. There were legal aspects to the proposal, which were also dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its opinion, but both committees, both constitutional and legal, came to the conclusion that, under certain conditions, the translated burden of proof could be realised. The purpose of the proposal is to render the vast benefits more and more lost. This is a very important addition to the fight against the shadow economy. The fact that property earned by criminal activity can be lost to the state sends a signal to criminals that illegal wealth is not acceptable in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u95	Mr President! I warmly support the measures taken to confiscate property and means obtained from offenders for the purpose of confiscating the instruments of crime more effectively to the State. The articles and their interpretations must not be an excuse for the watering down of the justified measures; that is the right line in this case of the reversal of the burden of proof. One example of a reduction in excuses: over the years, our legislation has been reformed and, in principle, the law already allows for the recognition of a drunk-driving car as a means of committing an offence, even if this right is used less than the general sense of law. As such, Finnish legislation essentially meets the requirements of the Directive, but at least the public feels that the judiciary can afford to tighten up its application of the law. I agree with the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the grounds and on the need to amend the legislation as described in the proposal, and I think there is room for further tightening. Unfortunately, here too, it is necessary for the legislator to steer the interpretation of the law in a better direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u96	Madam President! From the point of view of combating the shadow economy, this bill and these amendments to the law are necessary and also expected. This proposal has also been carefully discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In principle, the most important reform is the translated burden of proof in this first draft law in terms of increased loss of benefit. It is important for the state and society to take away the proceeds of crime. But in this context I would like to remind you that, in order to be able to use this good law and this legislation as well, we must have sufficient authority resources from there to the entire administrative chain, from Tax Administration to the police, the prosecutor and the judiciary. This is one major concern: if economic crime is to be combated and the legislation that we have available for it is to be used, then the authorities must only have enough of that work to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u97	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The first speaker is Mr Lapintie, chairman of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u98	Madam Speaker! The Government proposes to add to the electoral law a provision on the obligation of the election authorities to act impartially and provisions clarifying the assessment of the obstacle of the election authorities. It is also proposed to amend the law in such a way that the candidate or his or her spouse, child, sibling or parent cannot be a member of the electoral commission or an alternate, an election officer or an election assistant. The Constitutional Committee proposes two amendments to this government proposal, one to add to Article 15(3) a provision that a candidate may not be a member or an alternate member of the Electoral Commission, and the other to Article 73 to add that the candidate or his or her spouse, children, siblings or parents cannot be an assistant chosen by the electorate. As a result, the assistant elected by the voters themselves is subject to the same restrictions as the election assistant. Why especially this first change? Members and alternates of the Electoral Commission shall not be subject to the provisions on the accessibility of the Administrative Law as proposed by this Board. The possibility for a candidate or candidate to be a member of the Electoral Commission or as an alternate was not proposed by the Board of Directors to be limited. Boards shall be set up in the voting districts to organise the vote on the day of the election and the provisional counting of votes. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered precisely this possible participation of the candidate in the Electoral Commission in the context of the requirement for impartiality as part of the guarantees of good administration. In the implementation of the elections, questions of neutrality have mostly been resolved differently from other administrative activities. Members and alternates of the Electoral Commission shall, as far as possible, represent the parties that have nominated candidates in the previous Parliamentary elections in the constituency concerned and the voting groups that have nominated candidates in the previous Municipal elections. In practice, the impartiality of these electoral commissions is ensured by the mutual supervision of elected parties or voting groups. Given the technical nature of the duties of the Electoral Commissions and the composition of the committees, the Constitutional Committee considers it highly unlikely that a member of the Electoral Commission would be able to influence the outcome of the election. However, there is a saying that things are as they seem, and the electoral process must also appear neutral and appropriate from the point of view of an external observer. So, of course, from the point of view of such objective neutrality, how does the fact that the members of the Electoral Commission are directly involved in voting positions with voters, if the candidate himself is sitting there counting votes when we know that, for example, it is not allowed to place advertisements close to the polling station? In the explanatory memorandum to the proposed regulation, reference has been made to the Government's proposal for the adoption of the electoral law for 98 C.E., in which the need for a candidate to be a member of the Electoral Commission and as an alternate was justified by the fact that the electoral committees should have sufficient members and it is otherwise difficult to find sufficiently skilled and experienced staff if the candidates themselves could not also be able to count those votes. However, there were 3314 voting districts in the Parliamentary elections after the election law was enacted in 99 and 2142 voting districts in the Parliamentary elections one year ago. In other words, the number of voting areas has decreased by 1172 paragraphs, and in practice this reduction means that the combined number of members and alternates required for electoral committees throughout the country has decreased by 9,500 during this period. It is true that the recruitment of members of the electoral commissions has been problematic in some elections, and unexpectedly especially in larger cities. However, these practical difficulties which have arisen from time to time are not sufficient grounds for a derogation from the requirement of neutrality in administrative activities that the regulation now proposed by the government would entail. That is why the Constitutional Committee proposes that a provision be added to the electoral law that the candidate cannot be a member of the Electoral Commission or an alternate. With these changes, the committee will submit a proposal for approval by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u99	Madam President! This proposal is a good one, and I think it will also increase the credibility of the elections, especially in those citizens' ideas when they come to that election site and meet this election committee there, which will then hold these elections at the polling stations. The proposal therefore proposes to include in the electoral law a provision on the duty of the election authorities to act impartially and provisions clarifying the assessment of the obstacle of the election authorities. And it is proposed to amend the electoral law in such a way that the candidate or his or her spouse, children, siblings or parents cannot be a member of the electoral commission or an alternate, an election officer or an election assistant. Indeed, this proposal strengthens the credibility and acceptability of the elections and thus the belief in the political system as a whole. This is an important right of participation for citizens, whose value is very important for the functioning of society. And it is just as Mr Lapintie mentioned there, it is indeed difficult sometimes to find those participants in the electoral committees when people are being sought out. You just have to encourage people to get involved, that it is very meaningful and interesting to do things like this. This proposed amendment of the law now gives a little clarity to this approach, which is very good and thanks for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u100	Madam President! In recent years, we have had numerous debates in Parliament on elections, on electoral funding, with increased transparency, on electoral campaigns and also on atypical voluntary night, namely that we still have the possibility of doing paid volunteer work for other candidates and even for parties. There has been talk of electronic voting and online voting. And it is good that we are talking about these, and it is good that reforms are also being made. I left a few things to think about myself. I would like to ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Lapintie, what made you decide that the candidate cannot be a member of the electoral commission or an alternate, but then the candidate or his or her spouse, children, siblings and parents cannot be a member of the electoral committee. Why was there such a much stricter restriction on this second point, that is to say, there could be spouses there, children or others who will no longer be eligible for the electoral commission? Personally, I am in favour of the model of not being able to operate anywhere in these areas. And then this assistant elected by the electorate. I don't know how this'll work in the future. Quite a number of assistants may be, for example, elderly people, their own spouse, in some cases a family carer, which in many cases is also a spouse, and now they are categorically excluded. How will this assistant be found in the future? Is it more transparent, then, that there is one person traveling there who works for everyone — when he does not happen to be a spouse or a close person — as an assistant? In my opinion, it involves risks of its own. Mr President! Right to the end: I hope that these factors will continue to be found as officials of the elections, and it would be very important that they can continue to be managed by voluntary work, so to speak. It is a valuable thing in Finnish democracy that these are not handled by officials. Unfortunately, even now we already have situations where some municipalities have decided that the staff of the municipal office should be appointed to these institutions. And in my opinion, then, a rather important part of this democracy can in some way suffer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u101	Madam Speaker! So on this obstacle to the Electoral Commission: After all, the government did not impose any restriction on it, but according to the government’s proposal, the candidate could also have sat on the electoral committee himself, as has been the case in some cases. The committee considered this and also wondered whether it would be possible to prevent the candidate's spouse, the child, from being on the electoral committee. And we limited it to this candidate because, first of all, according to the report that was received, it would have been too strict a restriction. If you think of the normal election, even the municipal election, and the technical nature of the electoral commission, you don't even know if you have a candidate's spouse there to count those votes — few of the candidates' spouses are so well-known. Therefore, given the special nature of the Electoral Commission, we saw no justification for this further restriction. There was a lot of thought about this. And this other assistant: That simply means that the candidate or the candidate's closeness cannot be the assistant. Yes, your own spouse, the voter's own spouse, can be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u102	Mr President! I understand, of course, that the government did not propose any restriction on the Electoral Commission, and perhaps that may be quite a lasting and legitimate statement that this is not the way the Electoral Commission is doing it. I personally believe that in the majority of Finnish polling stations and municipalities people are quite well known and know whose spouses are there in what situation. That's a good point. I myself read that the candidate or his or her spouse, children, siblings or parents cannot be an election assistant or an assistant chosen by the electorate. I understood this in a different way, so that the spouse, child, sibling or parent could not then act as an election assistant either, but this was a good clarification, and regret that I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u103	Mr President! When the proposal introduces in the electoral law a provision on the duty of the electoral authorities to act impartially, the first thing I would be tempted to do is to say that it is extraordinary, because at least I have lived under the impression that the election authority has an obvious duty to act impartially without even the adoption of the law. It is easy to agree that it is inappropriate for a candidate to act on an election board or on any of the other tasks mentioned, but then, if we go down the road of considering the possibility of cheating on a candidate by a spouse or relative, should we not at the same time ban the best friends, hunting companions, colleagues and business partners?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u106	Mr President! It is important that the elections are conducted in such a way as to maintain confidence in their impartiality. But I am concerned about whether these limits go too far in the sense of, for example, small localities and also a small party that is running candidates for elections — I have the experience that in some municipalities almost all of my party’s players are candidates. In practice, it will be very difficult to find even those other suppliers who would not be either candidates or their immediate relatives, so these recruitment problems may arise. I have not personally felt that these questions have ever come up against the suspicion of inappropriate influence or bias. On that point, which Mr Heinonen took on this question of assistants: that too is perhaps a problem in small municipalities, where these players are few and the districts are quite small. I find it problematic that the voter's choice of assistant is limited even in situations where this assistant would happen to be related to the candidate, because when, for example, a person is needed because of an illness involving communication ability, the family nurse, for example the spouse, may be the only one who understands what that person wants to communicate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u107	Madam President! The amendment of the electoral law is a clarification of this assessment of the obstacle. This was the starting point for the introduction of a restriction on these rights in the electoral committees. In some ways, I tried to understand that the restriction would only apply to members of the constituency commission or the central electoral commission of the municipality, but it is very difficult to understand why the Constitutional Committee intervened in the government's proposal insofar as the obstacle of members of the electoral commissions also needs to be changed. After all, we have never had a problem with the reliability and trust of these people in these elections, as I understand it. In that sense, I am surprised, as Mr Räsänen said, that the problem in small towns is that those parties which simply do not have people to put in those positions will, as it were, have to give up those places in practice and then give them to another party if they are all going to be frozen in the future. Of course, I am in favour of increasing trust and so forth, but, as I mentioned, when there has been no problem, why should such a problem be found? Second thing. I am also very surprised that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not pay attention to the amendment of the electoral law to other regulations of this kind, which would have been possible at the moment as well. However, in municipal elections, for example, these non-transparent, non-elected delegates receive very important seats, such as the seats of the Chairman of the Boards and other important tasks, and they do not need to be published in any way, for example, for election funding. In that sense, this whole process should have been taken further and actually started to seek that transparency in areas where it would have been a great need, and I could not tinker with such small things, I might say.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u108	Madam President! According to the Election Act, no attempt must be made to influence the voter's freedom of election at the advance polling station or at the polling station on the election day. In practice, this has meant that there must be no electoral advertisements in sight. However, according to the current law, the candidate has been able to work there on the electoral committee, thus being present and present all day at the polling station. In fact, this cannot be compared to an advertisement, but there has been no equality between candidates.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u111	Mr President! Here someone asked why this has usually come, whether the representative — I don’t remember, was now who he was. This Government proposal states that this has been raised since the municipal elections in 2012 and is linked to the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which has stated that the obstacle of members and alternates of the Electoral Commission has been open to interpretation and that the Chancellor of Justice has submitted a case to the Ministry of Justice for examination. Here, too, there are reasons why this issue has been moved forward. Experts were present in the Constitutional Committee. This is Article 9a that the election authority must act impartially in its role. Representative Lapintie may correct me if I recall wrong, but was Professor Hidén, who said that this is only a pious wish that it does not lead to anything and it seems like such a pious phrase. Yes, I personally felt it was important that the candidate himself was not visible. However, it is true that accessibility is also what it looks like. This kind of embellishment that is neutral, well, it is beautiful, but it is not enough to safeguard it. There was a great deal of discussion about what was said here by a representative that this close relationship might not be just an obstacle problem. For example, it may be that an election manager is a very good friend and something else or has other financial links. We will probably never get into a situation where everyone is so-called unhindered. Then there was the fact that people are there to watch a little, parties, one another, take a little neurotic view of the fact that it is also a little secure. It is a good question that this should be so far-reaching, but I am in favour of this proposal myself, because I have been in favour of this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u112	Representatives Räsänen and Niikko and someone else were asking about these backgrounds. The government's proposal is, of course, at the bottom of the government's proposal and has then been discussed. I personally agree that there is also a need to find out, for example, about the funding of elections, and there will certainly be bigger problems of freezing, but that is not on our table at the moment. Why, then, have these obstacles generally been addressed? This is where the members of the Constitutional Committee, the representatives of Meri and Parviainen, have already gone through it. Yes, the perception of the obstacles to public action has changed and tightened up since 98 C.E. this electoral law was enacted, and there is probably one reason for that. What Mrs Räsänen said about the problem of smaller localities and smaller parties was much thought into. That is why we received further clarification, as I said in that presentation, namely that between the parliamentary elections in 99 and 2015 there have been constituencies combined and the number of polling stations reduced by 9,500 people, and this is significant. In fact, the problems of whether or not there are election officials, unexpectedly in smaller localities, such problems have not occurred, but have appeared, for example, in the constituency of Helsinki, which was surprising. After all this, we have come to the conclusion that it is also appropriate for the election committee to stay with the candidate. That line was drawn to the candidate for precisely these reasons, in order to get enough of those election officials as well. In view of the technical nature of the Electoral Commission, we considered that this was a suitable limitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u113	Mr President! Election delivery and its honesty and correctness are the cornerstones of democracy. The Electoral Commission shall be responsible for organising the vote on the day of the election and for the provisional counting of votes. The Central Election Commission will then check the final result. For decades, our electoral system has been very well-managed in international comparisons and has hardly raised any doubts about dishonesty, with just a few exceptions. Representatives from different sides of the party are appointed as members and alternates in the electoral committees, which makes manipulation of the election result highly unlikely. In spite of what I have just said, however, it should be noted that although the actual electoral fraud has been virtually completely excluded, the decision to vote may have had a slight psychological impact on the fact that the candidate or candidates have been involved in the voting situation in the electoral house. As has already been said here, it may be thought that this has served as a small last-minute advertisement for the candidate, which in itself is a small contradiction to the strict regulation of election advertising, as Mrs Parviainen has just said. It is also, of course, a question of the fact that it must also appear to be impartially dealt with. And, as stated in this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the arguments that have been put forward earlier on the low level of election officials have lost practical importance. In fact, I would prefer more and more non-party political non-partisan participation in the electoral committees in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u114	Mr President! In fact, the background to this need for change or the supposed need for change, i.e. the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court and the opinions of the high judicial authorities, has already been highlighted in a few speeches. However, they are rather theoretically considering this issue, and they do not have to consider in themselves the practical effects of their policies, such as the fact that even a small municipal council may have a list of candidates per party of 50 candidates. All their immediate circle would then be unfit to act on the electoral committees. Where does it lead: Can these electoral committees be formed? I'm afraid of this effect. Then, of course, if we want the whole selection of committees out of the political parties, it will be our own debate. But do we want it, because then political parties have an interest in monitoring each other's honesty in the election.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u115	Madam President! I would like the chairman of the committee to comment again on paragraph 73: was it really necessary to make this limitation that the assistant elected by the voter should be limited in this way? Indeed, this can actually limit the right to vote to a sick person whose communication is understood only by a mate who is a family carer, for example, if, for example, in a small locality, the candidate for a municipal election happens to be related to the spouse who is a family carer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u116	Madam Speaker! This addition to Article 73 was considered to be necessary in the form of comments made by experts and was therefore also intended to be compared with this election assistant, which was indeed considered. And I may have misunderstood Mr Heinonen at the beginning. I'm sure you got it right, and maybe I pulled some corners. So if there is a situation that the chosen assistant is the spouse of a candidate, then of course this section will prevent it, in that sense yes. That is the outcome of the committee's analysis, and the information we have received shows that there have been enough of these suppliers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u117	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u118	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Maternity allowance, and especially the maternity kit, is a Finnish innovation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u119	Madam President! Mr Haglund has made a good proposal and shows that although he is a former minister and is still the current party leader, small things are being raised here in Parliament which are important and big for those they touch. Of course, someone will be the first to ask whether this is yet another attraction to apply for Finland. I would rather think that this initiative by Mr Haglund is a human factor. Since 38 C.E., through the war years, we have had the means to take responsibility and give this package to mothers. The only thing that left me to think about myself was that it could be justified, of course, to direct specifically to these people who, for example, are fleeing from war or natural disasters, in particular that package that does not select maternity allowance for their use. Then it would be more likely to be for that little child to be born. Mr President! I would have liked to have signed Mr Haglund's initiative, but he has only collected the names of the opposition here, although here we are sitting side by side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u120	Mr President! Of course, I personally believe that children should take care of and show empathy and sympathy for them, and in that respect I am sure that I will be in line with Mr Haglund. However, with regard to this bill, I cannot share the same arguments as Mr Heinonen said that this is not so much a attraction, but this is a symbolic proposal of this kind, as Mr Haglund says, and a human factor. Now, however, we must remember that, with this asylum crisis in motion, our society is taking care of everyone who has come to this country, perhaps a little too well. Twenty thousand asylum seekers, whom we are trying to integrate, cost us EUR 500 million a year, and in that sense we already have sufficient resources for all those who come here and take care of them. In that sense, even in this economic situation, such a symbolic addition to the increase in these funds is not exactly the right thing to do at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u121	Madam President! Congressman Niikko, what difference does it make in the big picture that last year, according to the information I received, five women like this gave birth? In other words, this applies only to mothers who are pregnant when they come, apply for asylum and whose authorisation has not been processed or has not been given legal force. There were five women last year, according to my records. Does the Finns of Finland really think so much more, or is this, hopefully, only Mr Nikon's view that these five women do not have a maternity kit — for a small child socks, and what else is there, that traditional toy and something else small — deserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u122	Three replies, representatives of Niikko, Meri, Haglund. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u123	Madam President! That is precisely what Mr Heinonen said: If it is just five people who need a maternity pack, then I will certainly be taking part in the same collection. This isn't worth the bill. Here we are wasting the resources of the whole Parliament to deal with a bill with very minimal effects. But as far as this attraction is concerned, it was not thought that, at the time, the promise of Prime Minister Sipilä's mansion for asylum seekers would have been a factor of attraction, but it was. In that sense, this maternity kit is such a symbolic product built for Finnishism, and I would not wish to see the resultant attraction to this next migration crisis, which has already begun from Libya to Italy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u124	Mr President! I would have liked to have seen a legislative initiative in this regard, and I hope that there will be a later budgetary impact — I remember that you made a budget proposal out of it, which was then not supported — and then an answer as to whether this is really the case, that the municipalities do not give children's clothes and toys if they are in a safe place. I doubt that they will and will be replaced by the government. Then there is the fact that Mr Heinonen is now pious here. Why have you not pursued this government policy when the budget has been made? You are riding two wheels here now, that you have accepted these things we have had, you must have voted against them. Did you vote against when Mr Haglund made this supplementary proposal in the autumn? He did this, didn't he? So I hope you voted for it then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u125	The answers, that is two more, Mr Haglund and Mr Heinonen, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u126	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President! Now it is just a question of principle and not of money. It was tried to find out how many of these women last year were, and came a little different numbers, but in any case it number is so small that this has no economic, proper meaning. This year there will probably be fewer asylum seekers than last year. That this is not an economic issue. It is quite true that efforts have certainly been made to help all these women by municipalities and others. But now the symbolic question is whether we want all children born in Finland to be treated in the same way. That is what this is all about in practice, because that child cannot help it that its mother happens to be an asylum seeker whose application has not been processed. I feel bad that if the mother’s application had been processed a little faster, then the child would have been given all the same things that other children are given. That, in my opinion, is what this is all about. This may be a trivial matter for someone, but on the other hand it is a matter of principle. I really cannot believe that this would become a factor of attraction, that pregnant women from all over the world would now come here just because we have such an arrangement. I really can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u127	Mr President! I myself would have supported this type of proposal if Finnish law had allowed it before this. So we have the law so far that no payment can be made. That is why Mr Haglund, who is now on rotation leave in the opposition, has taken this bill, which I am in favour of. I looked at the monetary value of this, and if that five women, mother, were to be true last year and the financial maternity allowance was EUR 140, then this really does not matter at all. That's why for me this is a human factor and nothing else. This is not a factor of attraction either because if a child is born a few weeks later than that decision on asylum has been made, then they will have it. I'm sure it's not a question of attracting more women here right now. In my opinion, we have a good and human model where:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u128	And then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u129	Madam Speaker! Maternity allowance, and in particular that maternity kit, was originally designed and intended for vulnerable mothers, but after that, you will be happy to extend to all Finnish mothers. I do believe that the original intention supports Mr Haglund's proposal and the objectives of the initiative. I personally welcome this and would like the committee to take this very seriously and look into it. In my opinion, this is precisely where asylum has not yet been granted, in fact, could be developed and limited in such a way that, in these situations, that aid should always be given as a package, because the problem might be that the money would not be left for the mother or the child, but would then go somewhere in the country of origin. But if it is specifically about giving a package and these children’s kicksuits and socks, it is by no means an attraction factor, and I would not consider it such. So pregnant women do not apply for such a trip because they know that they will then get children’s clothes for this child.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u130	Mr President! When I did not receive that reply from Haglund, I thought that in the autumn you had said in the budget that it would be EUR 120000, or at least then you had presented such an appropriation, so I do not know if it was five people ago. But then I have to say personally that I do not believe that this will necessarily become a factor of attraction. But I must say that in the social debate, people feel that we have put hundreds of millions of people into immigration and they will get everything they need when they are in a safe place. I personally want, of course, that small children get good care. But I don't know if they need this separately. I certainly agree with Mr Räsänen that, if this is done, it is not money, it is goods, so that it does not end up... Women are in a subordinate position. The other night I met women in Hyvinkää from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iraq who were single parents and lost their spouses and many things, and they had children with them. They are in a very vulnerable position, that is, if there is a man in it and if there is money in it, then it may be that money goes somewhere else. They had a really bad situation there, and women and children are in a very vulnerable situation. If I had hope for myself, we would, as a rule, take women and children here. I think these men could do better. After all, the statistics show that 70% are men, yet international estimates suggest that about 50% of those on the move are women. But I really don't think anyone's going out here for a baby pack. But these are these symbolic effects. However, I would like to hear from Mr Haglund where you received that EUR 120 000 at the time, because I now want to understand only what figures we are talking about — that is not to be underestimated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u131	Madam President! For this quite reasonable reflection by Mrs Meren on where that figure came from: When we took the bill, it was summer, and we did not yet have any real statistics on how many people were arriving in Finland. Of course, no one knew, and neither was there the number of women, men, and so forth. Now we know that a very large number of those who came to Finland were men, and of course they would not get this kind of packaging and so on. Now that we know the correct figures, we know that this, at least in the light of last year's figures, has no fiscal, economic significance, but is a matter of principle. That 120000 euros would mean that there would be 1000 women of this kind, and it is known that last year's statistics led it to our initiative going very much on the upper deck. I would rather have a budget initiative, which was higher than lower than lower. But if we take a look at the statistics from last year, we will see that a very small proportion of the number that came to Finland are women. And then if we go and see how many of them were pregnant, it is seen that this really does not matter financially. I think that Mr Räsänen's idea that it is just a package is a reasonable approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u132	And then let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u133	Madam President! Of course, Mr Haglund and Mr Heinonen, it is not the case that this has any role to play, as it certainly did not have with the Prime Minister's apartment. But what the Prime Minister had in his apartment had a huge advertising value in Finland. It did draw Iraqis to Finland. There's a lot of them coming from there right now. Did you know, among other things, that earlier, when the Iraqis applied for 2,000 passports a day to get out of that country, today they are applying for 12,000 passports a day? — 13,000 passports is the latest information? — — — — And the main reason for the passport application is why a passport is needed, so they say they want to go to Finland. But the point is that there are legal initiatives of this kind and there is no longer any need for someone to start demanding an assessment of the impact of children on this issue, that what are the effects of this on children if this package is not available? That, yes, we should focus on the real problems that exist in this country. There is a major economic problem here and the problem of the migration crisis. And that problem of the migration crisis is taking the ashes away from the pensioners, the unemployed and the low-income ones who today marvel at our debate here in Parliament when they are not taken care of very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u134	Madam President! This maternity kit is a fine Finnish innovation from which we recently read that it has also been copied around the world. I hope, of course, that this will even be the export product of the future. I have to tell you from my own experience that it was necessary for me when the baby announced an early arrival and the supplies had not yet been made. You can say that your own baby at least in this cardboard box slept well for the first few months, nothing to blame. The value of the contents of this package is large compared to this monetary amount of EUR 140, the value of these kicksuits is many times higher. When I myself come from that fairway and the tribe is also on the Swedish side, my cousin from Sweden also wanted to buy this package from Kela, considered it so significant and valuable. It was successful for the first child, but for some reason the latter no longer. Finland had tightened the line, but it did not succeed. I think this proposal is important. The marginal question in itself, as has been said, does not apply to many people, but I do assume that Finland is an equal country and that it also applies to these pregnant mothers from abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u135	Mr President! I have not written this initiative myself, but after listening to Mr Haglund and now that I have read through this initiative, I am happy to support Mr Haglund's draft law. Women who have applied for asylum will certainly need a maternity kit for the reasons just explained by Mr Haglund. These mothers, and of course babies in particular, certainly have a need for this package, and now I am thinking primarily of the little baby that is to be born. It is a question of humanity, it is a question of human dignity and principles, and when, moreover, this does not entail great costs for society, I think this is a very good initiative. No one comes to Finland for this package.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u136	Mr President! There I was looking at this amount and I found that they had 14 women in this group. Let's fix that for the record. Five had been an estimate at some point, but we are talking about a small number of women, and when the situation calms down and we get good control, I think it is human that every little baby will get that maternity pack in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u137	Mr President! I believe that this is an example of a good innovation and a proposal which, even if it comes from the opposition, would indeed be worth looking at quite open-mindedly. I think it would be good to start with the idea and principle that every child born in Finland — whether it is his nationality status or residence status for his or her parents — should receive this fine Finnish innovation, the maternity allowance package, as a package. And I don't think it's a bad commercial for Finland at all. I think it is a good thing if we are able to raise this Finnish product and its reputation internationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u138	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u139	Madam President! I am a member of the Board of the Lapland Memory Association, and this is an idea that we have come up with at the initiative of our medical member, which he has come across in practical life. I propose that the law of the bill on the amendment of Articles 3 and 21 of the Act on the authorisation of lobbying. The main content of the initiative is that the purpose of the initiative is to extend the possibility of a lobbying mandate in situations where a person’s close circle is prevented from acting as a guardian authorised by the person due to the rules on accessibility. The law provides for a mandate which the delegate has ordered to enter into force in the event of an illness, mental dysfunction, deterioration of his health or any other similar reason, i.e. a so-called lobbying mandate. According to Article 3 of the Act, the representative can only be a natural person and this initiative proposes to amend the law on the authorisation of representation so that the legal person can also act as a representative. In addition, this initiative proposes to amend Article 21 of Chapter 4 of the same law. ) to which it is proposed to include a reference to the future application of the law on lobbying rather than the law on guardianship rather than the law on guardianship. This is justified by the fact that there have been situations in practical life in which a person with reduced functional capacity is not able to find a suitable natural person with whom a lobbying mandate could be made, and in many of these situations accessibility is the reason why a suitable person is not found in his or her immediate circle. On the other hand, there are situations in which a person in his or her immediate circle finds no natural person who could at all be thought of as a delegate. In these circumstances, there is no mandate for lobbying. If there is no delegate at all, a public guardian will ultimately be appointed to handle matters. In this case, problems of interpretation have arisen with regard to the applicable law, since when a guardian is replaced by a guardian, the law on guardianship applies. The situation brings problems to the guardian, as it prevents donations altogether and brings many things into the jurisdiction of the authorities. From a human point of view, however, the most important problem is that when a person is able to function in the above situations, he cannot, to the end of his or her life, regulate his or her financial or personal affairs by means of a proxy. The above situations place unnecessary administrative burdens on the administration due to the additional decision-making process, both in matters of authorisation and the appointment of a guardian, and the judiciary also exerts a burden on court proceedings relating to the appointment of a guardian in cases where the delegate has not been found but, on the other hand, the capacity to act has been reduced to such an extent that assistance is needed to deal with matters. Researchers and the National Process Development Working Group of Local Register Offices have suggested that the law on lobbying could be applied, but this would require a change to the law on lobbying. In view of the above, I propose that Parliament adopt the following bill: Act amending Articles 3 and 21 of the Act on the authorisation of lobbying. Article 3. The person of the councilman. An authorised representative for the purposes of this Act may be both a natural person and a legal person. Section 21. The appointment of a guardian for the mandate of an authorised representative. Where an authorised representative is temporarily prevented from carrying out his duties because of illness or obstacle or other reason, and the delegate has not appointed a deputy delegate, the district court or, at the request of the authorised representative, the guardian may order the guardian to perform his duties by applying the law on guardianship to the guardian. Unless expressly provided otherwise, the mandated trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Act. The role of guardian referred to in paragraph 1 shall cease when, following the cessation of the obstacle, the trustee and the guardian file a notification with the guardian authority referred to in Article 29. Where an authorised representative and a guardian disagree as to whether the guardian’s duties have ceased, the district court referred to in Articles 70 or 71 of the Act on guardianship shall decide on the application of either of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u140	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, for a good initiative. As Chairman of the Memory Federation, I warmly support this bill, and this issue has been discussed in the Memory Federation before. Now for a few words I want to speak from the point of view of a mentally ill person. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently preparing a law on self-determination. The law has been awaited and prepared for a long time. I hope it will soon be brought to the attention of Parliament, because there are many shortcomings in the implementation of self-determination for people with memory disorders. Of course, the law alone does not help, because it is often also a matter of lack of knowledge and skill and negative attitudes. However, the law provides a framework for action and also for changes in attitudes. Too often, in the case of people with memory disorders, it is thought that self-determination cannot be exercised and that others know better what is good for a person with memory disorders. However, thinking should be translated into all that a person with a memory disorder can still determine himself and how to ensure his own will. I hope that the future self-determination law and its explanatory statement will also take a position on two very important issues for the self-determination and legal protection of a person with memory disorders, namely the will to treat and the mandate for lobbying provided for in this bill. I hope that both things will also be clearly enshrined in this new law on self-determination. Mr President! If a person has made a request for treatment in a legal capacity, it should be followed unless there is a reasonable reason to act differently. This should also be ensured in some way by law, because this does not always happen, even if a person has a will to treat and has been made legal. By means of a mandate, a person can determine himself, who is to care for his affairs after, for example, memory sickness makes him no longer able to care for them. He or she may apply for a right of representation himself or herself to a person of his choice. Not all people have a credit or a close person, and this bill must therefore be supported. This bill therefore proposes that not only a natural person but also a legal person, such as the Memory Association, be able to act as a lobby representative. I know from practice that the Memory Association is often asked to do this because of the sick and the people of the Memory Association, and The Memory Association can have a good relationship for many years, and has confidence in the activities of the Memory Association. But at the moment this is not possible under the law. Moreover, this bill, if implemented, would also reduce the work of the Local Register Offices, which is also an important point of view on this issue. This bill is certainly to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u141	Mr President! The authorisation of representation is a good legal instrument, which came into Finnish legislation rather late, only in 2007. In a number of cases, problems have been encountered, for example in the generation of businesses and also farms, when the mandate for lobbying has been completely lacking and the matter has then fallen into the hands of the representative of the public register office and things have been blocked for decades. I believe that this lobbying mandate is intended to be given to a close person, a relative or other close person in our legislation, but the possibility raised by Mr Ojala-Niemela that it could be given not only to a natural person but also to a legal person is certainly well worth considering. I do not know whether Mr Ojala-Nieme is now referring to the fact that, for example, a reputable law firm could act as a lobbyist, so that perhaps there would not be so much fear of abuse. Indeed, this is worth considering. Of course, it is easy to approach the actual late assignment. Then I would understand that this has been intended to intervene in another matter. So when the public representative of the Local Register Office comes into the picture, then of course all these provisions of the guardianship law enter into the picture, and they make it completely impossible or, at least, very difficult, even if this guardian of the Local Register Office is a reasonable person. Apparently, this has been the case. I would like Mr Ojala-Niemela to open up this very worthy initiative further here for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u142	Madam President! I always like to talk about the guardianship of the Local Register Office, I must have been a career there for 12 years, and I know the authority of lobbying very deeply, I have been developing this law and these problems. I think this involvement of the company might be a good idea. When the law on lobbying was enacted in 2007 in a government proposal, it was assumed that it was such a personal and bilateral private-law instrument that it must have a designated person. But I do not see any obstacle to it if a person, within the framework of his sovereignty, defines a particular office for that task. I do not see any major problem here, and I agree that self-determination must be emphasised, and this lobbying authority specifically emphasises it. As regards the appointment of a guardian, I can also assure you that the head of the local register office is now the one who plays the most important role there. After all, during the previous guardianship act, the relatives and their interests were those who were heard — the candidate for the principal himself was a minor matter. But just a few things I may want to be more specific about, and has there perhaps been a slight misunderstanding in part — that person of the guardian or an authorised person — I really do not want to interfere any more when I think that it could be a company, too, because the Local Register Office is examining the fact that the person has understood the importance of the mandate and has been legally capable of doing so. There is talk here that there are no suitable people, and then there are obstacles. So the delegate may be close, he may be indisposed, but if there is a situation that the delegate and the delegate should take legal action with each other, or if they are close to the delegate as a co-author of legal proceedings, then the delegate is indisputable. These situations, which appear to be the subject of this bill, are these obstacles in certain individual legal acts. It must then be noted that, if this guardian, who is a temporary guardian and is assigned to the duties of an authorised representative, were to be subject to the guardianship act, and then, on the other hand, if that guardian were to be a public guardian, that would not be possible, since the public guardian is not obliged to carry out duties under the guardianship law. That in that sense one must remember when this bill may be dealt with, to keep it separate. Personally, I would see that this law of lobbying could apply to such a guardian, if the delegate himself so decreed in a proxy. Now we're giving you automation. There may be a situation where the delegate appoints and proposes it as a substitute for the guardian. Then the councilman won't know who he is. We cannot give such a broad right to further transfer. Yes, there should be an endorsement in the power of attorney that the person states that if an alternate is sometimes assigned to this task due to the existence of an obstacle, it may then be the person to whom this law on lobbying applies. I think that is very important. There are other points there, including the right of authorisation, on which the delegate can decide for himself, and this is so important that I think that the delegate should be able to decide for himself. The main practical problem is, in fact, that Article 20 of the Lobby Act states that if it is to be carried out by an authorised representative, it must also cover the deposit, sale and take-over of the pledges of the property, then a separate note must be given in the proxy document. This is often not the case when experts are not used, and the main problem has come in these situations from the fact that even the appointment of a trustee is not enough, or from the confirmation of a proxy, because there is no right in the proxy to sell the property, and then the only option remains to impose that trustee. In fact, one could also have wondered about this problem that it should no longer be there. It is very good that these matters of the guardianship law are being considered, but there are a lot of such things here that it may be a little bit past the fact that... Of course, I know how to do these things like my own when I've been doing them for years, so if you want to ask me, ask me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u143	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here and, as I said at the beginning, this initiative has come from the needs of a very practical life. Family relations have become so relaxed as then that no breast heirs and close ones may be found in the nearby environment to whom this assignment could be entrusted. I would say to Mr Kiviranta why it could not be a reputable law firm, I will not rule it out. In the same way, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen introduced these memory associations as an example, which I also consider to be a good thing. I also did the final work on this guardianship and lobbying at the level of principles, but in practical work I have not had the same experience of this, to the extent that I certainly do not have the same experience as Mr Meri in terms of this practical work. This is a good food for that committee reading and I am sure that important aspects will then be considered there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u144	Mr President! I myself have come across this issue, or in fact the Memory Federation and the Memory Associations have come across it in exactly the kind of situation in which a sick person would like to give a mandate to the memory association with which he has been working for a long time, and that trust has then been created in that association and in the activities of that association. Well, we have been talking here about lawyers and offices of this kind, and I would like to ask Mr Ojala-Niemelä: what legal persons did he think, or what were they thinking at the Lapland Memory Association, what could those legal persons be who this would apply to?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u145	This lobbying mandate would be important to make the public aware that people could do such a thing. I myself have drawn up a lobbying authorisation document, and it does not really find any decent models for it, but it must then itself understand what kind of paper it is worth writing. It is also worth considering, of course, the options that the person to whom the mandate is being given will actually lose its legal capacity. Of course, as long as they still remember, the Memory Federation could be a little more reminding people of the importance of this mandate of lobbying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u146	Mr President! The Memory Union is doing a great deal of this work all over the country. If you go to the website of the Memory Union, you will also receive instructions on how to move ahead with a lobbying mandate and how to deal with it, so that www.memiloliitto.fi, there is plenty of information about the matter, including the treatment will, which is also a very important document for a person with memory problems or for any of us legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u147	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u148	Madam President! In this bill, the most important thing is that in serious crimes, the sentences would be longer, i.e. that the time spent in prisons would be longer. First of all, I must say that I am grateful for the fact that 28 MPs have signed this bill, especially from the People's Party of Finland, and I believe that this is good for our party, so that we can move this issue forward through our minister. Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! There are far too short periods of time in prison for aggravated crimes in terms of public sense of justice. The current practice is unsustainable from the point of view of justice and security. Rape must not be condemned — not if you look at it "from the point of view of the length of the rampage". The clear majority and opinion of the citizens have long criticised the weakness of Finnish legislation. In the case of the convictions of serious crimes, the sentences are too short-term. There are far too many failures in the Criminal Code and its interpretation. For example, last December the Espoo District Court sentenced a man who had sexually abused a child for nearly six years to 3.5 years in prison. According to the court, abuse began when the child was 4 years old and the actions ended when the child was 10 years old. It is therefore fair to ask whether the legal certainty of the victim and his/her family was fulfilled in that, in addition to a mild conviction, the sentenced person has the possibility of parole in this case after a year and three months. Under the current criminal code, a offender who has not been in prison for three years will be released on parole after half of his sentence has been served. However, for a young offender, the time to sit is even shorter, only one third. Furthermore, probation can take place six months before the actual release from prison. Mr President! I would now like to go directly to this content of the bill. This bill proposes a reduction in the length of time spent in prison by the offender. In future, the sentence of imprisonment resulting from aggravated crimes against life and health would be carried out entirely in prison. However, six months before the release, it would still be possible to obtain a controlled test exemption if there are conditions. In the case of non-serious crimes against life and health, the treatment of a so-called first-time person would be less severe in the future if the offence was preceded by a period of at least six years without prison. At present, the deadline is three years. Sections 5 to 14 of Chapter 2c of the Criminal Code These paragraphs regulate the speed with which an inmate sentenced to an unconditional term of imprisonment is released for parole. The main articles are Section 5 Sections 8 and 8 According to them: 1) As a rule, a prisoner is released for parole when he has suffered two thirds of his sentence or half of the sentence of a crime committed at the age of 21. 2) The main rule is waived when the prisoner has not served a prison sentence in the three years prior to the offence. In this case, he shall be released on parole after he has served half of his sentence or one third of the sentence of a crime committed at the age of 21. 3) In addition, the time actually spent in prison can be reduced by controlled test freedom. You can get parole six months before you're paroled. In this case, the prisoner is supervised outside the prison by technical equipment or other means. Mr President! Thus, for example, a man who has been sentenced to nine years in prison for manslaughter can actually be in prison for four years. For aggravated rape at the age of 21, a sentenced person who has been sentenced to four years' imprisonment can only sit in prison for 10 months. As mentioned above, these mitigating situations require that the offender has not been in prison in the three years prior to the crime. The criminal code is therefore significantly less severe for a prisoner who either has no prior prison sentences or whose last sentence of imprisonment is long enough for him to be absent for three years. — This can be found in the second sentence of Article 5(2). The relief applies to many situations. One of these is the so-called genuine first-timeness, when the person has no prior prison sentences. On the other hand, the convicted person may actually be a repeat offender. There may be a number of serious crimes in history. The way of life may have been a criminal, even though there has been no unconditional imprisonment for three years. The situation of those who have recently moved to Finland from abroad is also considered. Some foreign offenders may also have lived criminally in their previous location, but in Finland they receive first-time treatment. With the increase in the number of asylum seekers, this attention will be even more significant. The situation is a violation of the public's sense of justice and a threat to security. A very criminal background can give you the least possible treatment. Mr President! Attention is also drawn to the fact that the main rule of early parole also applies to convictions against gross crimes against life and health. It is also not in accordance with the general sense of law that a prisoner convicted of a serious crime is almost automatically released from prison when he has completed as little as half of the prison time when he is a young offender or two thirds, which is the main rule. As a result of the above, the conditions for exemption from prison must be tightened as follows: in the case of serious crimes against life and health, the total abolition of (1) the general premature release and (2) the relaxation on the basis of first-time residence. As a result of these strict predictions, the offender of the serious crime would be punished in full if he did not reach a controlled test release no earlier than six months before the release. Mr President! I would like to make a brief list of these serious crimes which would be affected by this tightening. They can be found in Chapter 2c of the Criminal Code, Section 11, paragraph 1, paragraph 1. They are: murder, killing, killing, aggravated assault, aggravated rape, aggravated sexual abuse of a child, aggravated robbery, aggravated destruction, mass destruction, crime against humanity, aggravated crime against humanity, war crime, aggravated war crime, torture, aggravated trafficking in human beings, hostage-taking, gross endangerment of health, nuclear explosive crime, abduction, attempted and complicity in such a crime. In addition, Article 11 of Chapter 2c on highly dangerous criminals would remain in force. It provides that, in the case of serious crimes against life and health, the court may decide that the prisoner is to be released from prison only at the end of its total sentence. Mr President! This is a weakness of current legislation, this Article 11 of Chapter 2c is not often used. In the case of serious crimes other than those mentioned above, the conditions of first-timeism must also be tightened. At present, first-time treatment is granted if you have not served three years in prison. This deadline should be changed to six years, except for young offenders under 20 years of age, to four years. A longer period of time better reflects the fact that a person is not really accustomed to a criminal way of life and can be released to parole before the end of the sentence. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say that the relaxation of early release should be removed from serious crimes against life and health. This is the main content of the bill. In these cases, it must be practical to sit in prison for the whole sentence unless you are released from probation six months before the end of the sentence. Finally, it is necessary to reiterate this fact that it is worth remembering that, now that we are in the midst of an immigration crisis in Finland, it underscores the importance of a strict forecasting of the line. Judgments must also be credible for foreigners who are used to other practices. This legislative change will make our society fairer, and it will send a clear message to our citizens that our legislators are up to date and want to create a safer society in our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u149	Mr President! The use of justice in Finland is accompanied by a number of glaring anti-laws and attitudes problems, the most blatant of which is this bill, which is supported, seeks to remedy. It is incomprehensible how a convicted person can get an automatic discount on his sentence. It's contempt for the victims of the crime. Is their suffering worth less because the perpetrator was a first-time offender? The Court of Justice, for some reason, condemns certain acts already in principle to the bottom of the scale, and a further sale of the judgments will be launched. The general view is that judgments should sit as they are from day to day. A particularly incomprehensible idea is that even those guilty of gross crimes are renewed for the first time only a few years after the acts have been committed. The current legislation will lead to a situation which, in the opinion of the public, is absurd and contrary to truth and fairness. Mr President! This bill is lacking in some of these shortcomings. That is why I wish it success and that Parliament the backbone to take this matter seriously. The Ministry of Justice examines the relationship between judgments and the general sense of justice, and here is a concrete presentation of how to improve that relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u150	Mr President! Representative Niikko reported on a case involving six years of child abuse and a sentence of 3.5 years in prison. We have such a strange culture of delinquency among criminals, which explains these loose laws. In fact, when I look around, there are no Finns other than the Finns in this Chamber dealing with this issue, so we Finns are clearly a different party in this matter, we really want to change that. It can't be right for a rapist to rape for the first time every three years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u153	Mr President! The bill tabled by Representative Nikon for the amendment of Section 5 of Chapter 2c of the Criminal Code addresses a very important issue. Currently, as a rule, parole is released when two thirds of the sentence has been served by the prisoner and the total sentence of the young offender or first-time offender is no more than half or less. In addition, controlled trial freedom may be reduced by six months. The definition of ‘first time’ includes prisoners who have not been in prison for three years before the execution of the sentence. However, it is not in the spirit of the general sense of law that the period of freedom for the first time is so short. This bill of law by Mr Niiko addresses these shortcomings in a perfectly correct way. According to the initiative, the deadline for first-time employment would be increased to six years, for young people to four years. In fact, the deadline could be even longer, possibly 10 years or more. A long period of time would give significant indications that a person is not a life - style criminal. The representative, Mr Niikko, also suggests that, in the case of serious crimes against life and health, the general rule of premature release and relaxation should be abolished on the basis of the first-time nature of the offence. Mr President! These are highly supported proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code. They would also be important for citizens' sense of security and would send an important moral message to citizens and victims of crime, as Mr Mäkelä said earlier. Of course, we can still afford other criminal sanctions, but this would be a very good step if it were to come about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u154	Mr President! I am very much in favour of this Niiko bill and I have signed it. In general, in our system of penalties, the Court of Justice, for example, takes the measurement of a number of offences as the starting point for the most serious crime, and even when I have been rapporteur in the Court of Appeal, then, in a very formal way, there will be the additional penalty for other offences, which usually means one third of the following offences, i.e. that there will be a reduction at first. Moreover, the Court can take into account harsh and mitigating factors in the measurement, but if there are even easier or automatic admissions to parole, it will lead to a reduction in the number of offences first, perhaps in the measurement of mitigating factors. After all, this publicity recently served as a mitigating ground for the Supreme Court in a sexual crime. The prosecution has stated that it is a complaint to the Supreme Court, because crimes of social significance and talk may go public and it may always be possible to say that when this became public, then I do not have to be punished. Here I myself was last week on a panel where we discussed sexual offences, and there I raised, for example, the situation in which adults, four grown men, had for several years sexually abused children between the ages of 2 and 5 and they had had sexual intercourse with them several times. The sentence was less than four years, and if it comes with these discounts, then it is really sad. However, the message and the message of society, the message of the legislator, is what is right and what is wrong. In general, Finland could move more to a system where the court would always determine the starting point for its parole, as we would avoid such automation. I support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u155	Madam President! Thank you for these contributions. I would like to draw some attention to them. This is quite true, Mr Mäkelä, you mentioned that, unfortunately, we have the impression that the sale of the judgment will begin when the judgment is pronounced: these reductions will come, and then, as Mr Meri said, these reductions will also come. It is no wonder that, in accordance with Mr Huhtasaari, this Finnish legislation is being called a culture of delinquency. Mr President! I am a little concerned that we Members of Parliament very often respond in our speeches and in our electoral machines that we want to tighten up the criminal code — especially when crimes are committed against children. However, we have not actually done so during the last parliamentary term, for example, when this same subject was also discussed. Now that the Finns, the National Coalition Party and the Centre are in the government, I hope and want to believe that these speeches will now be put into action. In that sense, it is important to keep this issue on the table now and to get this to be reflected on through the Minister in a working group of some kind, in which the correction of this law should be carried out in this direction. Mr President! I believe that in Finland we can improve people's legal security and give the right signal by taking these serious crimes seriously and we are going to step up their penalties seriously. Since I myself have also been involved in criminal youth for 10 years in my former profession — those who have been released from prison — I know that those who commit these crimes also want to see tougher sentences in this sector. They themselves say that there are far too small sentences in Finland when, for example, a friend is killed or sexual offences are committed. I have encountered a number of such people who are committing crimes themselves, but who also want to see these tightened up. So if those who commit crimes, as well as legislators and public opinion, the whole population wants to be tightened up, then it would be shameful if this Parliament did not do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u156	Mr President! Representative Meri raised the issue of sexual offences against young children and the reduction in the number of sexual offences received from them. The only fair procedure would be a major increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u157	Mr President! In addition to what I have just said: Now that these court liberals do not appear here to justify these low penalties, let us say that there has sometimes been a view that this would lead to a reduction in the sentence to the cost of sitting in prison. But this argument is totally unacceptable in the sense that, now that we have asylum seekers, the money will be dug up to maintain asylum seekers. So we also have to dig up the money to keep the criminals in prison.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u158	Mr President! Last week I was on the panel to discuss these sexual crimes, particularly concerning them and their punishments. There was then a person like this from Crimea who was drawing this project from this judicial investigation. He then presented such diagrams that the hardening of punishments has not usually reduced crime. But then there were all the crimes in that chart, so I couldn't tell what crimes it was about. At the end of the panel, however, for some reason, we ended up discussing the fact that, in the past, physical abuse of children has been criminalised here — some years ago, now I do not remember exactly when it was — and then he said that it did help, they have been greatly reduced. Then I said, well, now you already have an example of the fact that the criminalisation of an act or the hardening of its punishment will change people's behaviour. That I thought he was contradictory in it. He was doing the justice research, and somehow it was just a feeling that, hopefully, now there is not too much attitude when it was thought in advance that severe punishment would not help. I do not believe that if you give 100 years in prison, anything will help — then you will commit even harder crimes so that at least you do not get caught. Of course it has to make sense. But if, for example, a person repeats crime, especially sexual crimes against children or other homicides, then it is also a good question that he should be in a nursing home. Should we risk the safety of the rest of us? I know that many people are opposed to this idea of mine, but there would then be periodic tests to see if he has recovered. First, imprisonment and then treatment, because I think it is more important that we, who want to be left alone, be left alone, and then those who cannot live by the rules of society are out of the game. This is how I see it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-21-ps-41.u159	Madam President! Mr Meri mentioned this point that this is often justified by the fact that the number of crimes does not decrease or that the person does not necessarily get better from it, no matter how long he is in prison. This same argument was heard here last season when this same legal content was discussed and the current opposition was in the government. At the time there were a lot of defenders who said just these arguments that the number of crimes would not be reduced if they sat longer there in prison. Mr Mäkelä also said the same argument many times that it will cost more and we do not have the money to spend on people sitting in prison too much. This time these people are not here to present these positions, perhaps the resources ended in the maternity package debate. In that sense it is sad that we do not get this proper debate and debate about whether this kind of legislation should be done or not. I believe, however, that with the signature of 28 representatives of the Finnish Parliament, this bill will be successful. A clear majority's line in public opinion also wants to see stricter laws. I would also like to remind you that Finland has the most liberal legal interpretation in the Nordic countries in serious crimes. By comparison, the Swedish Penal Code brottsbalken does not know at all even the real first-timers as quickly as half the time of the sentence and the one-third parole, but as a rule of this law in Sweden, it is necessary to have at least two thirds of the term of imprisonment before parole is granted. In the light of the fact that we have often looked at the West as a model, we would like to see a model in these areas for us to take this line of tightening up and for us to get a clear signal, above all to the victims and the families of the victims, that the legislation guarantees and wants to support them in the suffering they have suffered. Madam President! That concludes my speech and I hope,
