ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 29 November 2016. With the support of Krista Kiuru Kari Uotila, the debate has been followed by Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements. Proposals shall be put to the vote separately against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 29 November 2016. In the debate, Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, has tabled an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u4	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u5	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 29 November 2016 Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected. Sari Tanus, supported by Sari Essayah, has proposed that the 1st bill be rejected. In addition, Anneli Kiljunen has tabled a proposal for a statement under protest 1 which has not, however, been supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u6	Proposals for rejection of legislative proposals shall be put to the vote. Aino-Kaisa Pekonen's proposal to reject all legislative proposals and then Sari Tanus' proposal is put to the vote that 1. the draft law is rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u7	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 29 November 2016. In the debate, Anna Kontula Aino-Kaisa, supported by Mr Pekonen, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected. Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Tarja Filatov, has submitted a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1. In addition, Sari Tanus, supported by Sari Essayah, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u8	The vote will take place first on the adoption or rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u9	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements. Proposals shall be put to the vote separately against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u10	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 29 November 2016. With the support of Katja Taimela Satu Hassi, she has tabled a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1. With the support of Joakim Strand, Mr Adlercreutz has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u11	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Proposals shall be put to the vote separately against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u12	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 34/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 29 November 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u13	Mr President! In accordance with our objection, I propose that the first draft law be adopted otherwise, in accordance with the committee's report, with the exception of Chapter 11, Section 1 deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u14	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljunen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u15	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Tuula Haatainen, has proposed that Chapter 1, Section 1, of the draft law: deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u16	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on the Future and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion by 15 March 2017. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u17	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing a global and even fundamental transformation of the energy economy. The Government's report, the national climate strategy, the energy strategy now under discussion, sets out the main guidelines for Finland's energy transition to 2030. At the same time, we will look even further: the implementation of the 2030 targets will be a sustainable bridge to a completely emission-free and carbon-neutral energy economy in Finland in 2050. This strategy consists of three scenarios: firstly, a baseline scenario illustrating the inadequacy of existing measures in order to achieve the energy and climate objectives; secondly, a policy scenario that is a 2030 scenario, which measures new policy measures to achieve the climate and energy targets set; thirdly, a review up to 2050 of measures to achieve full, 100% energy use and production, based on renewable energy production. The Energy and Climate Strategy implements the Government Programme and relies on the common objectives of the European Union and Finland’s international commitments. The strategy is also internationally ambitious and in line with the Commission's winter package on the energy and climate package adopted today. Based on the report, the share of renewable energy will be increased to more than half of final energy use in 2030. The energy use of oil will be halved compared to 2005. Overall, transport plays a very central, if not the most important, role in reducing emissions from the so-called burden sharing sector. This report states that transport emissions will be reduced by around half, i.e. by 50% from 2005 to 2030. In fact, the need to reduce emissions is so great that the debate on the role of biofuels and electric cars in transport is pointless. Both are needed almost the maximum quantity that we are able to achieve, and that of course means, among other things, the construction of several biorefineries in Finland in order to achieve this goal, and that means jobs and opportunities for entrepreneurship throughout the country. This report also sets out a major target of 250,000 for electric cars and a target of 50,000 for gas cars. At the same time, the obligation to mix biofuels in road transport will be increased to 30% of the energy content, which is quite Europe's top priority. As I have just said, the EU Commission is today publishing its own energy policy winter package — in fact, at this very time, the present press conference in Brussels at the moment. From Finland’s point of view, it is essential that the zero emission of biomass is maintained, which is now secured in the published package. For years, Finland has also pursued an EU-wide policy for biofuels in transport, which is now bearing fruit, as the winter package proposes a distribution obligation for renewable fuels in transport. We also need a cost-effective, secure electricity system and, above all, a functioning electricity market to support this. For Finland, a particular critical issue is the adequacy of electrical power during peak consumption due to our rather exceptional climate conditions compared to the rest of Europe. In the long transition period towards a fully renewable energy economy, nuclear power also plays a role in domestic electricity generation. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 and 15 January last year. on the day we received a strong reminder that during the harsh frosts our own electricity generation is not enough. Under those circumstances, we were too much, even more than a third, on imported electricity. This is also why developing the Nordic electricity market is a top priority for Finland. A planned project between Northern Finland and Northern Sweden to establish a transfer link is necessary to ensure sufficient interconnections. This work is now on the move between Kraftnät in Sweden and Fingrid in Finland, and last time we had a very good discussion with our Nordic colleagues here in Helsinki last week at a meeting of Nordic Energy Ministers. Finland’s goal is to have this transfer link to the European Union’s priority list next year, 2017 so that its implementation can start as soon as possible. The solution for the transitional period will be technologically neutral tenders to provide electricity generation support for the most cost-effective and competitive renewable electricity production investments. More specifically, in 2018-20, competitive production aid for renewable electricity will be introduced. With this aid, a maximum of 2 terawatt-hours of production can be built over those years. Similarly, investment aid is primarily targeted at commercialisation of new energy technologies and the construction of biofuels, biogas and distribution networks. In combined heat and power production, forest chips and secondary flows of the forest industry, such as bark and biting, are the priority. According to the report, by 2030, Finland will phase out the use of coal for energy purposes. As a precautionary measure, security of supply and supply of energy and exceptional situations will be taken into account. The draft law on the abolition of the use of coal for energy purposes will be prepared with transitional periods during this term of government. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, when I said that our energy strategy here is ambitious internationally, I meant, among other things, this abandonment of the use of coal for energy purposes. I am convinced that over the coming decades this will be estimated to be almost as important in the energy economy as in the democratic sphere the exercise of women's right to vote in Finland in 1906, which showed the direction of the rest of the world and which we are all rightly proud of. We are the forerunners of a sustainable energy economy, and it is not worth keeping the candle under stable conditions, but boldly bringing this out in the world and thus laying the foundations for exporting Finnish energy and environmental technologies. A 100-year-old Finland is built not with nihilism, but with an open-minded attitude and healthy self-confidence, including a more self-sufficient, secure and sustainable energy economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u18	Mr President! Climate change is true, and our joint task is to stop it. We are the first generation to come up with solutions, and we are also the last generation to be able to make a change. Because of the use of fossil fuels, ocean temperatures are rising, polar ice caps are melting and heat and drought cycles are destroying hundreds of people. Change of course must take place now. This is about the future of our children and grandchildren. It's time for action. Mr President! With this programme, Finland shows leadership. We shoulder our responsibilities internationally and by promoting the bioeconomy and circular economy, at the same time, we create clean solutions, jobs for Finns and livelihoods for the whole country. The central-driven government quickly responds to the objectives of the Paris climate agreement with concrete actions. Fossil import fuels will be transferred to domestic renewable energy. The use of imported oil will be halved and Finland will be the first to ban coal use in the world by 2030. It will be possible to switch to renewable energy by 2050. We will be both more self-sufficient and economically stronger in the future. We move from a centralised fossil model to the whole of Finland's renewable energy model. Energy euros and jobs are worth keeping in Finland. Mr President! The energy and climate strategy guides the movement and transportation of the future, construction, housing and electricity and heat production. The solutions are bio-energy, energy from agricultural, municipal and industrial waste, solar and wind energy. The diversity of forests must be taken care of. With the use of forests, it is advisable to use the side fractions that come into use in the use of energy. Log wood goes for processing and wood construction, side streams such as shells and logging residues are used for energy production. Energy needs can be accommodated in the frame of the national forestry strategy. In addition to pulp, paper and wood construction, wood is increasingly made into medicines and textiles and plastic products replaced with wood. The allegations of a winddown are false. Wind power will continue to be supported, but the level of support will be brought to the same level as other energy sources. Mr President! Households and businesses will be able to act as electricity producers in the future, and fluctuations in wind and solar energy production will not harm because smart grids and storage of electricity will ensure continuous access to electricity. It is possible that the development and lower prices of battery and energy storage technologies will revolutionise the energy market in an unpredictable way. Movement and transport of goods will change. Automatisation of traffic is increasing and the goal is to have 250,000 electric cars and at least 50,000 gas-powered cars in Finland in 15 years' time. The potential for biogas is enormous. In cities short trips are made by bicycle or walking more than by car. The vision has already partly materialised in Helsinki with the arrival of city bikes. The energy and climate strategy also means good things from the point of view of public health. Mr President! Finland will hold the Presidency of both the Arctic Council and the Nordic Council next year. It gives us a better chance of promoting these objectives together with other countries. The emission-free Nordic region is the central objective, and it is possible to achieve it very quickly if you want it to. The energy and climate strategy is an ambitious and realistic approach to this moment. Finland has its own strengths in the current energy transition. Finnish cleantech and clean energy solutions companies receive a backrest for their operations and product development for export. The central parliamentary group thanks the government for its excellent work and encourages the rapid implementation of the strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u19	Mr President! Our country's energy policy suffered from inconsistency and unpredictability during the last parliamentary term. We were already able to verify that Finland's energy policy at the time did not serve the overall interests of society, because our energy policy was then based on coal-based thinking and insufficiently studied knowledge. Our energy policy has now become, instead of coopting decision-making, sustainable predictability over the parliamentary term. An excellent example of this is the recent guidelines of the current government on national energy and climate strategy. Mr President! The Finnish Parliament Group sees that the position of domestic energy sources, such as peat and small wood energy, should not be undermined. Similarly, we need to think about energy in a whole new way. The spruce branch must be seen as a chemical, biting and chipping as biofuels, water as an energy source. Fortunately, all of this has been a priori taken into account in the Government's energy and climate strategy currently under discussion. In addition to this, the Finnish Parliament sees that using domestic energy and developing the export industry based on it, we can significantly adjust our trade balance. A substantial increase in the domestic level of energy production will contribute to our country's economic growth and generate tens of thousands of new jobs. These jobs would mainly be created in sparsely populated areas, which would contribute to maintaining the vitality and population of rural areas. The Finnish Parliament Group welcomes the approach that new wind power support solutions will not be granted now, but will be independently investigated before the decision on the extension is made. Mr President! In the future, the Finns of Finland want to pay attention to increasing the construction of wood. Finland could be the guide for wood construction throughout Europe. The sector is an important factor, it employs a lot, either directly or indirectly. Products made from wood are durable and renewable and have a positive impact on the carbon balance. This objective also very much supports climate policy guidelines on what the new Government's energy and climate strategy aims to achieve. Mr President! Recent uncertainty in international politics has reminded everyone of the importance of energy self-sufficiency also from the point of view of our security of supply. Therefore, a substantial increase in energy self-sufficiency should be taken as a key objective of energy policy and as a long-term priority. This has now been done in the government, and we are pleased with that. It should also be remembered that Finland is particularly dependent on the availability of energy at affordable prices for cold weather and long distances. Fortunately, this aspect is also part of the now reformed guidelines. Mr President! Our energy policy is also strongly influenced by international emission targets and various agreements. An example of this is the recent global climate agreement reached at the Paris climate conference, the central objective of which is to limit the global average temperature rise to less than 2°C. This policy is suitable for both Finns and other government partners. Instead, the proposal for the burden-sharing sector, which came from the EU Commission in the summer of the Paris Agreement, is no longer appropriate as such, since we believe that the Commission's proposal imposes an excessively high 39% emission reduction obligation on Finland, which, if implemented, will increase the costs of Finnish industry and thus reduce employment in the sector. We therefore consider it important for the government to use all possible means to make full use of the flexibility mechanisms in the future before the Commission's proposal can even be considered for adoption. Mr President! The Government’s goal to increase the cleantech sector is very ambitious but necessary. It is the home market that plays a crucial role in this. It is clear that by taking care of energy production,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u20	Mr President! Finland wants to be at the forefront in order to prevent global warming by more than 2 degrees. That is why this strategy has a strong focus on renewable energy and new clean energy systems. You can say that some decisions are truly revolutionary. One of them is to stop using coal by 2030. Even a greater decision and goal is to halve the use of oil at the same time. At the same time, however, the government wants to ensure the availability of energy in Finland from a competitive point of view and to take care of the competitive price of energy. The strategy has become more important than before for exports of clean technology, where Finland has significant expertise. Mr President! The lion's share of the new emission reduction targets will be taken on board by transport, although its own work is also in real estate and agriculture. In Finland, industry has already become one of the most energy-efficient in the world. In the next twenty years, the clean energy and circular economy markets will amount to up to EUR 15,000 billion worldwide. If we are at the forefront of energy renewal, the world will indeed be open to new energy concepts. Now is the time to think about how we can get as much Finnish business out of this global energy transition as possible. Mr President! In the reform of the transport sector, the solution from the state was a requirement for a 30% blending obligation for biofuels by 2030. The consequences of the decision can be very significant. Today, more than 60% of the energy consumption of imported oil is used in transport. Energy is imported to Finland net of EUR 6.8 billion per year. Perhaps in the future these euros will be paid even more to the domestic biofuel industry, which is an excellent thing. Not all companies in the forest industry may be very excited about where the tree goes. However, studies have now been carried out that, with some 68 million cubic metres of wood currently being used, about 4 million cubic metres would be used for biofuels and a sustainable felling limit would be about 80 million cubic metres. In other words, within the limits of sustainable forest use, it would be possible to involve this new business. If we are also aware of the challenges facing the forest side of the decision and resolve them properly, we can see a significant increase in the obligation to mix biofuels as an opportunity. And just as the Minister said about this winter package, for example, this is an interesting decision for the Commission. However, I believe that the future of biofuels lies in air transport, in the energy production of communities, and if Finland is now creating this pilot market as an example for itself, and we may have huge opportunities in the future to be a global leader in new biofuels. Mr President! Biofuel, however, is only an intermediate step in the tank of at least normal passenger cars and perhaps only the possibility of forested countries. It is estimated that up to 80% of all cars purchased in the EU will be electric cars in 2030. The new energy and climate strategy also has a strong commitment to electrification and automation of transport. The goal is to get up to 250,000 new electric cars to Finland by 2030. And if we look again at the global market in this business, it has been estimated that it will amount to up to 3400 billion a year if we again set an example to the world in these matters. It is estimated that electronic transport will bring more than one million jobs to Europe by 2030. We could make a significant contribution to the larger proportion of these jobs. Mr President! The EU is moving towards a consumer-oriented energy policy. A consumer-oriented energy policy is often linked to small-scale electricity production, both wind and sun. Of course, the wind and the sun are not even energy sources: the wind does not provide electricity, if not the wind, the sun does not always shine. At the same time, however, we cannot underestimate the importance of these energy sources. For humans, energy change must genuinely show itself as an easy solution that is economically sound and at the same time an act for a clean earth. Then people go along with these changes. Mr President! The future is already visible. There will be much more players in the energy system than there is now. The energy palette is diversifying. Clean energy becomes the competitive power of industry. Consumers will become part of the energy system. The energy system will become part of the Internet of Things. Finland has the opportunity to specialise
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u21	I have to put the club on the table at the latest when there are 15 to 20 seconds — or, as you just said, 40 seconds — beyond the agreed time limit. I would ask that this agreed rule of play of 5 minutes be respected as well as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u22	Mr President! The year 2016 will be in history not only with the Paris climate agreement but also with the highest amount of CO2 ever measured in the atmosphere. There is nothing less in our hands than the future of the earth and mankind. The agreement on the climate agreement is an important step, but it is only the beginning of climate work. To stop the rise in the average temperature of the earth to 1.5 degrees Celsius requires drastic action. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group expected a more vision from the national energy and climate strategy of what Finland could achieve at its best. Already in Finland, half of the energy comes from emission-free sources, such as renewable energy and nuclear power, and we are also in line with the objectives adopted in the EU. However, these will not be enough, but will be new openings for sustainable renewable energy production as much as is needed to reduce consumption. Mr President! Energy is a key element in limiting CO2 emissions. The government's objective that the long-term energy system should become carbon neutral and be based on renewable energy sources must be supported. Halving the energy use of imported oil and abandoning coal are good objectives. However, we have to ask: how does this line fit in favour of peat when, at its worst, it produces more emissions than coal? The change in energy systems in the world has begun. Finland must be at the forefront of development. The proposal includes support for renewable energy sources through a technologically neutral call for tenders — good. However, the volume of energy to be competitive, 2 terawatt hours, is far too low. The sun, wind and various geothermal energy sources are the future. Intelligent energy networks and the development of service business not only enable energy-efficient solutions but also savings for consumers. Energy efficiency needs to be improved. Finland’s investment in comparison of energy efficiency is poor. Finland must develop and introduce new technologies. This also creates a reference market for exports and work for Finns. This must be at the heart of Finland’s climate business. The cuts in government funding for education, research and innovation are striking these goals. The report relies heavily on forest biomass. Politics and science are still discussing the long-term emission level of bio-energy in forests as a whole. In the light of today's information, the Commission gives the green light to Finland's objectives. Forests and wood-based raw materials must be seen as an increasingly diverse substitute for oil for new high-value products. On the other hand, it makes sense to use side streams and forest stars as bioenergy, making climate impacts the most advantageous. The starting point must be that, with the addition of fellings, protection is also increased and diversity is ensured. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Metso needs funding now. Mr President! 90% of emissions from domestic transport are generated by road transport. In order to reduce emissions, the government will increase the blending obligation for biofuels to 30%, with a target of 40% for renewables. This alone is not enough. The willingness of motorists and the ability to pay the costs remain open. The rest of the world is heading in the direction of electric cars, and the change in transport is very rapid. Finland must be open to new solutions. Wrong solutions are difficult and expensive to reverse. Transport must be seen as a system in which seamless travel chains and intelligent transport networks enable low-emission mobility. The development of rail transport is an effective and consumer-friendly way of reducing transport emissions. In addition to building zero and plus-energy houses, transport arrangements are key to reducing CO2 emissions from housing. It is a pleasure to note that the government speaks in a report on urban policy and in favour of intensive urban construction. Low carbon public transport, walking and cycling are climate-friendly modes of mobility, and urban planning that enables physical activity is also public health work. Mr President! Saving the Earth is possible. It requires strong measures to stop warming. Today we are discussing the future and the conditions in which our children and grandchildren live.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u23	Mr President! There are many good things in the Government's strategy, but it loses the best opportunities for climate and employment. We Greens will present our own energy vision this weekend, which will increase renewable energy twice as fast as the government, create more new jobs and shift to carbon neutrality in the 30s and not until the second half of the century. At the Marrakesh climate conference, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said that renewable energy is becoming the biggest market in history. We Greens want Finland to be at the forefront of global energy renovation. Climate change is progressing at a staggering pace. This year will almost certainly record a new temperature record, as did last year and last year. In the Paris climate agreement, we are committed to curbing climate change to 1.5 degrees. All countries must tighten up their targets. Regrettably, the government has no idea what's going on here. However, climate change does not wait, it does not hold negotiations, it only follows the laws of nature. It is necessary to ban hard coal. It would also be logical to stop burning peat, which is worse than coal for the climate, and its harvesting spoils water bodies. The previous government decided to reduce peat burning in a systematic way. The Sipilä government wants to increase peat burning in the next few years and continue its tax support. With renewable energy, the government is most anxious to drive the most problematic bioenergy for the environment. Better alternatives to climate, health and workplaces are wind and solar power, electronic transport and smart grids. The House of the Future is part of the smart grid. Some of the equipment, such as ground heat pumps and boilers, participates in electricity demand response, i.e. consumes electricity when it is cheap. This is how four birds are struck with one stone: cutting emissions, peak electricity consumption, required power plant power and electricity billing for consumers. Electric car batteries can act as backup power: you can charge electricity when it's cheap and sell it at a time of peak consumption. Unfortunately, the report ignores the smart grid by mentioning it. In transport, the main focus of the government is on biofuels and gas. Better for climate and competitiveness is to electrify passenger transport as quickly as possible, the efficiency of electric motors is so much better than the internal combustion engine. Biofuels are needed, but their raw materials are limited, including waste. It is worth saving them for heavy traffic and machinery. The Government’s target of 250,000 electric cars for 2030 is equivalent to only two years of car sales. However, prices for electric cars are falling so that, according to some estimates, in 10 to 15 years' time, other types of passenger cars will no longer be produced. The network company Fingrid has proposed rules that only large units of reserve power could be sold, i.e. that everything that is possible for private people and families, such as electric cars and solar batteries, should be excluded. This would be a blow to the smart grid and also to public participation in climate protection. We create new jobs best when we develop know-how and products that have a growing global market, such as wind and solar energy, smart grids, virtual power stations and new storage solutions for electrical energy. These are the very things the government is least aware of. At the same time, Finland is full of good IT experts who are able to develop these solutions. Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u24	Mr President! Reading the government's energy and climate strategy reminds me of a familiar fairy tale about the Emperor's new clothes. Has no one dared to say that although this contains good openings, this is not enough to combat climate change? This strategy should show how to resolve the climate crisis, but it is too ambitious for that. The strategy has a time span for climate action in 2030 and 2050 when, in reality, we need to reduce climate emissions much faster. Mr President! The main issue mark of this strategy is the increasing use of forests. The strategy increases the working pressure of our forests and reduces carbon sinks by up to half. The government seems to solve all the problems by increasing the use of wood, and it will simply not succeed. Firstly, there is not enough wood for everything, secondly, biodiversity is at risk, and forest bioeconomy is not even sufficiently reducing climate emissions. The Left Alliance aims to improve the sustainable use of natural resources. The objective of forest protection must be an internationally agreed 17 % area and biodiversity must be improved in economic forests. The growth of the carbon stock of forests can be achieved through both forest management and the preservation of the forest area. None of these objectives contradicts the fact that wood raw material can be used and forest owners can use their forests. It is most reasonable to use wood primarily for high value added products, so that we can use our high expertise, create new business activities and work, and tie coal to wooden buildings, for example. The secondary flows of forestry can and must be channelled into the bioeconomy, but care must be taken to ensure that the raw material is correctly targeted for the national economy and emissions. The Government has stated that coal will be disposed of by 2030. Decarbonisation is an extremely important and necessary objective, but coal must be abandoned even more quickly. A big blind spot on the government's turf. The climate emissions of peat are similar to those of coal. The government is not now replacing the abandonment of coal by increasing the use of peat, is it? Mr President! The objectives will not be achieved without a significant increase in renewable energy. In order to ensure this, social efforts are needed. Wind power is an important part of emission-free energy production, as stated in the strategy. However, the government has excluded wind power until its health effects are investigated. People’s concerns and ills must be taken seriously, but fear should not be fomented. Wind power has been studied and studied continuously, and this report has a strong political tone. This study shall not lead to any delay in the growth of renewable energy. Above all, our energy system needs to be reconsidered. Each of us can be not only a consumer of energy but also a producer of it. It is therefore necessary to support decentralized small-scale production. With demand and smart grids, we can significantly reduce the amount of energy required. We need to invest in society so that the markets for smart systems are expanding from industry to households as well. There is also a great potential for new jobs. Jobs and the fight against climate change are often contrasted. He often hears the claim that the fight against climate change deprives Finns of jobs and opportunities for economic growth. That is not true. Stopping climate change is in the interests of a Finnish employee. The position of workers is not threatened by windmills or explosive bats, not by solar cells, electric cars or air heat pumps. The position of employees is weakened by the short-sighted maximization of profits, underpaid earnings and a business structure that does not meet the needs of the future. An important step towards a sustainable business structure for the climate is to clean up, not increase, harmful business subsidies. Business subsidies should be subject to a comprehensive review and a responsible plan to redirect harmful subsidies towards the development of energy technologies and environmental innovations. Mr President! The energy and climate strategy deserves praise for recognising the role of transport and its potential in emission reductions. Unfortunately, however, halving the carbon sink of forests causes more emissions than transport and agriculture saves together. We can't afford that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u25	Mr President! Världen står inför en en energiomisk förändring, rain näringsminister Olli Rehn när han i förra veckan presenterade regeringens energi- och klimatpolitiska strategy. Sin stil trogen använde Rehn inte överord, men ha kunge mycket väven ha taat om revolution. För att få till stånd utsläppsminskningar, för att först uppfylla klimamålen 2030 och sedan 2050, är trafikens andel stor. När manläser strategistin undrar man om regeringens ambitionsnivå är något för låg när det gäller till exempel övergången till elbilar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u26	Mr President! The report speaks correctly and beautifully of doubling funding for research, development and innovation in clean technologies. Unfortunately, however, the actions of the government conflict with the objective. The energy and climate sector is affected by many other areas of technology, in fact almost all technological advances since material ethics. The government has made a big mistake in reducing research, development and innovation funds from Tekes and VTT. In this year's budget, the reduction amounted to EUR 35 million from last year and to EUR 54 million from next year if the proposals for amendments by the Christian Democrats are not implemented. Finland should be at the forefront of research and development right now. Digitalisation, artificial intelligence and robotisation are opening up entirely new opportunities for energy saving. Ministers, right now is the time to invest in research, development and innovation in order to obtain new patents, new companies and export products that are useful for climate and energy production and use. One important policy in the report, from an economic and environmental point of view, is to increase the use of forests. This must be done in a sustainable way for biodiversity. We consider it important to increase the related research and monitoring and to implement the Metso programme effectively. Energy use must be directed only at those side currents generated in forestry for which there is no better use. We stress the need to reach an agreement with the EU Commission that the carbon sink in our forests is maintained at an adequate level and that it is calculated in a scientifically valid manner. In the production of bioenergy, the Christian Democratic Parliament supports the emphasis on biogas, which also contributes to reducing pressure on the use of forest energy. The objective of the report to increase the use of biogas is too modest. Biogas is a better source of energy than electricity for the climate, including transport. Gasum Oy estimates the potential of biogas to be 15 terawatt hours, which is one third of our country's natural gas use. We need a network of biogas plants on farms. The status of eutrophication water bodies would also be improved if reeds and aquatic plants were used as biogas. The Government is already behind schedule in promoting gas-driving, and the measures set out in the report cannot move on to the next period. We have proposed halving the car and vehicle tax and abolishing the power tax on biogas cars. The increase in gas transport must be based on biogas rather than on fossil natural gas. We have taken a legislative initiative, among other things, to provide investment grants for the construction of biogas production plants with the same share of the investment as for example for the construction of barns. The production of biogas reduces the need for artificial fertilisers, which is also good for the climate. Biogas on farms can also be used to warm up nearby settlements, and VTT’s project to turn biogas on farms into protein feed and bioplastics, for example. Mr President! We welcome the decision in principle to phase out the use of coal by 2030, as well as the decision to halve the use of fossil oil. Could we make these decisions at a quick pace? However, we would like the government to present a solution to how, for example, the heat energy needed by the Helsinki Metropolitan Area is produced. For the time being, peat production should be supported instead of coal, but peat production must be limited to mires that have already been transformed into sources of emissions and have thus also lost their natural value. The report leaves a significant part of the cost of the measures beyond 2020 when the current government will no longer be responsible for them. Mr President! The Christian Democrats believe it is important to move towards climate-neutral Finland in a systematic and long-term manner using the latest information and best means and also in an optimal way for our economic development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u27	Thank you. Group speeches have been made and at this stage I will give a brief three-minute speech to Mr Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u28	Mr President! I would like to thank the group speakers for their substantive debate and to interpret that these contributions provide broad support in Parliament for the main line towards a zero-emission, renewable, sustainable energy economy in the 2030 process. I take the view that there is a particularly strong support for moving rapidly towards more renewable energy use, investing in energy efficiency and disengaging ourselves from coal energy use, as well as increasing the share of biofuels in transport. It is very important that we have a broad national consensus on these issues and I appreciate the fact that Parliament is ready to apply for this. I think that some of the speeches rightly stressed that the energy economy should be seen as a system, that smart grids should be emphasised, that improved demand response in the electricity market and consumer involvement should improve energy efficiency. That is precisely the case, and energy efficiency is a very central part of this energy strategy, which shows in various points that energy efficiency as a whole is important in terms of electricity, heat, transport. Combined heat and power CHP is already our traditional strength, which is worth sticking to, but the energy system also needs to be developed more flexibly. Energy efficiency agreements and audits, which work well in Finland, will continue and be developed with municipalities and businesses, and the role of the consumer will certainly be emphasised in this future. A couple of comments at this stage: firstly, with regard to transport, some speakers criticised the emphasis placed on biofuels in transport. In fact, it is very important that we do not put electric cars and biofuels against each other, because there is indeed a need for a maximum number of both in order to achieve our climate objectives. Passenger car transport will certainly become more electric in the future, and Finland will be at the forefront of development with the target of 250,000 electric cars. This means in practice that between 2017 and 2030, an average of about one in five new cars — i.e. 20,000 cars a year — would be an electric car. This would mean that in 2030 about 10% of the car fleet would be electric cars — a very ambitious target, but still "only" 10%. This means that, in that situation, 90% would continue to run on combustion engines, and therefore the core to achieve our climate objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u29	Now we're going to go to some sort of debatation. I would ask the representatives who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u30	Mr President! For peat use, the strategy does not increase peat use by 2030 but has 15 terawatt-hours, which is almost half as much as in 2010 — an obligation to make such an observation on this point. On biofuels, however, it can be said that it is a circular economy at its best if we consider that black liquor, sawdust, bark, branches, crowns and, in any case, leftovers from forest management fellings are used specifically as biofuel. The Government’s line is progressive if it is thought that the reduction of every percentage point in oil imports will improve Finland’s trade balance by at least 5 per cent. These are quite the figures, and when the government is strongly on the employment front, we have the same line here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u31	Mr President! Although the minister saw something good, praise from the opposition, this constant complaint — the direction of one opposition party — is incomprehensible, while at the same time the Germans are ready to build ships and manufacture cars for the whole world market in Finland, as well as the Chinese are planning a factory that uses Lapland’s forest resources in Kemijärvi. This was not the case in the last period when 100,000 new unemployed were born in our country. Last season, under the leadership of the Greens, they wanted to drive domestic energy production down and turn all peat production areas into a kingdom of bugs. Similarly, the carbon sink of forests was turned into emissions in order to make the EU tougher sanctions for Finland. Fortunately, the Germans and the Chinese do not listen to the Finnish interest groups and the opposition. Finland will rise, but not because of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u32	The next item is Mr Jaskari. — — — — Let's take this first debatable round with the help of group speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I would have taken up two points in the comments made by the honourable opposition. On the other hand, a brief comment on the left-wing side: Mr Modig said that the government will solve everything by increasing the use of wood. It's $250,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u34	Mr President! In its report, the Government has also briefly reviewed what Finland would require a 100% renewable energy system. This will allow for the rapid development of wind and solar technologies and their increased competitiveness. Now that this has been discussed, however, Finland seems to have a very one-sided answer: bioenergy. Among other things, one of the best energy experts in the city centre, Mr Mauri Pekkarinen, has said that many people seem to believe that bio-raw materials solve almost all energy needs in Finland, but even if the forest industry were to be stopped and the wood turned into energy, it would only be enough for a good half of the annual energy consumption. For this reason too, I am now calling for the other means that technological development will enable us to have a genuine Finland at the top of the line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u35	Mr President! First of all, when he said that Finland is the most ambitious in the world in promoting electric cars, I would now simply like to say to Minister Rehn that, in the Netherlands, we are planning to ban petrol and diesel vehicles, sell new cars in 2025, as well as in Norway, and the German Bundesrat has taken the view that in 2030 Germany will do the same. This sounds more ambitious to me than the planning of the Finnish Government. I would also like to point out that we are currently paying some EUR 1 billion in support of fossil fuels, such as diesel, light fuel oil and peat, in the form of lower tax rates. The government won't say anything about ending these. To Mr Jaskar, I would say that the Finnish Climate Panel and the Finnish Environment Agency have told us that the plans for increasing fellings mean:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u36	Mr President! There is therefore a lack of concrete means. This increase in electric cars mentioned by Mr Jaskar also lacks concrete means of achieving it. One concrete measure would be a carbon tax. With this we could steer production and consumption in a low-emission direction. Why not extend it to as many commodities as possible? It would also be appropriate to impose carbon tariffs on the EU's external borders or countries outside the Paris Agreement in order to prevent carbon leakage, especially because Donald Trump, elected President of the United States, threatened, at least during his campaign, that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement. I would have asked the government: are you prepared to drive a carbon tariff in the EU that takes into account CO2 emissions from the manufacture of the goods if the United States decides to leave Paris? I would also have asked Minister Rehn how big you think the carbon bubble risk of Finnish investments is. Given that, in the light of science, we know that between 60 and 80 % of the known reserves must not be used, investment in oil and coal could therefore be lost in the expected returns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u37	Mr President! The so-called traditional electricity generation has fallen further and renewable production is not enough to cover the deficit, at least not yet. However good neighbors may be, it is worth keeping the switch as close to itself as possible in winter and crisis situations. Among other things, the latest newsletter by Fingrid openly states that there is a high risk of electricity shortages on a tight freezing day. However, the Government's energy and climate strategy did not find any guidelines on the adequacy of power. Minister, could you open your thoughts a little more on the efficiency risk of freezing days and tell us how the new connections between Finland and Sweden are progressing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u38	Mr President! The raw materials of biogas, such as manure, protection zone grass, straw, food production and practice waste, when rotting or decaying produce climate gases, so the use of biogas reduces climate gases. These raw materials should not be transported around, but should be used on the ground. The production of biogas is also based on the utilisation of the natural resources of the farm's own and neighbouring regions. Not only will it reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it will increase energy self-sufficiency and reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and at the same time produce the fertilizers needed by the farm, reducing the need for artificial fertilisers — which is also good for the climate. Minister, I would like to know why the government is still procrastinating in its decisions to promote the construction of decentralised small biogas plants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u39	We're going to continue the debate now. We will continue to do so for perhaps 15 to 20 minutes, and then it will be granted to those ministers who are most anxious to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u40	Mr President! There has been too much concern here about what further use of forests may cause. The further growth of Finnish forests and the maintenance of health status have been studied in decades. In addition, society has been involved in maintaining the good condition of forests by providing resources, and so the motivation of people who have been responsible for Finnish forests has been quite high. As a result, we have had harvest savings and reserves, and now it is just a matter of mobilising this resource. We have very good forest legislation that encourages diversity and sustains it, which will continue to influence the use of Finnish forests to make sense that their health is taken care of and that diversity is as required by legislation. There's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u41	Mr President! As Minister Rehn said at the outset, there is a global energy transition and how Finland responds to this transformation is absolutely central. This strategy is a good one, the right answer. It is very important for us to maintain the potential of our domestic energy sources. We must use the energy sources we have, including peat and wood. Domestic energy production is important not only for security of supply but also for a sound economic basis. It is also very important that new wind support solutions are not made until we have research on what the health impact of this form of energy production will be. We certainly do not want to blindly support forms of industry or forms of energy production for which we do not yet know the exact data. As far as the overall strategy is concerned, it takes into account both environmental values, economic realism and employment issues very well, well balancedly and with merit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u42	And the reply to Mr Jaskar, who was eager to ask for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u43	Thank you, Mr President. A few comments again to the honourable opposition. Representative Modig said that there is concreteness on the bio side and on the forest side, but there are no electric cars, for example, adding concrete. There's a $100 million investment package planned here. A transport network company has been designed here, perhaps directed more towards the use of cars than to the taxation of cars themselves, so that the car fleet can be renewed — very concrete plans are reflected in the strategy. On the other hand, you could say to Mr Hassi that yes, it seems that temporarily the carbon sinks are shrinking somewhat but then grow. But it was now a question of how many percent of these carbon sinks are accepted. It is the fundamental scientific fact that the carbon sinks that the study states should be scientifically accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u44	Mr President! The Government's report on the national energy and climate strategy for 2030 is a lot of good, including the abandonment of coal, and these guidelines can be supported in this respect. But, Mr President, as Mrs Myller has said here, this Paris Agreement requires more and more of us and, on the other hand, Finland's own economy also requires more and more, and we need to see these as an opportunity. As far as the use of forests is concerned, we should be careful that this is a key resource for us, but that we see forest resources not just as forest bioenergy but as products of higher processing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u45	Mr President! We are faced with an extremely important and serious issue. Stopping climate change is the greatest challenge of our time and it is our historic responsibility. The main thrust of the strategy is good, but the problem is that it is largely a collection of policies and general expressions of will already decided upon. I missed concreteness and new tools, for example, as regards the new ways of supporting the purchase of electric cars or increasing decentralised energy production or improving the energy efficiency of old houses. But, Mr President, as has been said here, the strategy creates a lot of pressure on the energy use of forests. At the same time, the forest industry invests in Finland in a historical way. Concerns about the carbon sequestration and diversity and rational use of forests are genuine and relevant. I would like to ask: how to prevent the use of wood raw material suitable for industry
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u46	Mr President! We have one mode of transport which is difficult to tackle and which is air transport. Firstly, the emissions from air transport that reach the atmosphere at an altitude of 11 kilometres are three times more serious than those released here on the ground. But it is not the real problem either, but the fact that when air transport needs jet fuel, it is produced from crude oil. This is less than 10% of crude oil, and when jet fuel is needed, all the other fractions will remain in this distillation and will enter the market. They are not dumped on the ground, they go to the market, and when they enter the market they end up being burned. It is therefore essential that these aid decisions, which relate to bioenergy, take account of the fact that the maximum amount of it could be used in the air transport sector, because there is no solution in view where we could fly without fuel. On the other hand, road transport can be electrified, and biofuels in this respect
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u47	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for this preparation of the strategy. In all honesty, I have to say that I was a little concerned about the release of the EU winter package today, the same day, how this Finnish strategy is in line with the winter package, and today it can be said that it is very well aligned. It was a pleasure to hear the news of this winter package that it contains. In fact, the share of biofuels in transport is multiplied, and it is entirely in line with this line in Finland. But I would like to ask the Minister about two points: the draft law on the ban on the use of coal, when it comes to it, and what the Minister mentioned, about this security of supply and the protection of electricity production in the case of high consumption. What capacity even after this Act is still available in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u49	Mr President! The use of forests has been criticised here, and I must say that these government policies on sustainable forestry are also, in fact, based on those policies that have already been adopted in the past. For example, the national forestry strategy of the last period until 2025 states that the sustainable use of forests is possible by 80 million cubic metres per year. That is precisely the amount that this government is proposing. In fact, it is also the amount that Syke and Luke have said is to be implemented in a sustainable way, provided that the biodiversity of forests is taken care of and will certainly be taken care of, and that money will be found there in the future. I would have asked the government: how does this matter of obligation go on a larger scale? It is already being used by 25 EU countries, and Finland has also been active in Nordic cooperation in this area, and Sweden in particular has
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u50	Mr President! Whenever national policies and strategies are made, it is good to look genuinely at the strengths that Finland has, but also at the weaknesses. Everything we do needs to think globally, internationally. In the 1990s, Finland was a global pioneer in mobile phone technology. We created something that a lot of us need right now. Now that we are looking at the bioeconomy, biofuels, we can say that we are quite good at it globally. Unfortunately, however, it is not quite as a global market as it is an electronic transport sector. Minister, what measures are you now going to take to make this strategy visible in Finnish research, development and hence in employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u51	Mr President! This Government's climate and energy strategy is very good and ambitious, but there are of course some issues that need to be considered in advance. It was said here that there is no specificity here — this is a strategy, so that there obviously cannot be very much concreteness here, then it comes later in the form of detailed regulations and laws in this Parliament. But now, in this decade, we have raised the tax burden on mobility and transport by 1.8 billion, and one of us is also paying for this future pleasure, unfortunately this is what will happen. Have the ministers already considered how this bill will be targeted in Finland at different regions and groups of people, as it were, justly, that it will not be the case that a group of people or a region will have to pay unduly for being excluded from these reforms?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u52	Mr President! First of all, I would like to add a little bit to this speech by Mr Myller on the statements made by the President. Of course, it has been an energy policy package that requires nuclear power, hydropower, CHP co-production, wind power. It is quite clear that wood alone cannot be replaced, but this whole thing has been in the speeches of the President. Now we must congratulate the government: It was possible to make a historic decision to abandon coal and precisely when the Greens are not in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u57	Mr President! In particular, it was not my intention in any way to criticise the speech that I quoted, but rather to highlight the variety of issues we are dealing with. And once it has been said here that the renewable energy market is not in bioenergy on a global scale, we must also be at the forefront of this global market, but we must certainly ensure that our bio-knowledge is particularly focused there on the industry, from which these side streams will also be in bioenergy, and then, in particular, we must invest in the biofuels that will be needed in the future of the world in aircraft, ships and machinery.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u58	Mr President! We should now consider from a broader perspective how Finland can be a pioneer both in the fight against global warming and also in the construction of a sustainable economy, and look for this overall picture. And yes, I myself am a little disappointed that, although this government's programme had some good objectives — this halving of the import surplus and banning coal by law are part of this strategy — there are quite a few new ways in which Finland could really be a pioneer in the growing sectors of the world market. In comparison to the green option: our option is to boost renewable energy twice as fast, and we see that carbon-neutral Finland would be possible as early as the 2030s when the government is aiming for the 2050s. This international development is progressing very fast, and it is not just talking that leads the way. Now I would also like answers from the government on how to shift the big picture of the economy to low-emissions. For example, there are no proposals for reducing environmentally harmful subsidies. The price of the allowances is still low. There will be no proposals on how to correct the fact that energy investments will be made at all in the coming years. Even auctioning would not be available for renewable energy until 2018, when nothing would happen in the year and a half,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u59	Mr President! The development of carbon sinks in forests and their assessment is not in any way a simple matter. I have once learned that the more biomass that connects the forests, the better the climate and the carbon dioxide balance. In order to do so, we must ensure that forests grow and the forest area grows, but also that forests are managed, i.e. cut down. And from the point of view of this essential overall management it is important that we assess the entire cycle time and that comprehensive planning and optimisation are carried out in the use of raw materials. But there are also threats. For example, the new forest law allows for the felling of objects that would have taken place in previous years. We still have strong doubts about wood maps, and I am personally afraid of new forest wars as regards, for example, the recent activities of Metsähallitus. And I don't want to see Kemi or Kemijärvi in Lapland in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u60	Now it's going to be too much to get in the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u61	Mr President! In his opening speech, Minister Rehn said that there has been too much dependence on imported electricity, and I agree exactly with the Minister. That is why I say that, in the interests of security of supply, we need to pay greater attention to the use of domestic energy. We can no longer build this country on energy imported from abroad. I will take the example of peat production, which has been raised in many speeches during this debate: I personally know dozens of peat producers, peat entrepreneurs, and they have the problem of obtaining environmental permits for new peat production areas of their choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u62	Mr President! The Government's climate and energy strategy means a peaceful revolution for a good cause. After all, this is an ecologically sustainable bio- and electricity Finland that has not been seen before in this country, and it must be recognised by all of us, and that is a good thing. Minister Rehn rightly pointed out that biofuels and electric cars should not be put against each other at this stage, and that both are needed in the coming years. This latter, of course, is the direction for the future, but both are needed right now. In this context, I have a question of investments in bio-oil. Mr Minister, it is very likely that the investments in this area will want to flow to the coastal areas for certain reasons. Forest resources are where they are, mostly. I ask: is there any chance, Mr Minister, for the government to influence the location of these investments in a slightly more internal Finland, including our Eastern Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u63	Mr President! It is important for us to keep the energy palette diverse and to be self-sufficient enough not to be overly dependent on imported electricity. But with regard to this sufficiency of wood: We in Lapland have had insufficient demand for fibre and energy wood since Kemijärvi factory closed its sack in 2007. You can say yes that these sawmill side streams are not sold, even free of charge nobody cares about them, so this is in principle the situation. That is why I think it is good that these new projects are both for Kemijärvi and for Kemi this project by Kaidi. The Kaidi project is an investment of EUR 900 million, 600 jobs, and I hope that, when the demand for transport fuels is estimated to peak in 2020, this plant will be in operation. This increase in the use of biofuels in transport will help achieve this objective. We've got forest sown after the war in Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u64	One last reply to Mrs plant and Mrs Paloniemi, followed by the speech by Minister Berner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u65	Mr President! Smart electricity grids compensate for peak electricity consumption and shift power from electricity companies to consumers. Intelligent power grids are often called the Internet of Energy. It is no wonder, then, that the Katainen Government’s programme already promised on three occasions to promote the development of smart electricity networks. Since then, however, little has happened, and even in this strategy, smart grids are ignored by reference. I wonder why it is so difficult to build this smart electricity network in Finland. Is it up to a lack of will, or are we listening too much to electricity companies whose interests are to slow it down? At this rate, we will end up as importers of smart electrical technology as exporters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u66	Mr President! With this programme, Finland is indeed showing leadership. We are clearly reducing dependence on imported oil, which is a very important issue. We take responsibility internationally for this important issue, the mitigation of climate change, and at the same time we create a bio- and circular economy by promoting clean solutions, jobs for Finns and livelihoods for the whole country — excellent things all. I believe that the Government will quickly respond to the objectives of the Paris climate agreement by concrete actions. Forest use will increase sustainably, and it will mean more work for Finns. I guess that's what we're all hoping for now. In the future, timber will go into processing and side streams, such as bark, logging residues and so on, will be used for energy production. And the logging targets, which have already been discussed here on a number of occasions, will fit into the frame of the national forestry strategy. I congratulate the government on a good strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u67	I now give Mr Berner the floor for three minutes. After that, we will continue for a moment, and then Minister Rehn may be given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u68	Mr President! We have a fleet of cars in Finland, which was 11.7 years old in 2015, and we have 13 years to reach this emission reduction target of 3.6 million tonnes. We wanted our presentation to be based on calculations that are certainly feasible and that we should also base the proposal on cost estimates that we can carry as a society. That is why we sought three key solutions: One is that we are able to influence the coordination of the land use and transport system, the promotion of cycling and walking, and also the promotion of public transport, which should be responsible for one-quarter of the overall emission reduction target. The second is the renewal of the propulsion of vehicles, i.e. the promotion of electronic transport, which, according to calculations, will allow us to reach 250,000 vehicles and we will be able to do so. For society, it will cost approximately EUR 100 million over the next four years. It is clear that we would also like an ambitious target for electronic transport, but at this point we want to ensure that we achieve a certain goal with our current fleet and its age. The third solution is the use of biofuels and biogas, which can also be partly used in our current fleet of cars, and which is also an essential objective for the transport of heavy goods traffic. This currently corresponds to half of our objective. We also need more research and knowledge, knowledge and its development. We have also seen with satisfaction how, for example, the development of electric buses in Finland has progressed well, with good cooperation between VTT and individual companies. For example, this is also an issue that, in progress, will also facilitate our overall goal. At the same time, we still have to look at the concrete means. In the course of the report, we have sought a paper that will carry it until 2030, but the individual means will certainly live in the next 13 years, and that will require courage from us. Transport taxation needs to be substantially reformed in order to achieve more ambitious objectives, including in the area of electronic transport. It is a debate that will still take place during the spring: the proposals will be made before the spending limits debate and then the budget laws next autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u69	Mr President! It is good to hear that there is agreement on this great development here too, the government reacts to the tightening demands of the Paris Agreement and also to this concern about the risks of climate change. But then there are two problematic issues that have been left behind. The first concerns the future action of the United States. When the future President Trump has clearly suggested that he de facto wants to get rid of these objectives of the Paris climate agreement, of course it constitutes a very high risk to this common goal of the world as a whole. If this, detachment in practice, starts to happen, then the European Union will also play a much less important role. But another problem is the acceptability of this use of forests. For us, this bio-energy, forests play a very important role, and it is extremely worrying that the European Union has not understood this. Here we should go together to do a completely different kind of educational work than we have so far been able to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u70	Mr President! It makes sense to invest in green gold, in the forest, but the marching order must be kept clear in order to safeguard both nature conservation and biodiversity values in the same context. It must then be understood that green gold, wood, high-value products, such as medicines, wood products, clothing, then paperboard, paper, cellulose and then biofuels, and so on and so forth, and not actual value-added for energy production. This is very important. If we can make sustainable use of more and more wood by making more valuable products, including biofuel products, what is the role of imported raw materials in this context? We are now bringing both wood and wood. If we were better able to refine it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u71	Mr President! In this strategy, the government has sought a balance between environmental protection and the protection of Finnish taxpayers' jobs and, in my opinion, it has found it quite well. When I listened here to the Greens' proposal on this matter or to Mr Modig's proposal for a carbon tax, I am very pleased that certain parties are in the government and not those in the opposition. If we look at the direction that this should take, Mr Mölsä, in his group statement, pointed out that a substantial increase in the domestic level of energy production could bring up to tens of thousands of jobs to Finland. These jobs are mainly created in sparsely populated areas, precisely in those areas which it is important for this government to keep alive, to keep alive. As is well known, the Finns of Finland see the importance of being able to live at the end of the longwoods and having jobs available.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u72	Mr President! It was said that there was no mention of smart power grids. In fact, smart electricity grids are moving on market terms. At the moment, Fortum is also engaged in a project where a thousand water reservers are connected, as it were, and in that way they are able to decommission and thus regulate the entire network. The regional electricity grid and point-by-point energy production are advancing, and in the future this curve will not be as hourly as it now is that it jumps up and down and down and prices bounce. We're heading for a steady curve. But the real question is for Minister Rehn. When we talked about how power is enough, at least Fingrid says we still have a power deficit of 3400 megawatts and the Energy Agency buys 600 megawatts on the basis of a tender. There is quite a difference here, and at the moment the hydrobalance is at a rather negative level of 22 terawatt hours. What's possibly going on in the cold of January?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u73	Mr President! I believe that this Government's climate and energy strategy is historic. It is historic in two ways. The first point, in my view, is that this obligation to mix liquid fuels for transport is increased to 30%. This is the basis for these new investments in this sector. For example, the Kemi project, mentioned here, without this policy, would certainly have fallen, but it is now laying the groundwork. It is almost a billion projects and it creates employment in the north. And when concerns have been raised as to whether these forest resources are sufficient or are being used sustainably, I would also like to say that we vary quite a lot from region to region in terms of the sustainable use of these forest resources, and even though one third of Lapland's area has been protected, about half of the annual forest growth that can be exploited is currently untapped. That is why we need these large forest units here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u74	President! Energy policy is a national spearhead. It is a great thing that there is a broad consensus, even to this extent, that we are responsiblely talking about a sustainable energy economy. As Finns, we have every opportunity to become the Great Power of Cleantech. We have many kinds of skills, resources and so on. However, we need to be seriously concerned about whether we will retain our knowledge potential. I wonder whether the Minister will be able to answer how the resources of the various energy training courses will be secured and diversified. This also includes various complementary and specialised training courses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u75	Mr President! The Paris climate agreement entered into force at the beginning of November, and Parliament and Finland are committed to this climate agreement. That is why it is the right time to ask whether this energy and climate strategy meets the objectives of the climate agreement and to which we are committed. This strategy has good elements, including the abandonment of coal. On the other hand, if coal is to be replaced by peat, domestic coal, it is not in line with these objectives. Another problem is the use of forests and their plans in this regard. Various organisations and organisations have rightly been concerned about increasing deforestation and increased use of forests. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: why is peat emissions and increased use of forests not taken into account in the energy and climate strategy from the point of view of the obligations and objectives of the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u76	Mr. Speaker! This government's energy and climate strategy is a turning point in many respects. It's for energy, it's for action. It is also a turning point in the sense that we now clearly want to get rid of the fossil economy in a stronger way than before. In addition, it is a good entity that takes into account the northern location of Finland, our climate conditions, our security of supply, employment perspectives, trade and current account balances and so on. And, above all, with this strategy, we will be able to play an important role in the front line in combating climate change, promoting technology and so on. This is very good. Forest sink is a painful issue and an important issue for Finland. The only correct calculation is the natural sink. We have been inventorying our forests for over a hundred years, we have data for over a hundred years from the inventory of our forests, and what has happened? Growth has continued to increase, at the same time the carbon sequestration capacity, so that we also have a significant amount of more felling opportunities when fellings are done sensibly, as is the case with this strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u77	Mr President! The energy and climate strategy is a step in the right direction. It is absolutely essential that we consider how we can respond to climate change. However, it is misleading to say that this would be particularly ambitious. Yes, we need more speed and more ambition to meet the challenge that the Paris commitments require of us. I would like to raise one point here, and that is energy efficiency, which has been mentioned, but its potential has been somewhat overlooked. The strategy expects primary energy consumption to increase by 46 terawatt hours, although we know that new solutions are more likely to allow primary energy consumption cuts. It is also a technology with a huge demand in the world, and that is why we should invest in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u78	I will give the floor to Mr Mäkipää and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a three-minute speech. — — — — Congressman Mäkipää.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u79	Mr President! The world is our common cause, and caring for it and welfare is also our common concern. Today, the Commission has published such a thousand-page law, decision, legislation, and it also mentions that Finnish biomass production is considered to be on a sustainable basis, and thus the Commission's energy package supports the Government's energy and climate strategy now being implemented. It is good to continue with this, and we know that energy policy will not change in a month or six months. It is good, as has been said here, to give up coal. But it is also important that we have energy self-sufficiency and security of supply, and if we look at that very peat production, this is what employs, creates thousands and thousands of jobs in the wilderness. In that sense, it is good to move on with this case, and I feel that we have quite a common goal,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u80	Thank you. And now, Minister Rehni, three minutes, from the right place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u81	Mr President! I am glad, however, that you did not say that Minister Reini would not be confused with Jorma Rhine and the '70s electrical strike that was once experienced. — — — — All the same, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this debate, and I will answer as many questions as I can, and then we will take the rest in the committees in the course of December. Mr Hassi pointed out that I would have said that our strategy for electric cars is the most ambitious in the world. I didn't say this. I said that it is very ambitious in view of the relatively low starting point that we have in view of the old governments at the moment. Mr Hassi also called for faster progress towards a carbon-neutral society, Mr Niinistö called for concrete action, and Mr Tanus referred to the capital region. When you combine these, you end up saying that we need concrete measures to give up coal, especially in the capital region. This is something to be asked of Mr Hassi and Mr Niinistö: Your party, the Greens, rose to the second party in Helsinki as early as the year 2000, I think I was in Batpa, crashing, celebrating. The Greens have had a truly influential position in our capital, in its decision-making, since then, for the past 16 years. However, one might wonder what you have used your influence to do, while as much as 40 per cent of Helsinki’s heat is still produced with coal. As a Helsinkier, I would like to ask that it is probably time for a change away from coal-black energy policy towards a real-green energy policy in the Stad too. Mr Kääriäinen pointed out that we are engaged in a peaceful revolution. Yes, we will. Congressman Zyskowicz was concerned about the talk of revolution. I would like to emphasise this and note that Mr Jaskari also referred to this word in connection with this change in the energy economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u82	Then let's go on for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u83	Mr President! Minister Rehn will probably know that it has been decided in Helsinki to close down the Hanasaari coal power plant, which is a revolutionary decision, and that is what the Greens have been driving in Helsinki. The Government's approach to banning coal by law is welcome, as I said in my group statement, and the Greens will also have a good backstop in Helsinki for closing down the Salmisaari coal power plant. I would like to comment on this mess about science and the carbon sinks of forests. After all, Finland in the EU has advocated a method of calculation in which the country will not have to offset it by other emission reductions if the carbon sink in forests is reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u86	Mr President! I would have liked to ask the Minister again the question of promoting the construction of decentralised small biogas plants. However, it would provide a new opportunity and diversification in rural areas in a large number of areas, in terms of business life and better livelihoods and a wide range of opportunities. Could the Minister please open this up?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u87	Mr President! Minister Rehn raised an important point just now in his speech, confusing the increase in the obligation to biofuels, because I believe that this is the kind of rapid solution that could be used to deal with this matter in Finland. A 10% increase in the blending obligation from the current level will reduce emissions by 1 million tonnes, and in order to achieve the same emission reduction by electric car, it would need about 500,000 electric cars, that is to say, that is the ratio of what is realistically going on here. Therefore, if we want to achieve these emissions quickly, the development of biofuels and the increase in the obligation to mix would be an essential issue. If this government's overall target of 3.6 million tonnes is to be solved with fuels, 36% of the biofuel blending obligation would be to achieve the same result. We'd be like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u88	Värderade Talman! No matter how good the neighbors are, it is worth keeping the switch as close to itself as possible in winter and crisis situations. I would like to ask again, Minister, if you could open up some more of your ideas on the efficiency risk of freezing days and how the new connections between Finland and Sweden are going to proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u89	Mr President! Although I am from Espoo and not Helsinki, I have long been driving the idea that these municipalities should be one city, and I have the courage to defend the capital region. With such a large metropolitan area, I quite agree that a pile of coal must leave Salmisaari as well as from Suomenoja and Vantaa. But yes — and the Minister knows it quite well — the challenge of combined heat and power generation, for example, is a little different from the one million inhabitants in the metropolitan area than in the edge of a peat swamp or in the middle of forests to secure the energy production of a small church village or a small town.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u90	Mr President! What is essential in this strategy is, in my view, at the moment that we want to be pioneers rather than react to what the EU is becoming. And one thing that is absolutely essential is precisely these smart grids for electricity. We now have the same opportunity to be at the forefront of these smart grids for electricity as we were in the early 1990s and in telecommunications at the end of the 1980s. Then I ask the Minister: let us talk a lot about virtual power stations, small units, for example, which could act as storage facilities for electricity and deliver it when there is a high price or as a control force. How do we proceed on this issue, which seems to be a pretty huge opportunity for Finland in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u91	Mr President! I am a little annoyed that the ministers of this government often make it difficult to have a proper debate: when you try to offer it here, there will be speeches that are not based on facts. Three years ago, I would not have believed at the time of the previous municipal elections that the Greens in Helsinki will be able to implement a strategy that invests in distributed renewable energy, solar heat, geothermal heat and closes the Hanasaari coal power plant, because all the other parties in Helsinki were still opposed to it. First, the SDP began to change the line, finally the Coalition Party and the True Finns agreed, who originally opposed it. The Greens drove through quite a big change in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u92	Mr President! I too would like to ask how decentralised energy production and consumption are supported, because there are hardly any examples of this in this government report. For example, with regard to housing, we have almost zero energy construction under discussion here in Parliament. We made a proposal to monitor whether this legislation would really lead to a better situation in Finland, but the government parties did not want to accept it. For example, there are good examples of many large cities using different crops to bind carbon dioxide and other air pollutants in urban areas. In other words, it would also be good to involve such a very practical, human activity in this strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u93	Mr President! Great and significant investments in the forest industry will now come to Finland, including Äänekoski and Kemi. They release 2 to 3 million cubic metres of timber into the market. Sawmills have a significant share here as a paying agent, including 70 percent of the cost of carrying saws. However, there will remain a bite and shell that will not be supported — or now it will come through a CHP plant in the future. How about: jump off the same line with a forest chip, because, for example, there will be a supported forest chipping at the Keljo thermal centre but the sawmills will remain in the courtyards with the bark and the chipping to rot because they can't get straight
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u94	Mr President! The opposition nullifies a great strategy by saying that it is a step in the right direction. I believe that this is a giant leap towards the overgeneration of responsibility for the environment, climate and sustainable development. This strategy outlines the production and use of biogas, stating that most of the biogas potential is linked to agriculture. Indeed, farms could make a greater contribution to small-scale decentralised electricity and energy production and be an important part of security of supply and the effort to create work and vitality throughout Finland. The paper states that it is important that we influence national regulations, authorisation procedures and bureaucracy in such a way as to clarify the promotion of the production and use of biogas. I would ask the Minister: when it has already been mentioned that the EU is playing an important role here, what are the main threats there that we will not be able to implement this strategy in the next programming period?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u95	Mr President! The introduction of new technologies is, of course, also a worthy principle for energy solutions. However, new technologies must be competitive in terms of costs, and an unfortunate example of a failed form of support is the wind-power feed-in tariff system introduced in 2011, which has caused and will cost taxpayers billions of euros over the years. It is impossible to dismantle the feed-in tariff system on a timely basis because, according to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in 2010, the investments covered by it are covered by constitutional property protection. However, the total rated power of the plants covered by the scheme is limited by the Government's decision to 2500 megavolts. Thus, new wind power producers will no longer be able to apply for over-exploit the system, which is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u96	Mr President! We are facing the Government's deep-green energy and climate policy strategy. This is in many ways an historic policy, because we are heading towards a fossil-free society and we want to give up coal by 2030. Both Espoo and Helsinki are currently warming up with imported fossil fuels, and we need both national and local solutions to increase renewable energies through political decisions. As far as peat is concerned, the coat cannot, ladies and gentlemen, turn every parliamentary term. All of us, as well as you and the centre, have committed ourselves to the parliamentary working group's approach to peat that it is important, for the benefit of peat, to ensure that it is not abandoned until the final stage when fossil fuels are disposed of as a whole. And that's where we're headed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u97	I will give the floor to Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Niinistö and then to the Minister. Then there will be a further period of debate, with the aim of ending this part of the debate at around 16.30.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u98	Värderade Talman! Let me repeat my earlier question and try to put it more simply, if possible. So if a housing company sets up a solar power plant on the same property, it can count on it in the energy certificate and also use it at a very low price. If you base the same power plant on another property that you own, it cannot be calculated on an energy certificate for your property and the price of electricity triples. This is an obstacle to the spread of small-scale production. It could be solved with virtual metering. Does the government have any project, any idea of how to remove this obstacle?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u99	Mr President! Peat and its climate and water emissions are a blind spot in this government and should openly admit it. The climate and energy strategy adopted during the last Government term sought to reduce the use of peat by one third by 2025. Now this government is seeking to increase its use until 2020, after which...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives who originally asked for a reply are still here, as far as we can see — according to a common assessment here — Mrs Torniainen. That is why I will give him the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u101	Mr President! Perseverance will be rewarded, thank you for that. Finland deserves a genuine, healthy and sustainable relationship with nature, and that is what the current government has, we must all say. This is also reflected in this climate strategy. Transport generates about 40% of emissions and therefore accounts for a very large part of the emissions reduction targets. Finland has a lot of expertise in biofuels, and, for example, UPM A modern biorefinery in Lappeenranta is one of the world's leading industries. I ask you, Minister, how many such factories are needed in Finland, for example, according to this strategy, in order to achieve the objectives? Secondly, let me take an example of electric cars. It is an ambitious objective in this strategy. But we must also remember that it also requires a nationwide charging network, which is also not quite free. Does the Minister have a view on this charging network?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u102	Mr Parviainen has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u103	Mr President! I share the general view of the Greens that there is a lot of good in this strategy, but it is so modest in some respects that we will certainly have to review it again if we genuinely want to stick to international climate objectives in Finland. But, Mr President, I would like to ask Minister Rehn: when most and a key part of everyday climate action can be done, for example, in cities where there are quite a few people in numbers, how do you see the opportunities to implement this strategy in the municipalities and cities of Finland so that we can also encourage municipal decision-making in a more active climate-friendly policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u104	Now, if it were enough for Mr Rehn for three minutes, that would be good, and it would be reasonable if we had four at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u105	Thank you, Mr President. — First of all, Mrs Torniainen's quick answer: it has been estimated that the target and blend obligation for biofuels under this strategy would mean the construction of a biorefinery, the size of Lappeenranta, in Finland, which would, of course, benefit largely from advanced biofuel raw materials. Regarding a few key issues in this debate: It was very good that Mr Myller clarified that he and the SDP Group support the bioeconomy. In this context, I listened very carefully to what Mr Heinäluoma said about the need to seek solutions in the European field that support our bioeconomy strategy. It's the right thing to do. That is what we are doing, and the Commission's energy winter package, which was adopted today, is very much in line with Finland's objectives. This shows that there is nothing to be done by browsing, but, instead, proper and consistent work does produce results. We have also worked very closely with Sweden, among others, with many other Member States, and from now on, the focus will certainly shift to influence both the Council and then the parliaments. Representative Mölsä commented earlier on whether greenhouse gas emissions are being reduced too rapidly for Finland. In this respect, the binding emission reduction proposed by the Commission in the so-called burden-sharing sector is 39% for Finland. Of this, 2 percentage points are planned to be covered by so-called "one-off flexibility", i.e. emission allowances to be auctioned in the emissions trading sector. In order to achieve the remaining, already demanding, 37% target, the strategy has set out key actions, in particular on the driving forces of transport, the car fleet and so on. With regard to smart grids, the TEM has recently set up a working group which will consider concrete measures, and will review, among other things, the development of demand response, battery and storage technologies, and how else to strengthen price signals, in order, among other things, to better involve small-scale energy production. To Mrs Niinistö, I would simply like to say that when you called for concrete measures, I replied with facts and I would stress that it is absolutely positive that: Helsinki has decided to close the Hanasaari plant and the decision on Salmisaar is expected. It is very important that Helsinki contributes to the removal of coal. I am sure that if it has been largely successful in Stockholm, it will also be possible here in our small metropolitan area. Finally, Mr Kalli and many others here asked whether wood was sufficient and how EU rules were affected. In spite of this strategy, felling increases through demand for wood in the forest industry. Around 2030, felling can average about 80 million cubic metres per year — now about 65 million. The use of hull wood will continue to be largely based on industrial needs. For this purpose, wood is grown in Finland, not primarily for energy production, but the increase in wood-based bioenergy is based in particular on the secondary flows of the forest industry and on residues and by-products of end fellings and forest management. These measures of the strategy will increase the use of forest chips to some extent, and forest wood resources will be sufficient for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u106	Let's just go back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u107	Mr President! There has been a good debate here about the level of this strategy and the guidelines that can be found here, and yes, this strategy contains quite a bit of all the proposals that the opposition has also put forward to us, so to speak, in the form of additional proposals. At the Marrakesh climate conference the other week, I spoke with my Norwegian colleague among others, and he was surprised that Finland already has a ready energy and climate strategy that largely meets the requirements of the Paris Agreement. We can be very proud of this here that Finland has already reached this stage, because only in 2018 will these measures have to be ready, but we already have them. As far as this progress is concerned, it is quite clear that the change in the world is so rapid that it may be that in three years' time this strategy will feel a little bit better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u108	Mr President! Demand flexibility and smart electricity grids, as well as a functioning European electricity market, are an essential factor in balancing the demand peaks in the energy system. However, back-up capacity will still be needed in the coming years. However, these have now been driven down during cheap electricity. I would like to ask the Minister: how will the functioning and maintenance of emergency power stations, which are important for security of supply, be secured in the next few years? There are now many assurances here that wood suitable for high value added industries will not be used for energy combustion. However, on page 20 of the strategy, wood chippings and fibrewood will continue to be supported, albeit at a 40% lower support level. However, I would like to ask whether support for the use of raw materials and energy by industry in general is in favour. Does this not distort the diversion of raw materials into high value-added industries?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u109	Mr President! It is a good thing that the Minister did not have the wrong impression of the Social Democrats' positions in the bioeconomy. I would also like to point out that the bioeconomy is extremely important for Finland, and especially for Eastern Finland, but at the same time we must ensure that the forestry industry, with all its potential, all its potential in the future, is fully exploited and that only these side streams and residues will then be made energy. The Finnish sawmills are already in a very difficult situation. There's bits and shells and other stars that don't move. We should be able to solve this. I would also like to ask if the log, if it is to be retrieved, needs support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u110	Mr President! It is very important that this strategy is aligned as set out here. In many cities an investment decision has been prepared, for example in Oulu, and it determines whether heat alone or combined heat and power production is produced. In this respect, it was also important for peat that it can continue to be used as a compound fuel, as part of this whole. In other words, I believe that this will bring investment, then jobs in the regions in concrete terms — an excellent thing. This is where Minister Rehn told the facts that have been the background to coal black politics in Helsinki. It was no distortion, it was a fact and a fact. Understandably, it is now a little difficult for the Greens when they have acted differently from what has been said. It has been thought that peat can be driven down in the provinces, but coal is burned in Helsinki. But that is the way it is, and let us now move forward and join forces in implementing this good strategy. Conclusion
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u111	Mr President! With regard to wood, I would also like to say that it is of course very important for Finland in economic terms, but it makes sense for both the climate and the economy to direct the use of wood to products where the carbon contained in wood remains for a long time, for example in the construction of wood, and, secondly, for new products, the price per kilogram is very much higher than traditional paper and pulp. But in fact I originally wanted to comment on the fact that Mr Eestilä said that the smart grid is moving on market terms: This is not necessarily the case at the moment, because there are a lot of older, large players in the energy market who do not take a positive view of everything that is good for climate and employment. One example of this is the Fingrid proposal, which would mean that batteries for electric cars and batteries for solar houses, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u112	Let's hold on to this minute's speaking time. — — — — Congressman Jaskari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u113	Mr President! Like the previous speakers, I would really have asked a little about how the Minister sees that consumers are also involved in this energy system. One aspect would be that there would also be stronger price signals when the price of electricity is high, and consumers can even protect themselves automatically from it. Another aspect is the inclusion of small electricity generating units in this market. Thirdly, Mr Adlercreutz's suggestion that there should be virtual power stations that would cross the plots as well, and that genuinely modern networks could then be used. One aspect could be to charge energy instead of energy efficiency: When you use more power, you pay for it, and then there would be a percentage tax on energy prices, and if you use low energy, there would also be a lower percentage of energy tax or electricity tax. Do you have an idea?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u114	I will give the floor to the representatives of Hongisto and Salmon, and then to the minister, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u115	Mr President! A number of speakers have expressed concern at the fact that timber is being harvested and burned. I wondered how many of these sayings have been trading wood. It's been a long time since my own wood shop, but I looked at a little bit of wood sales prices from the bar diagram online, and I found that pine hair and spruce in the regeneration fellings are about EUR 55 per cubic metre — when it's a column diagram, I couldn't exactly say — and in thinning chops the price is a few euros cheaper. On the other hand, pine, spruce and birch fibres are much less than 20 euros per cubic metre; in thinning fellings these are also a few euros cheaper, and in the first thinning the price continues to fall. Let me just say that no sensible tree owner will want to chip or burn valuable logs if and when there are other possibilities to use it. The best possible use of wood is always in the interests of the owner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u116	Mr President! I would like to return to this government's line that coal will be completely phased out by 2030, which is a very tough decision but a good decision. When asked why, then, the use of peat, which is calculated to release as much, has a very clear reason: it is a domestic fuel, it employs thousands of Finns here. This marching order, which is chosen that when fossils are abandoned, the domestics come, employ, then last, is the right line from the government. I would also like to say that this update of the Government's climate and energy strategy is excellent. It takes major steps in the right direction and implements international climate agreements. But that too must of course be borne in mind that a good strategy is only a good start and implementation is crucial. This is good for all of us to remember. I would therefore like the government to be given the strength to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u117	Now, Minister Rehn, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u118	Mr President! Thank you for those contributions. With regard to what representatives Kosonen and Rantakangas stressed that we are the forerunners here when we make this very early energy strategy in line with the Paris-EU 2030 Agenda: That is exactly how it is, which means that it has many positive aspects. Firstly, the fact that we are an international pioneer shows direction to the rest of the world by, among other things, abandoning the use of coal for energy in the next decade. In addition to this, we are now in a better position to influence the decisions of the EU, because the Commission's proposal and discussion are only just beginning in the Council and Parliament and will take a long time. It is good that we have a line of thought which, I believe, will still be imprisoned here in Parliament, and that will give us a stronger basis to enter into these further negotiations within the European Union. In addition, as Mr Rantakangas said, this clarifies the business environment. It is very important that companies know the conditions under which they can invest in renewable energy, which is the view there when they talk about forest chips or other bioenergy. In the same way, the blending obligation will strengthen the incentives to make those massive investments in biorefineries across Finland, which is very important in this green gold country. In this context, Mr Myller and Mr Hongisto and several other representatives referred to bioeconomy and forestry. In this regard, for example, when we talk about developing biofuels, which are in a way at the heart of the Commission's proposal today to shift transport to renewable energy, of course, alongside electric cars, it is very important to emphasise that energy sources are mainly advanced biofuels, not so-called first-generation fuels, but waste and forest industry side streams, as Mrs Myller has said for her part. Mr Jaskari and Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Strand referred to the security of energy supply and the functioning of the electricity market. These are very much related to each other, and when Mr Jaskari, like Mr Hassi, called for us to involve consumers with stronger price signals and also to bring small production into play, that is exactly how it is, and that is why, as I said just now, we have set up this group of smart grids, which will make more concrete proposals on how we will actually make progress in this field in the future in parallel with the implementation of this other strategy. Well, then, to the question which Mr Strand put on at least two or three occasions: whether electricity will run out in the winter or how the electricity market will be developed. What is very important is the need to develop both the regional electricity market and the European market in order to achieve sufficient and the right types of investment. The Nordic electricity market is an example, Benchmark, for the rest of Europe, but we know there are shortcomings in it, and that is why we want to develop it very far forward, and that is what we invested in last week when we met with the Nordic Energy Ministers. At the same time, it is important that, as this is developed, the third interconnection between Finland and Sweden is being prepared, inter alia, to improve security of supply and to ensure the better functioning of this Nordic electricity market as a whole. At present, price differences are quite significant between northern Finland and Sweden, and it shows that interconnections do not function satisfactorily. Increasing the flexibility of consumption and production is, of course, of enormous importance for energy efficiency and the efficiency of the system as a whole, and in this respect the development of smart grids is essential in a market where production varies greatly. In Finland, it also varies because of the seasons and the balancing of energy production required by them. This will also be facilitated by Fingrid's data hub, which will be subject to the preparation of legislation which will help to ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u119	Then we will begin the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u120	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det råder ingen brist på strategistipapper. Somliga tas i beaktande, andra läggst ner på hyllan för att samla damm. Somliga är viktiga, andra försumbra. Värderade Talman! Denna strategist hör till den förra categorin. Klimat och energi om något är av helt avgörande betydelse när vi diskuterar framtidens utmangar, och det är ett document som vi i stort sett kan vara nöjda med.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u121	Mr President! Combating climate change and limiting global warming to below 2°C will not allow time to wait. The Paris climate agreement was a major achievement for the international community, but we already know, on the basis of the views of the international scientific community, that the commitments made there will not be enough; the EU's 40% emission reduction target for 2030 will not be enough. Therefore, the fact that the Finnish Government does the minimum that the EU requires of us and what we are legally committed to in the EU is not enough — we know this already now — if we care about the future of this planet and limiting global warming in such a way as to avoid catastrophic consequences. If the commitments of the Paris Agreement are fulfilled as such, emissions from the United States, China and EU countries alone will meet the global emission potential within 20 years if we remain within 2°C. The equation doesn't go together. We know this. I am therefore surprised that there are still representatives in this House who do not recognise that this programme is not ambitious, it is a loose, slob who does not put anything on top of what we are at the very least committed to doing in the EU. It is, of course, a good thing that the government is looking for ways to do so, and there are good ways to do so. I do not want to say that the programme does not include good work, especially in scenario and strategy work, but if we want to be pioneers in the construction of a sustainable economy, this field of play will move very quickly. It is not enough simply to do what Sweden, Norway and Germany did two years ago. If we want to have those jobs, if we want our industry to be the one to build those renewable energy solutions, then we have to do more than others do, not a couple of years later what they are doing now. There is one sector in which Finland is, in a way, ahead of others, but it is also a high-risk sector and of course related to the use of forest bioenergy. I would like to see further work now focused on what the Minister, Mr Rehn, said — and I must thank Mr Rehn on this point — pointed out that the use of forest bioenergy should take account of the whole circular economy and the fact that the highest possible value added makes use of what is exploited from forests. At the same time, the government should also remember that the sustainable use of forests also requires funds for forest conservation and the protection of valuable biodiversity, which the government has cut at the same time. It is difficult both to maintain moderate carbon sinks, to increase fellings and to maintain biodiversity if the majority of the funds have been cut off on the nature conservation side. Mr President! When you think about what to do, this is about changing the whole economic system, how to change the transport system, how to change the whole starting point, because, why, how people need to move. More and more digital services can be used — this is where the government is moving, that is a good thing. We have to use more and more public transport, robot cars come on some schedule. When Germany and Norway are considering banning internal combustion engines already in the 2020s or by 2030, then we also need to think about how we should move forward in the area where others are moving. Therefore, I personally consider it justified to increase the obligation to mix biofuels to 30%, but that alone is not enough, because we must also be in the process of developing these new types of cars. As far as public transport is concerned, perhaps on the transport side I would blame the government's programme the most. It is clear that even significant investments in electric cars and increasing the use of biofuels will not solve the need to reduce transport emissions that we have, without a significant increase in the use of public transport in our urban areas and also in transport between urban areas. In rural areas, it will then be possible to drive electric cars, biogas and clean domestic alternatives by promoting them to ensure that the costs of driving will be reasonable in future and that the methods are clean. But in urban areas it is increasingly possible to move towards a completely public transport-intensive system. A big city in which you don’t need a car is not a city that restricts mobility but frees movement. In this respect, the thinking should change, and I think that Helsinki is already changing direction here, and the government's policy should support it. A few concrete things, Mr President, to this end. Denying hard coal is a good thing. In fact, the last energy strategy stated that the main aim is to get rid of coal by 2025. We are now taking five years of time, but we are trying to ban it by law, which will increase concreteness. My proposal is that this should be achieved through the creation of a CO2 capping system for the environmental permit procedure,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u122	Mr. Speaker! Mr Niinistö quite rightly said that there is a change in the system, and that is the way it is. It is part of the ambition contained in this strategy. He also said that we should not do years behind others. I don't care about Helsinki. Stockholm has made these decisions for renewable energy many days ago, and that too is, as I know, a pretty big city. I'm glad to hear that. Helsinki is coming after us now. Similarly, President-in-Office, with regard to this carbon sequestration potential of forests, I would like to say once again that, when I said just now that over a hundred years we have been measuring this, it has been increasing — both the growth and the increase in wood — and it proves that the surface area is not important but that growth is important. Only the green one is the one that connects, which then attracts the harmful greenhouse gas emissions. So, in that sense too, what the Commission is proposing in the first place is totally flawed, and it is therefore very good that good news has come today about the fact that the first round has now been won in that direction of the EU, but there is still work to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u123	Mr President! Representative Leppä brought up some very pertinent points — I would like to take it from here. So when you consider where our emissions come from, that is, living, transport, and food production are key factors. These are the three major emitters, in a way, at the end of consumption, and energy production is only a means of achieving these, and then on the back of the sink they are bound by the forests. It would be great if we could find such a national view in Finland, how, for example, in agricultural production, we could also increase the incentive for agricultural production to increase carbon sequestration in the soil, to obtain consumer products with international demand, and that we do not just think that climate protection is a cost to agriculture or forestry, but that the whole of agriculture and forestry is considered from the point of view that the climate thanks, jobs praise and new products. This issue of value added also applies to agriculture, and it also applies to forestry, and here I hope everyone will have an open mind. I believe it is in our common interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u124	This was a very long debate, but I will give Mr Jaskari and Mr Leppä a reply in this connection, and if Mr Niinistö, who initiated the debate, wants to speak to him, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u125	Mr President! An interesting point of view for this issue of emissions from agriculture is what certain industry representatives, such as Raisio's CEO, have said that there could be a surprising amount of emission reductions if we look at new concepts in a certain way, and that is why I agree that this should be done very openly. But I would also have asked the Minister in this connection: now we have the procurement law in the final stages, and that is one very big point: these energy and circular economy systems and also the life-cycle perspective. How does the Minister intend to promote this energy-efficient society on the side of the procurement law and their large public procurement?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u126	Mr. Speaker! It is quite clear that these things that have just been mentioned in food production are also extremely important. There technology is progressing all the time, and two things have to be distinguished: we are talking about intensive production and we are talking about efficient production. Surely, Mr Niinistö, you mean the efficient production that must be in order to achieve the things you have mentioned — which are good, they are very good, and that is how we must do it. And here, by the way, Finland is very good. By the way, Finland is already very good. Then, with regard to food, as with energy, I would like to remind you that they are both essential goods otherwise, without these two things, we will not last a day here. Our northern location and so on, of course, emphasise this, and it is therefore good that these are also assessed from the point of view of the need for a necessary commodity at our disposal, but also, of course, from this climate and energy perspective and the current account perspective and many more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u127	Mr President! I bring concrete examples of what it means: Indeed, Raisio has good products in which carbon footprint is measured, and they are also sold to consumers. And with this strong increase in consumer demand also in vegetarian, vegan diets, we have the potential to combine domestic science, food industry, food production, domestic raw materials with completely new products with export prospects, such as Nyhtökara, Härkis and this type of products. But the interesting thing was that when I talked to these developers, they said that in Finland there is still no further processing of plant protein, that is, some of these plant proteins, pea and beef bean proteins, will have to be imported from abroad because we still lack that downstream chain. In other words, there is a lot to be done here in different areas, so that this reduction in emissions — not only by making society as a whole low-emission but also by creating a new economic viability logic in different industries — would be our common challenge, in a way that should be seen as the more you do, the more you do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u128	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u129	Mr President! This government's energy and climate strategy, with all its shortcomings, is one of the most important documents of the parliamentary term. However, I find it difficult to see this strategy so ambitious that I could genuinely say that Finland is doing its best. When future generations ask us whether we now understand the seriousness and importance of climate change, or whether we are thinking of the decisions that are now being taken, above all from our own perspective, I would have to pry if I were to respond to future generations. For our children's sake, we must tighten more, do better, run faster. The energy and climate strategy broadly meets the current EU climate targets in Finland. However, the situation is that the EU should also be able to do better, and, for example, the EU's objectives vis-à-vis the Paris commitments are rather lax. Indeed, carbon neutrality should be achieved already in the 2030s and, in order to achieve this, our targets should already be stricter. Giving up hard coal is an important goal. I'm glad it's part of this strategy. The government's objective of ending the use of coal in the next decade is therefore a good one, but I consider it to be modest in terms of timetable. On the other hand, there are certainly practical reasons why it has been decided to take this small time-out, especially when the government is at the same time firmly committed to Finnish peat policy and clings to peat, although it is even worse than coal in terms of the climate. Of course, there are security of supply issues involved, but still. We need clear and fast-acting new legislative instruments and step signals that will help to reduce not only the combustion of coal but also the use of peat in the future. It has been mentioned here that peat will remain in use until we are a coal-free society, and then we will gradually move on to reducing it. I would see that the road map should be made already. The bright spots of the strategy — and fortunately there are them — can be found in transport policy. While digitalisation and technological development will shape the way we move in general, it is important to facilitate the purchase and use of low-emission cars. This will also open up opportunities for our industry, because, for example, with regard to battery technology for electric cars, our climate conditions are excellent for development. The electrification of passenger transport, together with the traffic cycle, opens up new opportunities, and I would also like to look at the traffic cycle from the point of view of reducing emissions. The Government aims to have at least 250,000 electric cars and 50,000 gas cars in Finland by 30 C.E. The target is quite moderate because more than 100,000 new cars are sold annually in Finland. On the other hand, our fleet is old. The strategy's transport policy highlights the use of biofuels. It may help to support the domestic economy, but in the future we should first and foremost use biofuels for purposes for which there are no known or foreseeable future alternatives other than liquid fuel or gas. So I am talking about ships and work machines, for example. In any case, there will continue to be motor vehicles, and for that reason the government's objective of a more ecological blending of fuels is certainly justified. Over and above all, different sustainable biomass solutions are worth playing a role in our energy policy, but they are hardly enough to replace all fossil energy. It is already being considered whether forest energy, for example, is sufficient for all its intended uses. The use of bioenergy must be implemented in a sustainable manner and with respect for nature. The Government’s bioenergy targets therefore present risks to environmental degradation and the reduction of carbon sinks in forests. Our technological solutions to the environment and nature should not create new problems. I hope that the government will work closely here so that we do not end up in a ditch. On the other hand, this is also linked to environmentally harmful subsidies, for example, which, in my opinion, have not been very motivated by the government to intervene. Mr President! Many issues relating to our emissions targets will be resolved in cities. Energy efficiency needs to be improved briskly and using energy sources that are genuinely emission-free, such as geothermal energy, large heat pumps, property-specific soil and air heat pumps, waste heat recovery, solar heat, seasonal heat storage, smart demand flexibility and smart grids. Many of these things can be parts of a sustainable future together. At the same time, we must build municipalities and cities where it is easy to move and live sustainably. These decisions are also taken at municipal level. As legislators, we should make the law possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u130	Mr President! I have grown up in the midst of forests and swamps, which is why I appreciate the energy benefits they bring and, through industry, new investment opportunities — I am speaking very narrowly, almost in the forest. One third of Finland's surface area, or about 10 million hectares, is peatland, of which only less than one per cent is used in the use of energy peat. At the end of coal production, peat as domestic natural energy should be taken as one positive option in our country due to energy self-sufficiency, security of supply and new jobs. I admit that Vapo has had these different problems in his time when he was the largest producer of peat, but Vapo has acknowledged these different problems and now the technology has improved to protect water. Finland is known for its forests, and their abundance has given rise to talk about the land of green gold. The growth of Finnish forests has more than doubled in the last 50 years. Today, our forests grow more than ever during independent Finland. The growth of forests has been influenced by growing wood resources, increasing the share of young forests, investing in forest management and forest improvement. The use of wood in consumption has changed. Although demand for paper has decreased, our green gold remains valuable to us. The energy use of wood has grown strongly, and wood is currently our main source of energy. The forest industry is the largest consumer of energy in industry and also a major producer of energy and produces about half of the electricity it consumes. The energy wood accumulation estimate is strongly linked to the level of material fellings, as about 66 per cent of it accumulates from the logging residues and stocks of material fellings. As a result of the development of bioeconomy, significant additional investments in the forest sector and the diversification of forest use are expected. For example, new investments in pulp, bioenergy and liquid biofuels will contribute to increasing the use of wood. The forest sector is an important part of the Finnish bioeconomy, in which sustainable economic growth is formed in Finland. Exports of wood-based products now account for about 20% of the total value of our country’s exports of goods. The national economic importance of forest bioeconomy production is emphasised because the factors in production are mainly domestic. The energy use of biomass must be based primarily on the use of industrial side streams, residues and waste. Wood is also produced in logging and forest management, which is not suitable for energy use or for which there is insufficient demand for wood processing raw material. The willingness to invest in wood-using industries has increased, although the willingness to invest remains weak in many other sectors. Good access to wood is one of the key conditions for the realisation of new investments. A number of investment projects in the wood processing industry are planned in Finland, where the net use of wood would increase by around 6.5 million cubic metres by 2020. Finland’s forests grow nearly 110 million cubic metres of trunkwood annually, of which around 60 to 65 per cent have been utilised in recent years. Approximately four fifths of the consumption of Finnish sawn timber is used for construction. It is now worthwhile for Finland to increase wood construction and be a pioneer in developing solutions based on renewable natural resources. On the side of the new building, wooden blocks are making a new appearance, and every effort must be made to promote this development. Mr President! As a domestic, local, renewable and environmentally friendly energy source and building material, wood will be an increasingly competitive raw material that we have at our disposal. Forests produce diverse raw materials and are a good example of circular economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u131	Mr President! In assessing the energy and climate strategy in order to halt climate change, the net contribution of Finland to the atmosphere, i.e. the total amount of carbon emissions and sinks, is crucial. Although the time span of the strategy is up to 2050, we really need to make a radical reduction in our emissions long before then. As has already been said many times, the great question mark of the strategy is linked to the enormous pressure on forest use. It is quite right that side streams and logging residues in forestry should be used for energy production and transport fuels, but under no circumstances should forests be cut for energy use and timber and fibre wood should not be diverted for energy use. This is essential both for the climate and for industry. As a national economy, we cannot afford to direct the raw materials of the higher processing industry into a combustion boiler and we cannot afford to make the carbon sink a source of emissions through irrational use. The question arises as to why the government wants to support the energy application of wood and fibrewood that is suitable for industrial raw material. The aid is 40% lower than for non-industrial wood, but is the energy use of the raw material in industry worth any support in the future? In terms of climate and efficiency, it is best to control forest residues to replace fossil fuels and peat in CHP plants. This will enable the best energy and climate benefits to be recovered from the raw materials. In transport fuel, however, raw materials do not produce the same high efficiency and high value-added raw materials such as pine oil should not be diverted to tanks. In the long term, it is the most efficient and environmentally friendly to electrify transport and direct the application for combined heat and power from the forest industry as a secondary raw material. However, transport biofuels are an important transitional solution, but eventually the future of transport is likely to be in electricity. Electric cars can also act as a significant power reserve, as we need increased demand response in electricity consumption. Electric car batteries act as demand levelling elements and as a secondary source of power under variable production conditions. Through intelligent electricity systems, we can achieve significant energy efficiency and balancing of demand peaks and balancing of variable production. As a power reserve, innovative storage methods such as the pump plant project designed for Pyhäsalmi’s closing mine should also be supported. Smart electricity grids and electrification of transport are mentioned in the strategy, but, unfortunately, the number of concrete new measures remains limited. But I hope they're still coming. Mr President! When it comes to transport, it is also essential to try to reduce the need for transport and to improve the efficiency of the transport system. In this respect, it is essential to increase public transport and light transport where realistic conditions exist. Unfortunately, there is little concrete in the strategy, even though it is possible to make progress along this path, for example, by providing kilometric compensation for commuters, by supporting municipalities in the development of climate-wise infrastructure, by means of public transport subsidies or by imposing car congestion charges on the capital region. Above all, municipalities play a key role in combating climate change and building an energy-wise future. Municipalities need guidance, encouragement, and even coercion. It is a pity, for example, that Parliament, at last week's reading, did not agree to the dissemination of energy efficiency requirements for procurement in municipalities. Housing, transport and nutrition are key issues for climate emissions. Especially in cold conditions, the role of living is emphasised. Concrete measures are needed to improve and encourage energy efficiency in housing. For example, I have suggested that the household allowance should be used for energy renovations by old housing companies, as the old building stock has a lot of untapped energy efficiency potential. The best energy is the one that does not even need to be produced, so the investments in energy efficiency are the best climate action. Mr President! EU emissions trading is not functioning sufficiently. It is important that Finland supports the correction of emissions trading and, if it cannot be corrected, carbon taxes must be introduced. In a situation where Europe is reducing emissions but some countries in the world are not reducing emissions, the introduction of a carbon tariff in the EU must be seriously considered. This would allow the EU to price emissions from abroad and bring about a level playing field between European and non-European companies and put pressure on the rest of the world to commit to emission reductions. The issue of carbon tariffs is particularly topical now that US President Trump has threatened to remove the country from the Paris climate agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u132	Mr President! In my opinion, less than three hours have been the subject of a very high-quality debate on energy and climate policy, and I will make some observations and comments in relation to this debate. These set objectives in the big picture are right in such a way that they can be easily supported — the level of ambition and the concreteisation of the objectives can then always be discussed. I say this because, in fact, during the last term of government, there was a parliamentary committee that made a road map of energy and climate policy, and it was unanimous. Its proposals on the road map are, in fact, well within this government proposal, and it is, of course, logical that, when we, as demars, were involved in it, then we can also support the objectives which have now been immersed in this work. After all, half of the energy used in Finland already comes from non-emission sources, renewables and nuclear power. Of course, this strategy now relies heavily on the use of wood and biofuels, and in this respect, although good news has come out of the Commission's winter package, it must be very careful that this carbon sink calculation and biomass sustainability criteria are, in a way, put in such a position that we will be able to manage it and that work should continue in this respect. So these measures that have now been taken will not be enough. On the other hand, we must ensure that wood raw material is available for production and export at a high level, including, for example, the construction of a wooden block. The good thing about this proposal is that renewable energy production such a fixed-term new support model would be being built between 2018 and 2020 through competitive tendering, and I think it is a good innovation in this area. The challenges facing transport are quite great and it is clear that this transport network system needs to be reformed. This target of 40% renewables and a 30% blending obligation is the right target as such. It can also bring new refinery opportunities. But it will not be enough, and it will result that this building of an intelligent electricity network is very important — electric cars, gas cars — and the infrastructure it requires will require our efforts to achieve 250,000 electric cars or 50,000 gas cars. I personally feel that biogas is an important factor in our energy palette in the future. But then the question arises, and this would now require a lot of calculations as to what all this, this restructuring, means in fuel prices to consumers, to the industry, and these estimates should be made more precise so that there are no big surprises here on the price side. One of the cornerstones of Finland’s versatile energy package or strategy has been nuclear power: 18% of energy consumption comes from nuclear power. These climate objectives, which have been set here, will not be achieved without this share of nuclear power that we now have. The question therefore arises as to why the government is shy or shy about saying this in this document — there are not very many lines of it. However, I am able to assume that the government has not changed its line in this respect, but the nuclear capacity that we now have, and the nuclear power stations that will be built are still part of our energy strategy. Otherwise, these objectives will not succeed. Then perhaps it is good to say that the Nordic Council of Ministers set up Jorma Ollila to examine Nordic energy policy and, above all, the functioning of the electricity market, which is in a low fermenting state, and this will not be completed until next year. How these will be taken into account in this future work was, of course, a question for the Minister, but he is no longer here. The second big thing is that the EU Energy Union project is, of course, under way. It may still be at a fragile stage, but it is important that Finland prepares for that debate as well as for proactive lobbying. Then I want to decide on something positive like this,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u133	Mr President! When we make national policies, we need to see for a long time what is happening at international, EU level, in the Nordic countries and in our countries. We must also genuinely recognise our own strengths, weaknesses, threats and opportunities. Internationally, interest is now in the US's policies after Donald Trump's election. Trump has said that he is open to climate agreements but is likely to invest in domestic investments and even in new oil and gas projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u138	Mr President! The Paris climate agreement entered into force on 4 November, less than a year after the historic agreement of the climate conference. Among other things, the climate agreement includes an ambitious target of halting global warming to 1.5 degrees, which in practice means, for example, giving up fossil fuels on a reasonably fast schedule. The Finnish Parliament approved the agreement 25. In other words, we are committed to the objectives and other obligations of the agreement. In connection with the discussion of the climate agreement, I raised a number of questions which Finland should answer with practical measures to enable the objectives of the agreement to be met. These include energy policy reform, environmental policy strengthening, promotion of research and innovation, sustainable use of natural resources and circular economy, agriculture and forestry, land use, housing and transport solutions and urban policy, and various economic instruments. We therefore need a broad range of actions in different areas of society, both in the state, in the municipalities and in businesses. Now our discussion is a key tool for achieving climate objectives, i.e. an energy and climate strategy until 2030. The question is whether the strategy presented to Parliament is sufficiently ambitious to meet the objectives of the climate agreement. The energy and climate strategy contains many important and supported objectives and guidelines. However, there are also shortcomings and weaknesses in the strategy. Let me now identify a few of these. The objectives of the strategy for decoding coal and reducing the use of oil are good. However, the timetable for coal is not ambitious enough. In order to achieve the objective of 1.5°C, coal should be disposed of globally by 2025. The government’s objective of abandoning coal combustion by 2030 is therefore not sufficient. I would therefore like to ask why the target has been set as long as 13 years, not 2025. While abandoning coal is a good message, increasing the use of peat and ignoring its importance as a source of climate emissions is one of the main weaknesses of the energy and climate strategy. Peat is an emission source comparable to coal and even worse, and it is also an environmentally problematic source of energy. In order to achieve the emission targets, this also requires the abandonment of domestic coal, i.e. peat after a transitional period. It would now be important to send out a clear signal that there is no place for investments or production based on polluting energy sources in the energy palette of the future. Another key problem for achieving climate objectives is that the energy and climate strategy relies heavily on increased felling and use of forests. Forests are an important resource for Finland, and the rational use of wood is also an important resource for domestic livelihoods. However, a transition to renewable energy production cannot be made at the expense of our forests, or carbon sinks, but must aim at sustainable use of wood by increasing the level of processing. A significant increase in forest use is simply not a sustainable path from the point of view of climate objectives. The carbon sink of forests must not be reduced, but rather grown. It is good that transport emissions have been taken into account in the strategy and that the aim is to reform the transport system and move towards electronic transport. Here too, however, Finland could be more ambitious than the strategy now presented. Mr President! Just as Mrs Myller said in her speech, the change in energy systems in the world has already begun and is well under way. Mr Sarkkinen also spoke well about the importance of energy efficiency, among other things. Finland should be at the forefront of change. The transition to renewable and emission-free energy production and more efficient energy use, as well as saving it, is not only essential from the point of view of climate objectives, but also economically sensible. As has been said in several speeches, combating climate change is an opportunity for Finland, but this requires a strong investment in research, innovation and product development. The government's extensive cuts in education and research weaken Finland's competitiveness, especially from the point of view of expertise and innovation. We must therefore always look at all the important solutions and decisions from the point of view of climate objectives. This is our duty to future generations and the recipe for future success.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u139	Mr President! To begin with, I think it is wonderful that, when we have had this debate here in the Chamber, we can say that there is certainly a broad consensus on this great policy on climate and energy. You almost have to pick up those weighting differences, but you can find them, and one of course is how to deal with, for example, the continuing use of peat. We know that some would think that it should be driven down as quickly as possible, but then there is another aspect that we have raised, that it is domestic fuel and that it employs thousands of Finns. However, when we do not immediately get rid of fossil fuels, it is important that the march order that the government now has is the right one, that is, the first one, to try to get rid of the fossil fuels that are imported from outside the borders of the country, and then those that are domestic. If we are thinking of our current and trade balances, it has been negative in recent years, unfortunately. We are deleveraging outwards, and energy commodities play a crucial role in this. That amount has varied, but about EUR 6 to 8 billion per year we import more energy goods here in Finland than we export here from Finland. For this reason too, it is absolutely essential that we find medicines for this, and this is what the Government's climate and energy strategy is about to give us answers to. One answer is that when we know that our transport currently operates almost 100% on fossil fuels, oil-based fuels, petrol and diesel, we would be able to replace them with domestic bio-processes, biofuels, but also with biogas, which at best can create jobs in villages across the country. Agricultural waste can be utilized in biogas production, and that is how we get the money to go around, not only here in Finland but even in the regional economy. If I thought that someone would be someone who, now that this strategy has been discussed, would quickly demand concrete action from the state so that we could encourage and support the creation of such pilots across Finland. I know that there is the technology to produce these, it is finished, we have the raw material to produce this biogas, we have the willing parties who would be willing to invest in it, but the only thing we lack is demand. No one dares invest in the production of biogas in those villages and around Finland if we do not have to ensure that there is a demand for that biogas there. It would be reasonable of course that it demand should be as close as possible so that there, locally, where produced this gas, could also be such a refuelling station. Mr President! I would also like to raise this issue of forests, on which many speakers have spoken. I myself believe that it is of course important for the forest to be used in a sustainable way, and it is not worth using the kind of wood that should be mechanically used for construction, for the sawmill industry, to burn. And when, for example, we have a biofuel plant planned there, the Kemi Kaid plant, they have found that it would not even be economically worthwhile for them to start using the verses that make sense for other uses, but that the market economy is already working to guide the correct use of wood. They do not start burning or processing logs into biofuels for transport; that is quite clear. But it is also clear that if we want to use our forests in a sustainable way, we can afford to increase the use of forests. As the forest grows, it also binds that carbon dioxide, and for that reason it makes sense for us to make effective use of the growth of the forest. As I said in that debate on the debate, we have huge regional differences. On the other hand, there is a huge demand for forest in certain areas, but in Northern Finland and Eastern Finland, where the forest industry has partially withdrawn, there is a situation that the growth of forests and the potential that can be exploited after protection will not be exploited by up to half, and this does not make sense. We need to create jobs, and this government programme
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u140	Mr President! Finland is making a major change in its energy and climate policy. When we look at the scale of the change and what all the changes affect, there is also a rather fast timetable. The direction of change in climate policy is the right one. When changes are made, we must ensure that too radical changes do not harm the competitiveness of our country's industry. At the same time, by taking care of our competitiveness, we will ensure that our industry is able to develop more energy-efficient and climate-friendly products and practices. It is important to support innovations leading to the development of policies. One fuel for the future of transport is often referred to as hydrogen, which has very good characteristics. Of course, it takes energy to make hydrogen. With regard to the greenhouse effect, the highly significant gas is methane, which plays a 25-fold role as a greenhouse gas compared to carbon dioxide. This means that 1 kg of methane is equivalent to 25 kg of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere. For example, methane is produced in landfills, even decades after landfill closures. In some landfills in Finland, too, this gas is collected. By using methane as a fuel, we prevent it from entering the atmosphere to destroy the climate, and we also produce much less carbon dioxide than fossil fuels. Finland has expertise in the production of biogas and companies that manufacture biogas from waste. This activity is very much to be welcomed in terms of both climate and energy production. By supporting these companies through political decision-making, we will be able to create new growth, which also has strong export potential. Exports will enable us not only to improve the economic situation but also to strengthen the same climate-friendly change in the rest of the world. Methane and liquid biofuels can already be used as fuel for trains, ships and even aircraft. Mr President! Discontinuation of coal is a major change in Finland's energy policy. By replacing the use of coal with the use of domestic energy wood, we replace a significant amount of fossil fuels with domestic renewable energy. By using domestic energy wood, we will strengthen our energy self-sufficiency while creating new jobs and economic growth for the forest sector. Even in Finland, when transport is a major source of carbon dioxide emissions, we have turned our eyes to electric cars, whose development has been very promising in recent years. The increase in the number of electric cars in Finland has been hindered by their still high purchase price compared to traditional cars. With the right decision-making, we will be able to increase both the number of electric cars in our country and, possibly, the industry related to electric cars at normal prices in our country. Mr President! We are about to make a very significant change, which will significantly reduce the emission load on the environment. When decisions are taken, care must be taken to ensure that not only the decision taken but also the timetable for implementation is the right one and allows real change to take place. Finland has expertise and potential companies in the production of clean energy. Political decision-making must enable these experts to operate in the interests of the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u141	Mr President! Bolivia has been declared an emergency. It has the worst drought in 25 years and cities have been left without water. The temperature in the polar areas is 20 degrees lower than normal and the ice cover has decreased. This news of the last few days is a harsh language about how climate change is progressing. Our generation is the last to prevent the catastrophic effects of climate change by curbing the rise in temperature to below 2°C. The Government’s climate and energy strategy now presented is needed. It fulfils the EU's target of achieving a 40% emission target for Finland. However, 40% is not enough to meet the commitments of the Paris climate agreement. A more ambitious climate policy is needed from both the EU and Finland. The proposals of the climate and energy strategy are a good start and take steps in the right direction. However, it is not particularly ambitious. We need longer steps and more speed. We can do better than that. The goal must be to get rid of fossils during the 2030s. Mr President! The strategy's approach to the ban on coal is, in itself, the right ambition. The government, on the other hand, has a blind spot for peat, whose climate, environmental and health effects are even greater than coal. Its energy use should also be abandoned with time. Another blind spot is in supporting fossil fuels. At the same time, it is divisive to spend a billion dollars on various forms of fossil energy tax subsidies and to seek significant emission reductions. The climate and energy strategy relies heavily on bioenergy and in particular on increasing the use of wood. There are many problems with which the government has wanted to close its eyes. According to the strategy, bioenergy is used as a source of forest logging by-products instead of roundwood. However, by-products will not increase unless the number of forest fellings is increased from now on. The increase in fellings cannot be achieved without endangering biodiversity. The increase in felling also means reducing existing carbon sinks, as the strategy states. Reducing carbon sinks has the same effect as increasing emissions. No one today would think of increasing emissions in order to mitigate climate change. However, the government is prepared to reduce the number of sinks. Wood raw material should always be directed to the best climate practice: where it remains a long-lived carbon sink, such as construction. The production aid for forest chipping electricity is now also paid for wood that is suitable for industrial raw material. It doesn't make sense. It is also not reasonable to use stocks. They should be left on the ground as carbon sinks. In fact, instead of wood, more arable biomass and waste should be used as a source of biofuels. For example, farm biomass can provide up to 22 terawatt hours per year, which is more than the government’s planned use of peat. Mr President! Biofuels are also seen as a solution on the transport side. However, there is a limited amount of raw material in the world for biofuels. Its use should therefore be concentrated where there is no substitute technology: heavy traffic, long-distance public transport, maritime transport and air transport. In passenger cars and local transport, it is worth investing in electric cars and buses and in light traffic. Mr President! In its focus on bioenergy, the government gives little consideration to other forms of renewable energy — unfortunately, as the global export market is primarily waiting for wind and solar power and energy for technological development. The strategy does not recognise the extent of the benefits of energy efficiency. The new solutions offer an opportunity for cuts, and as technology develops, the opportunities will only increase. Nevertheless, the strategy has been based on an increase in energy consumption of 46 terawatt-hours, although the aim should be to reduce consumption. It would be important to encourage the public sector to participate in energy projects by using public procurement as an instrument. Similarly, there is considerable potential for improving the energy efficiency of buildings in both the public and private sectors. It is regrettable that the energy renovation repair grants have been cut. Mr President! Finally, the fight against climate change requires an ambitious climate and energy policy. The strategy now presented is the right start. However, we cannot be lulled into the fact that it is enough for a long time. That is why the momentum needs to be further tightened and the steps extended, because the opportunities for future generations depend on our solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u142	Mr President! The carbon-free Finland campaign organised a demonstration of the government's energy and climate strategy. It does not propose rapid measures to reduce the use of coal, and the government is even going to increase the combustion of peat. Carbon-neutral Finland is possible as early as the 2030s, and coal in heating must be abandoned as early as 2025, so that the world does not warm up by more than 1.5 degrees. The Government leaves the door open to coal in Finland, it could still be used as a safe fuel after 2030 and as coke in the process industry. Yes, the government has no intention of considering alternatives to coke. Coke is coal made by dry distillation of coal. The main use of coke is the manufacture of steel, where the coal contained in coke acts as a reducing agent. You could replace coke with bio-based reductionrs. In the long term, fossil fuels, including coke, will run out and become increasingly expensive. The use of biomass in the steel industry may be one option, but it must first be processed into charcoal. The Government is planning to increase the use of biomass in electricity and heat production and as biofuels in transport. Biomass makes sense to replace products made from fossil raw materials, such as plastics, oils, binders, packaging and chemicals, and it is sustainable to replace concrete with wood construction. However, the use of government biomass is excessive. It reduces carbon sinks in forests and threatens biodiversity. The reduction of sinks is the same thing from the climate point of view as the increase in emissions. Climate change must be combated in the reality surrounding us and not only on paper. From a climate point of view, it is not sustainable to release much coal for the next couple of decades in the belief that it will be enough if, after a decade, forests bind the amount released. Of course, the biomass distribution plays a role in the energy mix, but it is not a sustainable solution for climate or nature to replace all fossil energy. Increasing the share of bioenergy in energy production should be considered moderate and sufficient sustainability criteria should be set for its use. Nature can't handle anything. The improved use of biomass has already changed the age structure of forests in such a way that old forests have been depleted and their species are threatened. Peat-lifting takes homes from swamps, spoils local drinking water and causes large emissions to the air. The procurement appropriations for nature conservation areas must be returned to at least the same level as before the current government term. Government support for renewable energy is limited to 2018-2020, with a modest target of 2 terawatt hours. For example, there are now some 6 terawatt hours of completed or pre-authorised wind turbines. The tender itself must be supported and cost-effective. The government does not propose any concrete support for small production. The Green Small Energy Programme would boost biogas plants, geothermal heat and low solar energy production in farms. In particular, there is potential for the conversion of public buildings to geothermal heat, and solar energy must also be made an attractive alternative to housing companies, blocks of flats and terraced houses. It requires changes to the Electricity Market Act and the extension of the household allowance. Improving energy efficiency and genuinely emission-free renewable sources such as geothermal energy, heat pumps, waste heat recovery, solar heat, smart demand response and other new solutions are also essential in urban heat production. The geothermal thermal power plant in Otaniemi, Espoo, is a good example. It can produce one third of Espoo’s district heat needs. New innovations in electricity storage are central to electricity production. One important issue is resource efficiency. The less we consume virgin raw materials and energy, the less emissions are generated. Another key issue is sustainable consumer choice. Information and incentives are needed to make sustainable choices. We have to leave the black Friday shopping riots in the past. The EU's climate work lacks ambition. In emissions trading, the price control of emissions does not work and therefore renewable energy still needs subsidies and instruments. Finland and the EU must cut emissions by 60% by 2030 in order to meet the Paris obligations. We already have the key to a solution in the fight against climate change: all the necessary information and technology exists. Let's put them in place for our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u143	Mr President! A good debate today on the energy and climate strategy, which is very deep green and looks to the future. It is, of course, based on international agreements, in which we have a strong advantage over the idea that hard work must be done at national level to reduce global warming. I am particularly touched by the need to raise the domestic level of energy production. We are still too dependent on imported energy, and when the degree of domesticity is increased, it also means employment in Finland. From the point of view of security of supply, it is also very acceptable. The interconnection between Sweden and Finland is a good Nordic cooperation, and it was encouraging to hear that it is also possible to obtain European Union investment support for this project and the green light for it. Today's strategy is historic. We are heading towards a fossil-free society, and by 2030 we will be giving up coal. There is a great deal to do both locally and nationally. Especially when heating Helsinki and Espoo with coal and fossil fuels in the Helsinki region, I would like these municipalities to show the advantage of becoming Hinku municipalities, where carbon neutrality has hard objectives and strategies, for example, in public procurement or vehicles used, so that they go and transport electric cars. In transport fuels, we have a lot to do. It is an opportunity for us as an export product and an employment project, so that in 15 years’ time there will be about 250,000 electric cars and 50,000 gas cars. The share of biofuels in the blending ratio of transport fuel to 30% is also a hard target and is to be supported. The charging and distribution network must be promoted so that we can achieve the renewal of the car fleet and the continued presence of low-emission means of transport for passenger cars and also for public transport. Also, travel chains in terms of reducing fuel will reduce these negative impacts on nature, and the traffic cycle is one of the important issues that Parliament is currently deciding on. We are therefore heading towards a bio- and circular economy, which includes sorting, incineration and, as a result, the use of energy and the use of residues. The additional resources for wind, solar and hydropower are also considerable and must be deployed. Much has been said today in Parliament about the importance of forests and the future. I consider it an important climate action that forests will continue to be Finland's carbon sink, the carbon sink of the whole earth, and must also be brought to the level that they deserve in these international agreements. But only growth is binding on CO2 emissions, that is, forest growth, and that is why I think it is important that sustainable development is involved all the time. At the moment, we do not even use an annual growth rate of wood. There's a lot of potential there. In particular, processing is the first stage for which we want to use wood primarily, but after that there will certainly also be enough forest biomass to be used as a bio-raw material, as a raw material for alternative transport fuels. So our energy expertise is high. Why not also refine energy into an export product? New solutions and smart grids are the future. They provide us with export products and therefore encourage us to make national decisions but also to export our expertise to the world. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the left in particular for raising the issue of decentralised energy production by Mr Modig. It was encouraging to hear that each of us would be an energy producer and, for example, we would have access to plus-brand energy production in energy houses, where additional electricity generation, such as solar power, could be fed into the national grid when there is plenty of solar energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u144	Mr President! Good debates have been held here and quite consistent, including on the opposition side, but I am a little critical. We in Finland have such a style that if There is a waste raft the size of Finland in the Pacific Ocean, and no matter how hard we knock on a hairless chest, there is nothing about it. As far as the Paris Agreement and the energy and climate strategy are concerned, we have a leading industry in Finland, but we have obligations compared to Poland, for example, which is one of the biggest in the world. But if we are going to go into practice — I am going to have to spell out these things here — then let us take Mr Soini here and Mr Terho: They are starting to lose weight, the goal is the same. Who do you think it's easier for, the one who doesn't already have, or the one who does? Now, however, we are blackmailing ourselves here from the screws to the strictest possible extent, and the industry will suffer for this, and the final price is not known. But this was such a practical example that should be taken into account for such things. Mr President! In 2011, state aid for electricity generation for forest chips was decided. The imports were not covered by shells, sawdust and woodpeckers. That decision was very bad, like many other decisions taken by the previous government, because all wood waste except forest chips is contaminated in the yards of the sawmills. Due to energy support, forest chips are imported from Russia, even if there is plenty of fuel in the form of other wood waste in Finland. On several occasions in this Chamber, too, I have pointed out the inadequacy of the support for the horticultural power stations. With too little money, no one's gonna start a power plant. Less than a week ago, the Government published Finland's energy and climate strategy. At the same time, a new renewable energy support system independent of technology was announced. It also covers small-scale combined power plants using forest energy, i.e. sawdust, such as biting and bark. These CHP power plants produce both electricity and heat. Mr President! I am very pleased that the government has included small processing plants in the framework of the renewable energy support system. I believe that this change will speed up the investments in power plants. Many sawmill entrepreneurs have been tight, and they have now been heard by the government. They are particularly concerned by the inclusion of shells and bites. So far, the bits have rotted on the sawmills and lost their energy value. Significant forest investments are underway throughout Finland, including Äänekoski and Kemi. As a result, between 2 and 3 million cubic metres of logs will be released into the market and sawmills will pay 70 % of the carrying price. The sawmill industry must be competitively able to market products to the world. Energy support for sawmills is essential for the Finnish sawmill industry to be able to maintain its competitive position, and the support for the by-product is a significant part of it, because 1 sawn cubic round wood will otherwise become the same amount of waste. A solid cube of wood will be chipped into 2.3 cubic meters of wood. If this is how you calculate it, then the cube used also becomes a by-product of 1 cubic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u145	Mr President! Today there has been a good debate on the government's proposal on biofuels, electric cars and renewable energy. I myself am focusing on transport fuels, and a few words about electric cars. In my opinion, transport fuels are the opportunity that the government must invest in. Finnish biofuel technology is well developed today, but I believe that the investments in it are important and far-reaching for the future. In my opinion, this is a good circular economy, and biofuels are already suitable for almost all modes of transport, including heavy goods transport, passenger cars and air transport, according to current technology. In addition to biofuels, the options for electricity, hydrogen and gas have been discussed here. In all three other options, the distribution network is one of the things to be invested in, but the supply is still not in line with demand today. The charging points for electric cars and hydrogen cars are not yet in the condition to solve this major problem, but even for biofuels there is no problem, i.e. the distribution network is already in place. In his own speech, Minister Rehn raised the issue of increasing the obligation, and I believe that this is one of the most important issues that could solve this big issue, the big picture. An increase in the 10% biomix already reduces emissions by 1 MB, and when compared to electric cars, we would need 500,000 electric cars to reach the corresponding amount. The government's objective of 250,000 electric cars in the future is therefore a challenge and must be pursued, but this great target cannot be reached very easily by this problem of electric cars alone. 3.6 Mt's goal is therefore challenging, and in order to achieve this, only electric cars should have 1.8 million electric cars in Finland. In my opinion, it is neither realistic nor even worth pursuing in the sense that, apart from the lack of technology for the distribution of electric cars, the problem of the manufacture and disposal of batteries, among other things, is still unresolved. A few weeks ago, the committee visited the electric bus manufacturing plant in the President's homeowner's office, and when I asked the engineer how much that battery weighs, I received a reply of 900 kilos. And when I asked how it was to be destroyed when it had filled the miles, the engineer said that the question was still unresolved. So there are many challenges, too, but I certainly hope that this technology for clean electric cars will develop, and it will be an opportunity for Finnish excellence. Biooil investments will hopefully continue to receive the support of the Government and future parliaments, as they secure the availability of Finnish forests, Finnish employment and safe domestic fuel. I therefore hope that the government will make new openings in these matters during its own term of government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u146	Mr President! In Central Finland, Vice-President Pekkarinen has a small and rapidly ageing multia municipality, an ageing and low-population municipality. It has been calculated that about 20 percent of this Multia bog has been studied and found suitable for peat production. At the current price, the wealth value of the swamps is approximately EUR 200,000 per municipality. In other words, less than 2,000 inhabitants of Multia will not have a sustainability deficit in this respect if peat bogs are municipalised. In particular, the Greens in this Chamber and also in Brussels claim that peat is not renewable, but it has been scientifically proven many times that peat bogs grow by about one million a year. This growth means that a hectare produces about 10 cubic metres of peat per year. The amount corresponds to about 1000 litres of fuel oil, and its average price is about EUR 800 on average, depending of course on where to buy it. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: who has a forest with an annual yield of EUR 800 per hectare? That's a lot. In Finland, the average annual growth of trees is about 8 cubic metres per hectare, and one may wonder what kind of wood it is to receive 100 euros per cubic hectare on a continuous basis. All I can think of is the viscous birch, which is sold not by cubes but by kilos — so that the viscous birch could be, but nothing else. With this simple example, everyone in this Chamber understands and understands what kind of national property we are talking about when we talk about land peat, of which only a fraction is suitable for peat production. There is plenty of land and tendons that are not suitable for peat production for basic training for skiers, swamp kickballs, and even for the collection of strikes and cranberries, even after the use of peat. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not all. Once the peat bog has been restored to its post-ice position, it can be planted with bioenergy - producing sweats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u147	Mr President! The Government's energy and climate strategy is ambitious and ambitious, but it is also feasible. However, it requires action from all of us, and I must admit that there is certainly a change of attitude. Finland is a special country because we have a cold winter and long distances. It is clear that energy consumption in our country is already at a very high level, naturally. However, that does not mean that we cannot have a genuine desire to reduce energy consumption and shift consumption to cleaner forms of energy. The present government has that determined, goal-oriented goal. The Government has determined to take steps to bring about energy change and halt climate change, including by aiming to replace coal with renewable fuel by 2030. This is a very important and very worthy line. According to the strategy, the use of renewable energy will be increased to 50% of energy consumption. Transport generates about 40% of emissions and therefore represents a very large part of the reduction target. The fastest way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport is to replace existing fuels in transport with renewable and less emission-intensive fuels, which fortunately are already being developed and produced in Finland, and they have also proved to be effective. It is therefore necessary to reduce the amount of oil imported from abroad and to switch to domestic fuels. Adding bio-components is the fastest way to increase the environmental performance of fuels. The inclusion of a substantial increase in the number of electric cars in the palette of renewable fuels makes it possible to achieve significant reductions in emissions in transport. Electric cars are still very expensive today, and the charging network should also be developed considerably in the coming years. I sincerely believe that, especially in public transport, electric buses have a bright future. The built environment plays an important role in Finland’s greenhouse gas emissions. It is not the same with which buildings are heated or how the necessary electricity is produced or with which materials the buildings are built. It is good that the government is also increasing the use of wood in construction and making it easier to use wood in construction. We need to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, promote, for example, the production of solar energy and solar heat and storage. Similarly, intelligent building technology systems must be continuously developed. However, these systems must be such that people also know how to use them, and that is the key. In this context, it is good that the current amendment to the Land Use and Building Act in Parliament facilitates and clarifies, among other things, the installation of solar panels and solar collectors in buildings. Mr President! We decision-makers have a duty to stop climate change. At the same time, we have a duty to manage our own property here in Finland as well as possible and to defend the interests of Finns. I firmly believe that those who are active in renewable energy, energy saving and the development and exploitation of new technologies in the vanguard will continue to take the lead in a huge technology market in the future. Finland must stand up for itself in these matters too, and I believe that Finland will also have export opportunities in the future in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u148	Mr President! I have already wondered a few times in this Chamber about the use of this word 'honourful' when it comes to climate change. Repeatedly, it is beginning to have comical features in the mind of the successor. I wonder what honor we are coveting, and who will give us that glory? Page 26 of the report describes how greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced and the word "burden sharing" is mentioned in Finnish terms. History has taught us that in practice it is a matter of sharing the burden from the south to the north at EU level. I have very little credit, if at all, for the current EU burden-sharing decision, as the recent memory still has the unfortunate interest of Finns in emissions trading and, of course, the recent issue of the sulphur directive. I therefore call for this burden-sharing at all levels of further preparation. Mr President! Finland should reduce emissions by 16% by 2020 compared to 2005 levels. No doubt we will be doing well on this road after eight years of recession when our energy-intensive industry suffers from a lack of demand. But the sad root of these agreements and objectives at European level is that, because of the climate, we are suffering from this northern life and our energy-intensive industry. This old industry, as the Greens call it, should not be driven down. Finnish work must be defended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u149	Värderade Herr Talman! Här har sagts mycket klokt under de Senaste fyra timmarna som jag inte ska upprepa.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u150	Mr President! The Government's energy and climate strategy is very closely in line with the Government's programme. At some point it does not quite reach what the program says; at another point it adds a little more to what it says in the Government Programme. With regard to the renewable, bio-based, fuel blending obligation, the government spoke of a 40% target, now the government is proposing 30%, and, accordingly, the government is taking even a little bolder steps to promote the use of electric cars and biogas cars in the right direction than what has been said in that programme. However, I asked for the floor because Mrs Myller mentioned my name, my speech or my article in public, which I have said or written. It related to what the Finnish tree is enough for. It is true that even if Finland’s entire annual forest growth were transformed into energy, it would not be enough to consume nearly what energy consumption in Finland is. The fellings in Finland are currently 60 million solid cubic metres per year. If 60 solid cubic meters are converted into energy, it means about 120 terawatt hours of energy. Finland's total energy consumption is about 300 terawatt hours. In fact, annual fellings are only enough for a good third, clearly less than half, of what Finland consumes energy. This, however, was little used by Mrs Myller as a justification for the fact that wood fractions would not be sufficient for energy needs to the extent that the government proposed. I completely disagree with Mr Myller here. What I have just told you about these quantities is probably true, but it is worth remembering that when 100 units of wood are brought to the processing site at all, about 50 units will eventually be driven into energy production in one way or another. Thus, both the additional use of industry and the ever-increasing potential for the utilisation of energy wood will be very much available over the next decades, the next 20 to 30 years. More of a problem is whether the programme, what the government is proposing here, and the means it sets out to increase the use of renewable energy, in particular the use of bioenergy fractions, are sufficient to achieve what the government is trying to achieve in its programme. Well, I do not think that the means are there, but I understand that the government will be made public in the future by the means by which the good objectives that the government rightly sets out here will be implemented. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, in addition to everything else, CHP, i.e. combined production of electricity and heat, where there is a great deal of bio-division available, demand is limited. This is the opportunity for demand — i.e. more access, more access to bio-divisions there — in the eight to nine large coastal coal plants. It is quite absurd to see that these localities, which own these coal plants, including the municipalities of the Helsinki region in particular, have done nothing decent and real to transform their use of coal into the use of bio-based fractions. During the first nine months of this year, the use of coal has not decreased in Finland but increased by 19 per cent. This is a pretty lousy development. In order to achieve these objectives in practice, the key to this is that even before this law enters into force, which will put an end to the use of coal, these municipalities will take very rapid action to transform coal plants into bio-based fuels. But even that is not enough to make use of the amount of bio Jakes we have available. Although those coal plants are converted into bio-using CHP plants, we also need a lot of uses for these wood-based bio-divisions, and that is precisely where the more significant increase in transport fuels... At the moment, no one here will remember that the current law already provides that 20% must be renewable by 2020. This is just an increase of 20 now to 30% over the next ten years. At present, 13.5 % of the fuel in transport is renewable — from 0 to 13.5 in six years. In the next 14 years, it will only be about doubled. I don't think that's very much. My message is that the substantial increase in the use of bio-based fuel for transport, both in liquid fuels and in biogas fuels, as well as in transport heating oil and also in machinery, is an option and a way of making much more use of these bio-divisions. The Government's programme is a good line here; concrete steps are still awaited to promote them. I am confident that those measures will also eventually come from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u151	Mr President! This was a concrete programme for the government to implement in terms of how the use of coal can be achieved before 2030. It is a very good idea that existing wood residues — sawdust, biting — should be used to replace coal in those CHP plants. I also agree that Finland should focus on biofuels, especially biofuels such as aircraft, ships. In this context, it can also be said that perhaps the sulphur directive was not so bad, because now ships are being forced to use biofuels and that is good for Finland. In fact, there has not been much talk of this sulphur directive in recent years. But then I want to say a few words about that turf. It is a question of CO2 emissions and they must be examined when we talk about peat. The price of peat could be the same as that of viscous birch if used as raw material for the cosmetics industry, for example. Peat is a precious raw material, but when burned it produces carbon dioxide emissions. Replacing this, for example, with other bio-based fuels, i.e. these wood-based fractions, is certainly a good thing. Since I have spoken here about the need for wood to be used for higher processing, I think there was a very informative speech here that coal should replace coal-based coke as a raw material for the steel industry. This is what I consider to be good and sensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u152	Mr President! Representative Hongisto here suggested that peat bogs grow at such a rate that peat could be used without concern, and peat could be considered renewable energy. Well, it is true that the swamp grows about half a mil a year, and this growth occurs when the moss and other remains of the bogs are laid down. However, these decomposing parts of plants are not peat as such and take between 5000 and 10,000 years depending on the nature of the bog so that the plant material is in such a form that it is peat that is incinerated, i.e. stored carbon that has left the cycle. When we talk about the future that is under discussion, and especially when we talk about combating climate change, we all understand that the 5000 or 1000-year period is in practice such that, in this perspective, it can be regarded as a non-renewable form of energy as it is, and it is by no means a solution to the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u153	Mr President! Of the shell and the bite, which the representative also mentioned. It is now driven from A to B — 60 percent water, that is, if the chipper weighs 320 kilos, there is 190 kilos of water — that is, when it is driven around Finland, it makes no sense. There is a solution to this: if a cravat dryer is placed in the drying and storage of the gum and bark there on site, then it can be driven further away. I don't think it's a good idea to move the water. And then when it comes to this aid for horticultural power stations, it must be renewed, completely abolished. The aid for the production of electricity, the ceiling for the heat premium, must be increased from the current EUR 750000 to EUR 4 million. This would allow the size classes of CHP boilers in sawmills and joint ventures to be 50 MW, of which the share of electric energy would be about 15 MW. It is estimated that 50 megawatts of wood chips would be created in Finland, with 40 million electricity generation aid per year, while wind power support is about 300 million per year. This would result in the production of distributed balancing electricity in the regions, Metsä-Suomi, in connection with sawmills, also in Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u154	Mr President! For the fifth hour now, very good speeches have been made in the Chamber on the development of environmentally friendly energy production. If I were to start speaking on these energy issues, that would certainly be a repetition, for there are so many good options and things here. From this national energy and climate strategy to 2030 alone, from these headlines — reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, increasing the use of renewable energy, increasing renewable energy in transport, increasing self-sufficiency in energy supply, halving the energy use of imported oil and abandoning the energy use of coal — all of which, a lot of good speeches have been made today. But what do we do to ensure that these are not mere speeches? There are a lot of concrete proposals in this booklet, too, and I really hope that we will start producing these in this Chamber, as in other places, for practical measures. What are we supposed to do? First of all, we in this Chamber must try to make decisions so that we can actually, in concrete terms, implement this programme. This is so important and important. This has to be our number one priority in many areas, so that we can really move forward in this development. We can no longer be in the current situation; we need to make changes. We need to make legal changes, we need to make big financial decisions. We must be prepared to make major investment aid decisions for different levels of activity. First of all, we must be prepared to support major investments aimed at implementing this programme. But then we also need to find a lot of money so that we can implement decentralised energy solutions. We all need to be able to support smaller solutions at home, because they allow us to save a great deal of energy and produce energy in an environmentally friendly way. In other words, we have very great opportunities in Finland. But what is our greatest chance? It's the young people of the future. I believe that this issue, young people and studies, has not been brought up enough in this booklet, or that I have not been able to listen enough to today's debates or to read this well enough. Young people are ready for new things. In my opinion, education as its own section should have been brought up even more strongly and thought from the educational point of view of what we should start to do in the study sector in order to achieve these results: firstly, what is the part of education in high school? Today's kids in high school are thinking about their own future. They are very environmentally friendly, aware of how these things should be taken forward. What studies can we get them to study so that they can make decisions? What kind of training, sections, is there in vocational education, what is there in vocational education and training, let alone universities? I have now had a couple of visits to the activities of Lappeenranta University of Technology and their visions and ideas. Quite incredible activities, and they are not necessarily far from how we can achieve a new kind of technology and activity on our energy side to make real progress. And having all kinds of ideas and presentations would also be a huge export product for us. Indeed, this is an export product for us, to which we can grow young people to carry out these things. In other words, I really hope that we will have more and more money to spend on research, on the development of young people and on all kinds of education, so that we can make this programme happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u155	Mr President! Mrs Maijala has just spoken beautifully about the University of Lappeenranta, and as a representative from Lappeenranta itself, we must agree with these words. The only thing there is that the research side is in order, there is no reproach, but the commercial application of the results of these studies is one where both Lappeenranta and other parts of Finland could afford to learn, that is, how to sell the fine things that have been developed to someone who wants to pay for them. Chapter 3.11 talks about throat politics in this programme. It is difficult to understand how Finnish forestry and forest management are not understood in Brussels. For years, forests have been kept in first-class condition in this country, and Finland is the most forested country in the EU. The fact that there is a country like this here in Europe that has been taking care of its forests for ages and has not taken them out on the road to cities and farmland should receive special thanks and mention of the Union. Instead, we are offered the idea that our well-managed and increasingly net-growing forest would be a burden in comparison. I'm glad to see you, Minister. As I understand it, Mr Tiilikainen is well aware of this problem and Finland's lobbying is now in order. Good, if so, because history has taught us that the Minister for the Environment, clinging to ideology, can be a very expensive minister for Finns. Another area of concern to me in this energy and climate strategy is the attempt to achieve an unrealistic reduction in emissions from high-speed transport. Finns are a very practical people and they move on to things that support and work. However, electric cars are currently too expensive to purchase and their journey to operate is insufficient for Finland's distances and weather conditions. You can't force people to buy these electric cars, and not everyone can afford those new cars even if they want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u156	Mr President! To Mr Mäkelä: Why transport, why work machines, why fossil heating oil, which is used in homes, should and should be replaced with bio-based fuels, whether liquid bio-based or gaseous bio-based? Well, because the bio-divisions for which there is no more valuable use are now only available in principle for energy needs, and heat and electricity for energy needs are such that no more questions are asked about the bio-divisions. For example, all large inland cities, their CHP plants — they no longer need heat. And when there is no demand for that heat there anymore, it is not only electricity that is to be produced as condensed electricity, so that the electricity would be recovered and the heat would go into practice. It's not worth it. So, of course, we can produce electricity and heat, but it has its own limit on how many bio-divisions go there. Therefore, these bio-based alternatives should and should be used to replace transport, machinery and also domestic fuel oils. That is the right thing to do, and I think it is even more than the government says here. Representative Mäkelä paid attention to an important issue, and Eero Heinäluoma, a very important and good comment, was also paid to it during the day. We talk a lot about the fact that Brussels does not really understand what these forests in Finland are — and indeed that is the case, and yes, this is a big and important place to take care of. I don't go through it very far from history. That misinterpretation already started from Kyoto 1, and it was then that we were able to find out here until the half of the 21st century in the interpretation of how to deal with the change of forest to the needs of the community and with the sinks produced by forest growth. But in Durban a few years ago, this went to its last cheek with a decision made there, and now it threatens to go exactly the same way. In order to get this stupidity right in the right proportions, you should see how this same arrangement works for Germany. 1990 Germany had 13 times more emissions than in Finland. Even for Germany, when it was considered that 3.5% of the amount of German emissions at that time was the maximum that German forests can produce sinks, in practice the annual growth of German forests could mean 13 times the annual production of sinks in Finland — and the number of German forests is not much more than that of Finland. So German forests produce 13 times more sinks than Finnish forests, and this makes no sense, as we all understand. To correct this incomprehensibleness is the challenge that should be able to be overcome in the negotiations that are currently under way there. The roots of this problem are already there in Kyoto 1, but this was exacerbated during the previous government. I do not want to impose any more on Mr Niinistö then, but that is the way it turned out that this interpretation was concrete in the Durban decision, and now we are stuck in the EU in this same case. We really must be able to fix this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u157	Mr President! As a short comment to Mr Pekkarinen on this transport issue, I do not, of course, oppose the recycling of genuinely unnecessary materials for fuel or, for example, the incineration of waste. Of course, that's a sensible thing to do. We must bear in mind here that we are acting technologically neutral and going ahead with reason, not going ahead with ideology in these matters, but on the basis of facts. For example, we all know the fact that emissions measurements in cars today are not telling the truth. In the case of petrol cars, these consumptions show several litres less than the actual consumption. What, then, does the use of such instruments really tell us now? This worries me that we are using the wrong indicators and going ahead with ideology on these issues. It cannot be so that something is actually being changed. We need to know what we're doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u158	Mr President! As far as Mr Mäkelä's speech is concerned, I would like to clarify and add that there have been very good presentations and my wish is that, in order to get their ideas carried out, we will find proposals in this house on how we can finance these things. It's a lot of money. We must have the opportunity to present risk finance proposals that will give us these truly innovative, good proposals for implementation first in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u159	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u160	Mr President! I would like to present my legislative initiative to dismantle unnecessary red tape in the case of lotteryes organised by small associations. I believe that many of us in this House have been involved in the activities of many different associations and know how many associations depend on voluntary forces and small financial flows. However, the work of associations and various NGOs is very important. It creates meaningfulness in people's lives and fills gaps in the welfare society. I myself have been involved in many associations, and the situation is always the same: how do you get money? When I was younger, money was received from the municipality, the congregation, from various partners, but today everyone’s faucets are becoming closed. I think we should get some money in the register. And then... There are very few operators in the associations — especially those who could carry out a huge amount of paper bureaucracy after their busy working days. There are so few of them. That is why I have drawn up this legislative initiative aimed at reducing red tape, aimed at helping these third-sector players so that they can focus on that actual activity and not on running a paper show. In this bill, I propose that no separate licence should be required for the lotteries of less than EUR 2000 organised by the public benefit community. It's a small amount of money, but for a lot of associations, it's a very large amount of money. Today, all lotteries, except small lotteries sold and valued on the same occasion, must be subject to a lottery licence and must be accounted for. Small associations incur excessive costs for a few hundred euro lotteries in respect of lotteries and lottery returns. Even the required statement of revenue may not be sufficient but requires a specific explanation of the use of the return, even if this small amount of money is used to maintain the normal operation of the association concerned. Such requirements for ordinary laymen are totally unreasonable today — if you still wonder how many officials there run these papers and ask after them: even this kind of paper would be needed, and even this kind of paper would be needed. I am aware, among other things, of the case where, in addition to a proper statement of the proceeds of the EUR 400 lotteries, additional clarifications and a plan for which this very insignificant amount would be spent were required, at the risk that if the funds were not used before the next lotteries, then a new licence might not be granted. This can't be the point of a lottery when it's supposed to make it easier for them to raise funds. In practice, the funds of small associations go to, for example, invitations to meetings, rental expenses for meeting places, the organisation of coffees and modest events, the payment of small travel expenses, the simple organisation of activities for children and young people. In the bill, I also suggest that, if it is not a case of short-term lottery tickets currently authorised, the lottery executioner must keep the lottery account records for five years and then hand them over to the licensing authorities on request. This will enable us to monitor possible abuses, i.e. to achieve exactly the same result as at present. The raffle executioner may be ordered to indicate where and how the raffle is drawn in connection with the raffle list, so that the integrity of the raffle may be monitored by an external body if necessary. Mr President! I know that, on the sole initiative of the law, these matters rarely move forward, but I hope that this issue will be addressed in the drafting of the law. This red tape is now moving forward in a great many sectors, and I really hope that this is still an issue for this parliamentary term, which will also be completed. This would help to activate the activities of small associations, which is definitely in the interests of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u161	Mr President! In short, this bill is a worthy piece of bureaucracy, given the fact that today the Finnish association field, which is quite extensive, is constantly getting old and needs new powers to run the business and money is sorely needed. This kind of deregulation improves the ability of associations to buy money. I believe that the initiative has not only taken into account the practical life of associations, the difficulties that this bureaucracy has created, but has also taken into account how to prevent the abuse of the rules that have loosened the law. I wish the legislative initiative every success in the follow-up process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u162	Mr President! I personally welcome this initiative by Mrs Maijala. We know that the eternal concern of associations and organisations is fund-raising, and if we can only facilitate it by facilitating these licensing practices in the case of lotteries, it is certainly welcome for associations. Now this kind of so-called miniature cargo can be considered without permission if the lotteries are sold together in a closed space and also the distribution of profits takes place in the same context. Well, in practice, associations quite literally follow this and little take their own liberties in what is considered to be one place or a closed space. In that sense, too, this bill would actually do what might happen in the field and what is the practice, even legal. This would also help to ensure that, once licences have been specified for some things, they would also be carried out properly, but then the licensing practice would be made easier so that small lotteries would not really have to apply separately. This would reduce the bureaucracy that is currently present in the associations. It's hard to find who did this to run that bureaucracy. In my opinion, the bill also takes note of the fact that this would not be circumvented, but that the total annual amount would be 2000 in all, i.e. one larger or several smaller lotteries without permission, as long as that amount was not exceeded. A very good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-30-ps-123.u163	Mr President! When I have discussed this bill on various sides, with various parties, everyone has been very grateful and has hoped that this issue will be brought through as soon as possible. Some have already asked whether next year we will be allowed to hold a lottery on the basis of this law. I hope we can manage these things, because our associations, our organisations, need this very much. Finland is the promised country of associations and organisations. Our job in this house is to think about how we can help this Finnish model, because it is of international importance, how well we have the associations organized, they have managed their papers and everything else. Just as Mr Mikkonen has just said about the legality of this activity in the associations, the basic element of the Finnish person is that he wants to be legal in his actions, and then it is disgusting when, in leisure time, you have to act a little bit on the cake, that this is certainly legal, that I am allowed to do this. Yes, we must help that, when our working life is so hard and tough today, even leisure activities would be such that it would not be possible to act in such a way that it does not feel illegal. We could work on these things for us. Thank you also for your support, and we will continue to take this matter forward.
