ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 20/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u2	Mr President! I propose that Article 156a be read as follows: takes the form of an objection to the committee's report 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u3	Värderade Talman! Jag understöder. I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u4	Satu Hassi, supported by Anders Adlercreutz, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u5	Mr President! I suggest that the article take its form as opposed to objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u6	Värderade Talman! Jag understöder. I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u7	Satu Hassi, supported by Anders Adlercreutz, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u8	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 35/2016 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 15 December 2016. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 23. The general discussion on the section ended at the plenary session on 14 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u9	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 25. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u10	I meant to vote differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u11	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u12	Mr Yanar's proposal 2 and Mr Wallin's proposal 3 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against proposal 3 and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u13	Krista Kiuru's proposal 6 and Antero Laukkanen's proposal 7 concern the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 7 proposals 6 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u14	Kari Uotila's proposal 8, Stefan Wallin's proposal 9 and Krista Kiuru's proposal 10 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the 10 proposals, then against the 8 that have won, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u15	Kari Uotila's proposal 11, Antero Laukkanen's proposal 12 and Stefan Wallin's proposal 13 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 13 proposals 12, then against 11 that have won, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u16	Mr Yanar's proposal 14 and Mrs Kiuru's proposal 15 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 15 against 14 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u17	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of Section 26. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u18	Kari Uotila's proposal 4 and Stefan Wallin's proposal 5 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on proposal 5 against proposal 4 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u19	Kari Uotila's proposal 9, Päivi Räsänen's proposal 11 and Krista Kiuru's proposal 12 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the 12 proposals, then against the 9 that have won, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u20	In paragraph 15, we had to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u21	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u22	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 28. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u23	Krista Kiuru's proposal 4, Ozan Yanari's proposal 5, Kari Uotila's proposal 6 and Stefan Wallin's proposal 7 relate to the same appropriation. First of all, we will vote against proposals 5 and 6 of the same content, against the proposal by Stefan Wallin, against the proposal by Mr Yanar and Mr Uotila, against the proposal by Mrs Kiuru, who has won, and against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u24	Antero Laukkanen's proposal 10 and Stefan Wallin's proposal 11 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the 11 proposals, then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u25	Mr President! In paragraph 20, I intended to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u26	Mr President! In paragraph 20, I intended to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u27	Mr President! In paragraphs 16 and 25, I intended to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u28	Mr President! In paragraph 20, I also intended to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u29	Mr President! Paragraph 20 meant to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u30	Mr President! Paragraph 29 also had to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u31	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u32	Section 24 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u33	Mr President! The operational expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration is set at approximately EUR 220 million, of which more than half is allocated to the activities of the Delegation Network. The Committee welcomes the fact that the economic situation of the network of delegations is being balanced. The Committee stresses that a flexible and appropriate presence in the world is a source of knowledge and influence. This will increase Finland’s security and well-being. It is also important to emphasise resources for countries whose political and economic importance for Finland is increasing. The committee notes that the role of delegations is central to Finland's financial interests. The committee welcomes the fact that several Finnish delegations have recruited experts focusing on commercial issues to strengthen the Team Finland network. However, the Team Finland model still needs to be developed, and the committee expects more concrete results from it in terms of promoting exports and tourism and getting investments in Finland. The committee also notes that the mission network has contributed to the increased number of asylum seekers and related family reunification processes in 2015. [President MariaLohela : RepresentativeNiikko,wait a moment. — Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to ask you to move all these other debates outside the Chamber, so let us focus on the speeches from this podium. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u36	The next item is the speeches by the ministers. First Minister Soini, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u37	Madam President! Finland's foreign and security policy aims to strengthen our country's international position, secure Finland's independence and territorial integrity, and improve the safety and well-being of Finns. Under my leadership, the resources of the State Department have been made to serve this purpose. I have set the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as operational priorities for increasing stability in the Baltic Sea region, deepening foreign policy cooperation with Sweden, developing Arctic policy, strengthening transatlantic cooperation and mediation. There is a growing need for all of these. The security policy situation in Europe is tense and, furthermore, difficult conflicts, large-scale refugeeism, increased terrorism and the major challenges facing the international economy require a clear and well-considered and adequately resourced response. The committee stresses, quite rightly, that a flexible and meaningful presence in the world is a source of knowledge and influence that increases the security and well-being of Finland. The economic situation of the representative network is becoming more balanced, but cost-effectiveness is constantly being sought, for example, through cooperation with the Nordic countries and through the development of services. The resources of the Foreign Affairs Administration are emphasised in those countries whose political and economic importance for Finland is increasing. This year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will raise Finnish offices in Bogotá in Colombia and Yangon in Myanmar to embassies. This government will not stop embassies, unlike some of the previous ones. As the committee has also pointed out, it is also necessary to combine Finland's financial interests with trade policy and Team Finland cooperation to increase security and well-being: for example, in Tehran, New York, Ottawa and Ankara, skills are strengthened for this purpose. It is welcome that a working group set up by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will assess the development needs of the concept more extensively. This will create administrative challenges for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we are already preparing for. The report stresses that the costs for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the security and security of the mission network are a considerable expenditure item. Due to the nature of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' work, the joint project of central government is also challenging. I will ensure that we continue to examine the report raised by the committee on the fact that, for example, in Norway and Denmark, the Foreign Service is not obliged to use joint services to the same extent. The role of the representation network has also been increased by the increased number of asylum seekers and the related family reunification processes in 2015. In its report, the committee stresses that immigration must be controlled. The committee welcomes the communication by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Ministry of the Interior, on the countries of origin and transit of asylum seekers. The report of the Committee on Finance proposes an additional allocation of EUR 250000 for 2017. I consider this resourceisation to be justified so that we can continue to operate effectively. From 2017, the appropriations for state aid will be made publicly available. It is a great thing that the committee agrees with the change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its report and considers it justified to change the allocation criteria for this item. We therefore agree that this change will increase fairness by giving new players the opportunity to apply. As stated in the budget, this appropriation may be used for the payment of State grants to organisations related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ activities. The Ministry will, of course, take note of the fact that the assistance activities also support the work on Finland's long-term international commitments and obligations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u38	Now, Minister Mykkänen, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u39	Mr President! First of all, when we are living in a very tragic day in the Syrian crisis, perhaps it should be said that, apart from the fact that, of course, diplomatic efforts are also active in Finland, as Mr Soini said yesterday during Question Time, we have devoted some EUR 25 million this year, especially in order to resolve the humanitarian situation in Syria — that is more than a quarter of our humanitarian aid budget — and also next year, of course, we are prepared to see that this crisis and the crises in its neighbourhood will be a key part of our humanitarian work, and we will place particular emphasis there, in accordance with the general priorities of our report, on the organisation of education for women and children, particularly in refugee camps. We will now be hosting here in Helsinki on 24 January, at the request of the UN Refugee Agency, the Humanitarian Aid Organisation and the Development Organisation (UNDP) Directors-General, the launch of the first and subsequent year's aid plan for Syria, in particular to see how Finnish organisations and Finnish companies can also be part of reconstruction in these areas and also, of course, as part of crisis assistance during the time when reconstruction has not yet been achieved. In general, development aid: First of all, the framework, broadly defined our development aid contributions, about EUR 880 million next year. A slight increase in the ODA percentage, to 0.40 next year, of around EUR 37 million in actual development aid appropriations for this year. Basic distribution: Around EUR 150 million for bilateral country-specific work with ten partner countries. About EUR 150 million for work with UN organisations and the World Bank, where, in the case of UN organisations, a strong emphasis is placed on UNFPA and UN Women, which unfortunately do not have too many friends in this world situation, and the risks are growing on that side. About EUR 70 million for humanitarian aid. Around EUR 65 million of direct support for Finnish NGOs, including some Finnish organisations in bilateral programmes. And about EUR 50 million through the European Union's common development fund. This is the basic division. Furthermore, on the side where our stakes and resources are growing strongly, there is an investment-based risk-sharing funding in which we can now mobilise Finnfund's EUR 130 million capital injection, which has been made in this year. I know that the proposals for amendments contain proposals to withdraw this funding, which has already been made and also to come up with, and I would say that it is difficult to understand when you consider that this funding is being used to provide more than 20 million people with clean electricity in areas where, by the way, charcoal is being burned and homework is being used to collect it, to create tens of thousands of jobs, of which women's jobs are more than a third, clearly higher than in the region, also to distribute 3.5 million micro-loans, not just through large investments, and to cumulate more than half a billion investments with this task alone. With regard to content weights, in the report in the spring, Parliament, by a large majority, accepted the starting point that women and girls are our first priority, both politically and also through the targeting of development aid. The creation of jobs is a different one, and in particular, increasing this investment-based risk-sharing funding to raise small entrepreneurship is, in my opinion, one where both the Momentum and we have the know-how to do it. Democracy and the capacity of societies will double the share of work aimed at improving the carrying capacity of taxation in our development cooperation funds by 2019 in a consistent way. We are a major tax power in Finland, and if the poorest developing countries could collect one percentage point more of GDP, it would be more than international development aid as a whole. And fourth, water, energy, sustainable use of natural resources. In fact, on this side it must be said that even if the real development funds have to be cut hard this year and next year, investment-based funding will increase our overall contribution to climate finance, for example. Many other countries are also using investment-based funding in it, and if we count it ourselves, we are in a growth direction, not in a downward trend, fortunately. We are also looking for more synergies between trade and development. On Monday I will launch a new form of public sector investment aid with approximately half the gift money, about half of the subsidised credit for such investments as waste management, water management, where the Finnish company is always on the other side of the market. I believe that this will also generate investments of hundreds of millions of euros over the next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u40	Now it's possible to have a debut. I'd like to request representatives to report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u41	Mr President! Of course, the budget is being made, as we are all well aware, in a difficult and challenging situation, and we are all embarrassed by the cuts made to development funds in particular. But in fact I wanted to remind you of the words of the then President of the Republic, Mauno Koivisto, in the recession of the early 1990s, when he pointed out that it was very difficult for the current account deficit — then there was a chronic current account deficit — to give out subsidies, and he also used it as an argument for these to be done at times. The introduction of a Finnfund-like instrument here: I think it's worth looking at Vietnam's development. After all, it was given very traditional development aid, there was a basis, but then the real development was speeded up when business and the potential of globalisation were made available. And now, what Finland is doing is a lot of elements to involve business in developing countries' investment, and I think it may bring surprisingly good results on what is traditional.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u42	Madam President! It is good to continue with this, namely that we have been very concerned, as Social Democrats, about this drastic, unprecedented cut in development funding this period. This level of funding, Mr Vanhanen and the honourable government parties, remains very far from what Finland's goal is and what this level was still last season. And that is why, in our alternative budget, we are proposing an increase of 100 million in development funds. President! In this context, I must say that I am also very sorry about the extent to which these cuts affect the operating conditions of non-governmental organisations. There is genuine concern in the field, and I would certainly require the government to take action to see these things through other kinds of spectacles and to patch up these rather drastic cuts that the government has made in this period. This is a big deal, there is no mention of any small money here, and I expect the government to correct its line in this connection. President! Once we have discussed these future, possible additional cuts to next spring's spending limits,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u43	Mr President! I'm sorry to make a little noise. — The question is what happens to the Team Finland system. Now the Minister has said that the Embassy Network is not being cut down, but Team Finland has not taken off quite as originally planned. And how do you connect Finpro and Finnfund to it? This is a bit like the question for both ministers now: how can we get this moving now so that we can achieve similar performances in this area as Swedes, for example, do in the world? Indeed, the resources are horribly much smaller. This question is quite serious now that we have to go internationally to sell high-tech Finnish technology.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u44	Madam President! An interesting debate is taking place on development policy, and that is good. It is quite clear that we need to build steps towards improving the funding of organisations in the longer term. It is clear that organisations are doing a very valuable job. But I am very pleased and glad that Finland has taken this picture, of which Minister Mykkänen has just told us that we really can offer clean electricity to the poorest countries and developing countries in the world, for example. That is the first condition that societies can develop. Environmental actions are being carried out all the time, Finnfund does excellent work in afforestation. We are far behind globally when forests have to be cut down all the time and we need to get these plantations done so that not all natural forests disappear. There is no point in putting these issues against each other, but I do of course think that the traditional development cooperation must certainly provide these organisations with more resources in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u45	Mr President! Of course, the issue is the proportionality of everything, and it is certainly the case that every euro can do something good. But it is a question of what political choices the government has made. And if you think that money is no longer being channelled in the same way to help the poorest countries and people, that is a major political change. That doesn't mean you can't do something sensible with that other money. But it is a choice that we should no longer be supporting the small 0.4% — which is also interesting, that we are so poor in this world as compared to all the other countries in the world, that we cannot afford to spend even 0.7% of our money on development funds, and we think that now we are no longer supporting the poorest countries in the world. It's a big change of line. In addition, it seems quite strange that EUR 250,000 will be spent on this information campaign. There are no matter how many other targets, even for these NGOs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u46	Mr President! The need to address the root causes of crises and, for example, the need to support the UN 2030 Agenda has only increased and this level of 0.4 is very low. The previous government had this mechanism in which emissions auction revenues were used for development cooperation, and I urge Minister Silk to develop, as a skilled economic agent, a similar system for stable growth in development cooperation funds. Mr Niikko regretted the cut in aid for organisations, which has been more than 40%. An example of what it can do to our other good projects, such as Honduras, where Finnfund is doing the Agua Zarca project, got into trouble with human rights issues. At the same time, the Church’s Foreign Aid closed its office there, closed down exactly when we needed this soft and human rights expertise to achieve these economic goals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u47	Mr President! I am surprised at the way the RKP views this information money, because the purpose of this information money is to give correct information to those who come here, to Finland and to Europe, because, of course, human smugglers themselves are also using social media in their marketing, and if we give correct information to people, we can avoid many unnecessary trips, including many victims in the Mediterranean, so that they do not drown there. We must remember that by October only 17% of all asylum applications for Iraqis, for example, have been resolved positively, and by 2014 this figure was 46%. This information is important to them because it is pointless to waste resources here all the way to Finland to come. And as far as development cooperation is concerned, it is vitally important to increase this cooperation with Finnfund and then to consider at the Ministry these internal transfers that the contribution of these Finnish development organisations can be increased in the future. Would the Minister have some kind of stone of wisdom for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u49	Mr President! The world situation is currently very unstable and requires constructive states that, through their own actions, eliminate poverty and safeguard the capacity of fragile countries to emerge from the instability that is increasing in many places. In this respect, these cuts in development cooperation are very sad, and I also point out that the least developed countries are: Finland is now putting only 0.14% of GDP in development aid, compared with 0.22 in the past, leaving much behind the recommendations. Then, Mr President, Minister, One thing I know about Soin is that it's important to take care of. In a state of justice, all people must have the opportunity, in terms of protecting human rights, to pursue their legitimate rights. Finland has already tightened its asylum policy a lot, but the even bigger problem with family reunification is that Syrians and Iraqis are forced to apply for family reunification permits from the Ankara Embassy, where it is very difficult to get to. Minister of the Interior Risikko said that he had submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it would also be possible to submit these applications in Tehran or Lebanon. Will you do something about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u50	Mr President! Regrettably, the low level of development cooperation appropriations will continue for next year, and particularly regrettable is the low level of organisational funding. Existing resources must therefore be used as efficiently as possible. The Government has shifted the focus to loan and investment financing, and I would like to ask: how will the effectiveness and coherence of loan and investment financing be improved in relation to Finland's general development policy principles and objectives? Different tools should not be put together, but all tools must work in the same direction. The implementation and monitoring of development cooperation projects requires work and human resources in the host countries in Finnish delegations. The resources of the delegations are scarce and are subject to many other pressures, such as: in relation to the development of export promotion. I would therefore like to ask: will the human resources allocated to the Finnish embassies be able to carry out all the work and objectives assigned to them?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u52	Mr President! There has been a great deal of debate on the development of defence cooperation and security policy in the European Union since the Brexit vote. While we are talking here about foreign policy, there is an EU summit in progress and there are obviously concrete and possibly very important decisions. A high-level online magazine of the Coalition Party Today reports in its recent news: "A new era began in the Union's defence policy. At its summit, the leadership of the Member States took the lead in deepening defence cooperation. Finland has been working with France and Germany for a year to develop a common EU defence. This is what Prime Minister Juha Sipilä said to the Web News at the summit that ended at midnight on Thursday." Decisions have been taken not only on the Defence Fund, apparently, but also on the EU's common agenda for this defence. And Minister Orpo has said in Brussels that Finland must be involved in all defence projects that are now developing. It would be necessary to provide Parliament with a quick explanation of what these policies mean, what Finland is committed to, what has been involved in the preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u53	President! A little too delicious in that speech, but I thought I would talk about something else in this context. Returning to the five-point programme of Mr Soin, which was a good priority but which has not been addressed in the House: however, when it comes mainly to budgetary policy, I am referring to one of these. The most cost-effective way to influence world crises is definitely mediation. I very much hope that the Minister will adhere carefully to the possibility of mediation in this five priority programme, strengthening and raising the profile of Finland and in cooperation with other Nordic countries and/or in cooperation with international organisations, which offer an excellent platform for furthering this activity. I hope that in this respect a good foreign ministry team will have enough oxygen to tune up their own measures and raise this profile.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u54	Madam President! I would have asked Foreign Trade Minister Mykkäs about this Team Finland too, especially from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises. There has been a great deal of discontent with the way in which the export efforts of SMEs have been met. In Sweden, 20% of exports are made by SMEs, we have around 12% to 14%. If we were to reach the Swedish level, that would mean some 100,000 new jobs. Secondly, here Mr Vanhanen said that this development aid cut is embarrassing for everyone. Well, I would like to believe that, but at the same time, unfortunately, the chairman of the Finnish People's Party is travelling on that provincial trip in Eastern Finland and states that the task of the state is not to transfer taxpayers' money to the benefit of the citizens of another state. In my opinion, this is a bit of a stir from the chairman of the parliamentary group of the government party, and I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin if you would support this view of the chairman of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u56	Mr President! The question wasn't put to me, so I'm gonna give the speech I was supposed to give. The quote was absolutely correct. I confirm this. I believe that the role of foreign policy is well defined here, and that resources must be directed precisely: that is to say, to promote the economy and to promote security, both nationally and globally. And in the speeches made by the ministers, I welcomed the news I heard of commercial experts coming to the delegations to promote Finnfund's activities and, on the other hand, that offices in economically important countries are being increased to embassies. This is a very good thing. Another thing that interests me as a former peacekeeper is crisis management. This, if anything, is the concrete contribution and help that actually sees the results and goes on the ground and ensures that the results are produced. The important thing here too is to be diverse, and I would like to ask that civilian crisis management has also been taken into account in resource management and not just military.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u57	Mr President! Yes, the Finnish people’s line is cold, and it is reflected in the entire government’s policy regarding helping people in need in the world. Asylum seekers' access to Finland on legal routes towards family reunification and so on they want to resist. The rhetoric says we have to help people where they leave. When we go to development aid, development aid will be cut, precisely the resource that would help people at the place of origin. When we propose an increase in the number of quota refugees for those who are certainly the most in need in the opposition, it is also opposed. Now here Mr Heinäluoma referred to the discussions in Brussels. After all, there was a specific discussion: the siege of Aleppo, the possible transfer to European countries of the wounded, in need of evacuation. According to public information, Prime Minister Sipilä did not take a completely negative view of this. Does Foreign Minister Soini come up with some good excuse to oppose it too?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u58	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma opened a rather important debate, which is also in line with budgetary policy. After all, the European Union is for many of us, all of us certainly, a security community — the focus has been on peace-keeping and crisis management — and now this message, which Mr Heinäluoma also raised, concerns the development of defence, the deepening of joint defence, perhaps in a rather significant way. There is talk of permanent structure, cooperation and so on and so on. Of course, we depend on the press. I ask you, Mr Foreign Minister: do you have something more specific to tell us at this stage about yesterday's European Council meeting, especially in relation to Finland? And paragraph 2, a little bit like what Mr Heinäluoma said: will Parliament be informed more than perhaps next week will be consulted on these perhaps important matters by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the large committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u59	Mr President! These cuts in development cooperation are regrettable. I'm sure no one would have wanted to do that. At the same time, I would also like to say that I think it is very important that the network of our delegations should be further developed from the point of view of developing exports, speeding up exports. The investments made are good,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u60	Mr President! It is a huge pity that Finland is so far behind the UN development objective. Humanly speaking, it is a really tough line for the poorest countries, and it will weaken Finland's influence internationally. It is in this world age that the human endurance of the nations should be supported. That is an important message from the opposition to you now, Ministers and a good government. Here too, the human sustainability of the nation should be supported, and in this respect, Minister Soini, NGOs and the functioning of civil society. You have now done something very strange in this budget, namely you have abolished the earmarked funding of NGOs in the field of foreign affairs. This raises the question as to why. Why can't you clearly say, for example, that we want to support the United Nations Union of Finland in its important work? Why do you want to commit the funding of NGOs to your government's foreign and security policy? This is very different in the European debate and even raises the question of whether there is any longer a desire in Finland to foster a free civil society, which is a prerequisite for liberal democracy. What are you, Minister Soini?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u62	Mr President! Finland’s foreign policy leadership generally likes to compliment us on the good bilateral relations we have with Russia. Let's talk about a special relationship and a good conversation. I am very interested in what our foreign policy leadership has done in concrete terms to influence Russia's actions in Aleppo and elsewhere in Syria, because it does not appear, does not belong outwards, loudly at least. We talk about ourselves as a model country for mediation, but very weak have been the exits. For example, the Foreign Minister has had time to comment on the student union feminism policy in the past month, but the bombing of Aleppo's civilians does not include plok. Foreign Minister, why is the government not more vocal when Russia is killing civilians, women and children in Syria and committing possible war crimes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u63	Mr President! Today the world is a very different place than it was a few years ago, unfortunately. And now that these crises are a fact, then the importance of foreign and security policy and defence policy will grow significantly, and it is important that progress is made at EU level on these issues as well. I understand that the decisions taken at the summit are in the right direction. But I'd really like to pay attention to what we ran into on that trip to the United States. In the last parliamentary term, when these export ombudsmen for some reason ended the government, it was a big mistake. At least I've found out. After all, Finland is highly dependent on exports, and in recent years we have had exports of between EUR 30 and 40 billion per year for what it should be. Now my question is: what is the point in this context of how to restore the expertise and know-how that 150 export agents had and which entrepreneurs thanked?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u64	Madam President! Finland will be led by the Arctic Council next year, and it has been unfortunate to note that Arctic policy is being somewhat paralysed and inaccessible. For example, there is the Barents Centre, which was not funded further, and the Arctic Information Centre, which has been running for a long time, is also in the mood because the political pressure is not sufficient. Finland's Arctic strategy was also updated recently, but it has been confusing to note that there is no financial investment at all. The Arctic region is now of great interest, and Finland needs to take the role of an initiator rather than a skier in this Arctic policy. Minister Soini, I hope that you will have some time and that you will be able to use your expertise on this matter. A big and impressive project would be needed during the Presidency of the Council, such as the Arctic. But I would like to ask you, however, how likely do you think it is for Finland to have a high-level meeting of this kind during the Presidency of the Arctic Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u65	Mr President! I would like to continue this Arctic cooperation. As has just been pointed out, it opens up a unique opportunity for Finland over the next two years, but also within the European Community, where the EU has outlined its own Arctic communication. How could Finland also play a leading role there? Mr President! It is certainly very important that Arctic cooperation should be promoted through concrete projects through cable connections, the Arctic railway, the Arctic information centre — how is it going? But there are also many substance sectors where we would have a chance of success. In the Arctic, I recently visited Canada, where, for example, there would be enormous opportunities for cooperation with us. How to ensure that export promotion and then substance from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u66	Värderade Talman! Mr Niinistö asked a good question, which should be repeated so that it can be answered with certainty, i.e. it is about family reunification. The political decisions behind the current lines are different, but the fact that we are not taking concrete steps to remove these practical obstacles is another one, and I do not think that the government should accept that. It is now good that electronic services have been made possible, and we should thank the government for that. However, it is unacceptable to stick to the decision that in Ankara, for example, the Iraqis, the Syrians, should be dealt with. Do you see this problem? What are you going to do to start the process in Tehran, for example? The second question is that raised by Mr Niikko: he needs to be informed that we are very different from pan-European principles. We must not report this, we must be ashamed of it, and we must take measures to ensure that our decision-making is in accordance with international laws and agreements. Minister Soini, are you concerned about the fate of these people, even though children who already speak Finnish are already integrated and now
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u67	Mr President! Mr Adlercreutz, there is now a little attitude in your assessment, because Finland wants to inform us what kind of asylum system it is here that there is not automatically asylum. However, we may still have a little slack in relation to the European average in our way of bringing these asylum seekers here and dealing with these issues. We trust that when people get the right information, how dangerous it is to go on an asylum mission To cross the Mediterranean, they won't leave. And then, after all, if you go through Europe all the way to Finland, can you rightly say that asylum is needed if you have not stayed in any other country along the way? However, these questions are so diverse that even in the sense that we decision-makers, who represent the Finnish people, must understand that we are, above all, promoting the interests of Finnish citizens. In that sense, I would like people not to make these life - threatening trips for nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u68	Needless to say, there is no point in making trips, but it is precisely Niikko who would like to inform us that our line is very different from the pan-European one. It is most likely contrary to international agreements, and this has already been reacted by the courts. This is no credit to us, and it must be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u69	Before the ministers now, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u70	Madam President! Finland influences many international forums, and one of these is UNESCO, whose World Heritage Committee, at its October meeting, decided by vote that the old city of Jerusalem and its walls will remain on the list of the endangered sites of UNESCO. This is justifiable in itself, but instead the statement of reasons for the decision forgets the Jewish and Christian involvement in the Temple Mountain region and highlights it only as a sacred place for Muslims in the region. Finland abstained from voting. I can't believe it. The decision is a shameful blow to the face of both Jews and Christians. I would like to hear from the government the reasons for Finland's voting behaviour at the World Heritage Committee meeting. What urgent steps does the Finnish Government intend to take to ensure that the undisputed connection between Jews and Christians to the Temple Mount of Jerusalem and the West Wall is acknowledged in the decisions of UNESCO in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u71	Next up, Minister Soini, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u72	Madam President! I will try to answer as many questions as possible within this time limit, and first of all: it is great that the debate is lively. On this question by Mrs Tuppurainen, I would like to start by saying that why the application procedure has been changed: it has been changed because it increases fairness and also allows new players to apply. It also increases transparency and justice. That is why it has been done and, of course, we will take note of the long-term view of the work carried out by the Commission on international commitments and obligations. We cannot have a narrow circle that revolves around itself from one decade to another. But they have the opportunity to apply in the same way as everyone else. This has, admittedly, changed. Then if we go to this Arctic, which is therefore one of the five priorities and a great opportunity for us: At the same time, we have both the Chairmanship of the Arctic Council and the Presidency of the Arctic Economic Council, and this gives us an excellent opportunity to strengthen Finland's international position. Our goal is constructive, solution-oriented cooperation with everyone. And the very first goal for the government and I have is for all countries to participate at the highest possible level. Last time I went to Anchorage in Alaska, there was an ambassador from Canada and there was an ambassador from Russia. My aim is that the foreign ministers should always be there, because that will increase credibility. I think it's very possible. Then you might want to catch a big fish even if you get one. Some meeting of the Heads of State in Finland would be a great thing, but creating such a waiting horizon would not be worth it if it did not come as a disappointment, but it would be worth working with your fingers in the clay, that it will also succeed. And, of course, effectiveness in our neighbourhood is important, and our Arctic Presidency's priorities include education, meteorology, different kinds of things that seek concreteness. We highlight Finland's cold expertise, Finnish solutions and show in practice that our society operates even under difficult conditions. Then with regard to these migration issues and others: we think it is important that people in their own language are told what the spirit of the game is here, what the game is here, and how this apparat works, because what else can we do to get these things through? I find it extremely damaging for human smugglers and traffickers, these people who exploit other people, to provide false information. Poor people put all their belongings when they think it's the way to get here, and then when they can't, it's not good. I understand this issue of family reunification, and the main problem at the moment is not necessarily that you have to pick it up in Turkey, but that the Syrians are not getting visas to Turkey. That's the thing. Then Mr. Essayah and Mr. Terho...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u79	Mr President! Firstly, Mr Niinistö and several others asked about the important issue of the contribution of these poorest, so-called LDC countries to our development aid. What is essential here is that, within development aid, the share of the poorest, the LDC countries, has increased already this year and will increase next year. Thus, in Finland's own development aid, Finland emphasises these poorest countries, just as this was called for, in relation to GDP. When we have the whole pot of development aid reduced, the share of LDCs in GDP is also lower this year than last year, but in comparison to next year LDC aid will also increase slightly in comparison to this year. But it is therefore essential to note that we have by no means shifted the focus away from the LDC countries, but vice versa. Then again, if, for example, a certain percentage were to be added even higher, that how much of our development aid is being given to the LDC countries in particular, then, unfortunately, at the same time, we can say good-bye to much of our assistance in these countries of origin of the current refugee crisis in the Middle East, North Africa, which, as a rule, do not qualify for the LDC country definition on the basis of their standard of living. So this is a difficult puzzle in itself, but I agree that it is in the poorest countries that we are most needed. The question of monitoring investment-based instruments was asked, in particular Mr Sarkkinen. As far as Finnfund is concerned, we have constantly tightened and refined Finnfund's reporting requirements in previous years, even now in my time, so that each investment needs to be explained by the counterparties, the amounts, and what is the social responsibility situation. I'm sure there's still work to be done. Fund-based investments are always reviewed separately, and not one of them has been made this year, but they have always been carried out directly, making transparency easier. With regard to interest rate support for the public sector under the Interest Support Scheme, the system to be published on Monday contains very clear priorities on how both human rights impacts and reporting on the tax trail should be achieved in these cases. Of Finland’s strengths, Elovaara and some others asked. At my request, each bilateral country programme has now created a so-called Team Finland section, which looks at how its country's priorities, whether they are water supply, education or even strengthening the tax administration, which can be used in particular by Finnish companies and Finnish organisations, and is also measured as part of each country's programme. Of course, we cannot say that we have to buy technology from a Finnish water treatment plant if there is another more effective way, but we can and must insist that when we finance a project, the Finnish suppliers, whether they are organisations, Team Rocka or a Finnish solar panel supplier, are at least on the same line as the competitors. In Kenya, for example, when I visited Kenya with the director of the Water Trust Fund, I had a very clear discussion that, when we have financed it with Sweden and we will finance it in the future, it cannot be that all water treatment plants are Danish technology if we have at least as good a supply, and the answer was that things are changing, but I am sure they will have to be followed in a year's time. This brings us to this Team Finland activity, which was asked, among other things, by Mrs Essayah and many others. I myself have done about 50 export promotion days this autumn, and I think that we are also doing a very good job of working with Finpro in the delegations as a whole, and that lilies are being created, and today I had a feedback debate with the companies on the trip to Egypt, and there were about a dozen lilies that were leading to or near the store. I myself would like to see the business fairs held in every meeting — this week I was in Germany for three days — very concretely, and this is the way in which we must dare to act, not only by entrepreneurs but also by our representatives of the state administration. We may still have such a challenge that between the ambassadors of Finpro and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there will be squeezing over the network in the countries of destination, which is the responsibility of helping the final export of the lilies at any time, and in this respect, in good cooperation with Minister Rehn, a study has been launched that there is clearly one person in every region responsible for Team Finland's activities with all the resources of Finland in the region, and that of course requires that, if it is an ambassador, then he will receive matrix guidance from Tekes and Finpro in these matters, and that is also an issue that I hope will be a means of changing the UM. In particular, towards Denmark — and I do not really envy the Swedish system here — it is quite clear that they have been building their external representation for a hundred years, much more by the weight of export promotion. Their ambassadors also have clear incentives to do so personally, and they have the tradition that ambassadors experience — constantly with Finnish ambassadors when they talk, so they hear that a Danish colleague feels — that the promotion of exports is the number one meter in a different way. I personally believe that we should take steps in this direction, that it is one of the key elements of the work of the Foreign Service today, and I hope that we will be able to take this much further in the coming years than is currently the case here. Then I will say that most of the funding is the first bottleneck today, especially in the SME sector, to which Essayah specifically referred, and that this government has strongly increased Finnvera's export guarantee powers — without such an operation we would not have saved the Turku shipyard, without such an activity thousands of Finnish companies would not have been able to obtain those export transactions, which fortunately has now been obtained a little more than in the course of this year. This will continue to be such a bottleneck, which will also be combined with Finnfund's projects,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u80	Then it is possible to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u81	Mr President! In foreign policy, money creates a basic condition, but of course the content is essentially what is being sought. Everything that has been heard about the important European Council meeting that is now in session is very positive for us. The Syrian part includes a Finnish message and a common EU message, and they are united. Clearly, the EU has developed a coherent strategy for Syria. It has been very important that Finland's goal for years to make EU defence cooperation more concrete, deeper and deeper is on the way. It has been prepared for a long time; at least the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been informed about it this year. It was clear in advance that this December meeting will focus on defence issues. Syria has taken up time in the first place, but conclusions have been prepared, and it seems that progress is now being made. Even the structural cooperation may now make progress with its Article Finland was involved in the negotiations in the previous decade, and now perhaps for the first time it will be applied. Finland must have an open, positive position that we are
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u82	Mr President! I will continue this reflection by Mr Vanhanen, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Indeed, if this preliminary information is even more accurate, this progress in defence cooperation will be a major change in the development of the European Union and, of course, will also affect our foreign and security policy position. Then one of the questions that comes before us is the one that Mr Vanhanen mentioned: will we go along with this structural cooperation, in other words closer defence cooperation between willing countries within the framework of the EU? That is what it means: not everyone comes along, and those who leave agree among themselves what is to be done. I personally welcome this myself, but it is very important that such solutions are made so that they have the support and approval of the parliament and the representatives of the people of Finland and the Finnish people must know what is being done here. That is why I think that it is necessary, as well as the information provided by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the large committee, for the whole of Parliament to have a report on what is being done, where it is going and where it is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u83	Mr President! I agree with Mr Heinäluoma. Next week, at the joint meeting of the large committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we will receive a joint information from the Prime Minister on this meeting, but I am sure that this European Council will also be very sensitive to the final debate on the UTP report next Wednesday, here in Parliament, that is what the important issue is about. In time, when the articles of structural cooperation were negotiated in the Treaty, the underlying ideas varied. On the other hand, it may have been a question of some Member States starting to create certain joint operational capacities, some of them thinking that it might be a question of assembling certain groups, which, of course, is such a cooperation that it cannot be thought that all 28 are involved, but that the group is necessarily smaller. But as such, in the model of structural cooperation, our basic condition was that it should be open to all those who meet the criteria for structural cooperation, i.e. it should have the right to participate, and I believe that Finland will have no problems in this respect. But it is also important to note that the possible creation and use of the defence fund is also important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u84	Mr President! These cuts in development aid are very large. After all, the cuts already made to this year were enormous, particularly from organisations. When the organizations had to push their projects down — which was a big concern — on a really fast schedule, have you been monitoring how it happened? Indeed, in many of the good projects that started, work was wasted because they had to be cut down at once. It would be useful to learn more about this in order to avoid such errors in the future. As such, the UM has carried out an evaluation and stated that the organisations are very effective in development cooperation, and it is therefore still surprising that no additional money will be given to them. The activities of the organisations are also much more transparent than Finnfund’s activities have been, to which this development cooperation money has now been allocated more and the focus has been shifted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u85	Mr President! I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether there has been any preparation or debate in the EU about plans for an EU crisis management operation in Syria when the situation allows. When planning the mission, it always takes time for it to be properly integrated between all the different actors. Indeed, with civilian crisis management, we can influence the root causes of many problems driving people out of their country of origin. It can contribute with sustainable results to support the capacity, rule of law and good governance of the target countries. However, this alone does not remove the problems, but also requires military crisis management, for example, to guarantee stability for the various actors there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u86	Madam President! The government must be commended for the fact that the Finnish people's confidence in the management of foreign policy has been strengthened by the work carried out under the leadership of the President and Foreign Minister of the Republic. Diplomacy, dialogue and mediation are needed, where we have done well. We must take responsibility for crises, and we have been a great peace-keeping power for 60 years. 45,000 women and men have been involved in various peacekeeping and crisis management operations, and more than ten have died and quite a few have been injured. I would also like to thank you for the fact that now the Kriha veteran programme has finally been brought to the finish and that the Military Injury Act is not ready for Parliament's finalisation. This is a big deal for these women and men, whom Finland has sent over 60 years for various tasks to bring peace and stability to the world, and this work continues. Thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u87	Mr President! During the previous round, representatives of Kulmuni and Ojala-Niemela raised the issue of the Arctic region, which was addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr Soini also mentioned one of the priorities of your ministry next year. Of course, this Presidency of the Arctic Council will provide us with a great deal of opportunities, both for the mediation mentioned by Mr Kanerva and for the opening of these trade routes, as well as for its so-called big fish gear, so that the Heads of State could perhaps face us here in Finland and Finland could act as a hub-opener in this respect. I would like to ask you, Mr Soini, about these key objectives in relation to the Presidency of the Arctic Council and also in relation to these priorities, which you yourself have set.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u88	Madam President! This EU summit is a very important issue, and yes, I see in exactly the same way as Mr Heinäluoma in his important speech that Parliament as a whole should have an account of the defence lines of this meeting. There is obviously a major change of course taking place there, and it is therefore very important that Parliament as a whole should be specifically informed about this. But, Mr President, I would like to continue this debate on development cooperation as much as it seems, Mr Terho or Mr Soini, that you did not want to talk about this development policy for the Finns, but before the elections you had a very clear line: you said that you wanted the right to deduct tax on contributions to development cooperation. So this is the kind of proposal you had before the elections, and now, of course, I would like to ask you how it is with the motion. Is this what the government is going to do? We are well aware of your presentation. Even in our own protest, we make a statement in which Parliament requires the government to explain why this proposal has not progressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u89	Mr President! We have, of course, committed ourselves to a policy under the Government Programme, the government parties of which are in good harmony, with great wisdom and in an extremely balanced way agreed on their own economic and political bases in Smolna a year and a half ago. As far as this model is concerned, as a party, of course, we still have it in force and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u92	Madam President! A debate has begun here on this deepening of EU defence cooperation. That is a very important issue. When the Prime Minister Sipilä was in the Committee on Foreign Affairs last time, we had a rather wide-ranging debate on this, because he was going to Brussels at the time to discuss this more. Now that he returns to Finland and next week this foreign policy debate will take place, this is a very important theme in that debate. And the starting point is what the Committee on Foreign Affairs has said many times that Finland welcomes the deepening of the EU's foreign policy and defence policy, that is the basic premise. But next week it will be good to talk about this in more detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u93	Mr President! I'm going back to the Arctic. I myself signed the Ottawa Declaration on behalf of the Finnish Government in 96 and at the founding meeting of the Arctic Council, and now that I have returned to those documents, I noticed that apart from cooperation and coordination, it places particular emphasis on the rights of indigenous peoples, the environment, sustainable development. Looking at the world, looking east, towards Russia, or looking west after the presidential election in the United States, it seems that these issues — the rights of indigenous peoples, sustainable development, the environment — are rather weak in the Arctic policy of these countries, the focus is sometimes on the exploitation of natural resources and so on. There are many good Arctic projects, such as the development of telecommunications connections, of course Arctic shipping, the fight against oil, all of these that we can be very fully involved in. I would have asked the Minister how you might see these contradictions. In the work of the Arctic Council in view of this future Finnish Presidency?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u94	Madam President! I'd talk about Syria. In recent weeks we have witnessed terrible events in Syria. Syrian dictator al-Assad ruthlessly kills his own citizens in a bloody civil war where the opposition is no different. Assad's partner in these crimes has been Russia. You can try to analyse the background influences of Russia, but you should not understand what Russia is doing in the sense that it should be accepted at all. The EU has not been listened to in order to achieve peace, but when it comes to rebuilding billions, then it must also be necessary for Europe. My question is: how does the EU intend to deal with such a project that should not be enthusiastically involved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u95	Madam President! I am aware of situations in a crisis country where it is suspected that local workers and their families in close cooperation with Finns have been subjected to pressure and even persecution from terrorist extremists at the end of the project. I would ask you, Minister Soini, if you could consider a humanitarian visa or another separate solution to this type of situation, in order to continue to ensure that Finns, such as development cooperation workers or crisis management workers, receive help and support from the locals so that they dare to come and help. Many Western countries have given humanitarian visas or refugee status, for example, to former interpreters who have served the peacekeeping or crisis management forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u96	Madam President! The fact that the security policy situation in Europe and outside Europe has changed is a fact, and it certainly includes the need to outline a common security policy, even defence. But in this context, when quite a number of people have said that Europe is fragmented — Brexit, we have failed to deal with crises in the neighbourhood, internal unity is in danger — there is now a strong call for this common security and defence policy to be one that will weld the peoples together. I am a little sad that, when Europe has a great past and hopefully also a great future, then the defence, the preparation for war, would be the only common factor that would build European unity in the future. Let us hope that other values will also be able to hold on and carry them forward. In some ways it saddens the starting point of seeking that unity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u97	Mr President! First of all, I would also like to thank the government parties for our understanding of the importance of what has been discussed yesterday in Brussels and what it can lead to at best. However, I would like to ask Minister Soin, in fact, to jump into the situation and the future of the United Nations, the UN. Sweden, as one of the Nordic countries, will begin in the Security Council, even as a chairman, and Nordic thinking, the Nordic model will certainly emerge in terms of equality, the welfare state and other elements. At the same time, the tension in the five United States, Russia, France, China and Great Britain is evident. How do you, Minister Soini, intend to contribute to the success of Finland and Sweden together with regard to common objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u98	Madam President! Over the years, Finland has been more involved in peace-keeping, and this is very good. However, we cannot always be in every part of the world, but we must consider how our limited resources will be allocated. The focus of operations in recent years has clarified Finland’s participation in peacekeeping activities. In this economic situation in particular, it is important that all tools related to crisis management and mediation are better coordinated. This is also in line with the comprehensive crisis management strategy. I would like to ask the ministers: how does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to develop its cooperation and coordination with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u99	Before the ministers, Mr. Emma Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u100	Mr President! In one speech earlier, these Finnish development cooperation cuts were called embarrassing. Personally, I would feel that it is not a matter of being awkward, but of being shameful. We are living in the midst of an historic humanitarian crisis — an historic humanitarian crisis — and Finland has responded by cutting almost half of our development funds, cutting our refugee quota and making it more difficult for those who have fled the war to safety. When we talk about these development cooperation cuts here, there are exhilarations from time to time, but I personally believe that the Finnish Government understands that this is absolutely no credit to us. The fact that we have fallen from the reference group of the progressive Nordic countries does us no credit. That is why I would like to ask the ministers: do we, however, have the objective of drawing up a concrete plan and a timetable for the way in which development funds are to be allocated?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u101	Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u102	Madam President! I'm trying to narrow it down. Representatives Ruoho and Haavisto and others asked about crisis management. This is extremely important as part of international responsibility and the building of common security. We stress the importance of comprehensiveness with both military and civilian crisis management. I've arranged a peace-making breakfast with Turkey in New York. We believe that there should be a dialogue with Turkey, although at the same time we condemn human rights violations and censorship. According to estimates next year, 510 Finns participate in military and civilian crisis management tasks. The geographical priorities are Lebanon, Iraq, Afghanistan, Kosovo, Georgia and Ukraine, and quite rightly, as Mr Pelkonen said, this has been summed up and made more effective. The biggest operations are UNIFIL in Lebanon, the training operation in Iraq and the Resolute Support operation in Afghanistan, where I visited the site. Of course, as in all the new operations in previous years, this will require an additional budget. Fifteen million are proposed for civilian personnel to participate in crisis management, and 0.5 million are allocated to mediation, and these are often dealt with by EU countries. Then on this Arctic issue: It's important. We have priorities there: meteorology, the environment, sustainable development, education, precisely that indigenous peoples also receive training, access to education, have transport connections, a north-east cable, when there is this so-called black rain that melts glaciers, it is the target. Then there are icebreakers — we can tell you that in Finland all ports are kept open. The Arctic region must not be militarised; it is also a major security issue. But then this very important question, about the internal conflicts: There is also this aspect that, when Trudeau came to power in Canada, Canada is, in a way, reaching out more. Now Admiral Papp, an excellent American ambassador, has resigned, perhaps because of this new regime. Then there's the humanitarian visa. I'll think about it. In practice, when I went to Afghanistan, I heard that Afghans working at the Finnish Embassy are afraid, for security reasons, to tell their families where they work. I'm aware of this. And then, Congressman Skinner, to you, when the Nordic co-operation...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u103	Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u104	First of all, Mr Mikkonen asked about the assistance of the organisations, which had previously been touched. They asked how it was followed. Now, as mentioned here, the evaluation is going on and the first part of it has been published, the next two parts will be completed by the summer, and it will give a picture of how organisations are currently able to do their work. In fact, yesterday we had a meeting with these 22 programme support organisations, which also went through the situation and has now secured stable funding for next year, and then four-year funding periods for the following years, when these large organisations would have more stable conditions today and, in fact, never before, and we will have easier to assess their results in a more long-term way. Indeed, the evaluation of the first part is based on the fact that the organisations assessed in the first part are working effectively. Of course, evaluation does not say that it would be worth transferring money from humanitarian aid to organisations, or it does not say that, for example, country-specific development cooperation or jobs created through Finnfund are somehow less effective. In a way like these conclusions, what here may have been guided by the representatives to draw, I cannot be on this basis doing in itself. Then, of course, one thing must be made very clear, since here too a few speeches have created alternatives, that the government is now investing in Finnfund and investment-based financing and then reducing the number of organisations that are not alternative. Investment funding is possible because it is not a spending limits cost, whereas organizational grants as a gift grant are a spending limits cost. Even if we put an end to Finnfund, we would not get more money in the spending limits for organisations so that there is no point in worrying about this. This is where Mr Kari referred to the cuts in development aid, not quite half of it has been taken away. As far as the matter is concerned, I would say that, of course, as has been said here and as the government's programme goes, the direction must be upward. Next year we will make a slight increase in the share of development aid in GDP and also in euros. We all know that when we cut out schools, hospitals, all over the place, we can't go back 300 million at a time. I would say that, based on six months of experience, at least the same number of children or women living in the famine in Africa in the Kibera slum where I went will help us to choose more precisely what we are doing with about EUR 800 million, which is still a very large amount of money spent by Finnish taxpayers every year. When we are able to do that work in a long-term, more result-oriented way, by measuring better, using the best international partners, we will clearly achieve more than we have achieved so far. That's what I believe. Mr Uotila asked about the future of the EU. As Minister for Trade, I believe strongly that back to the basics — the deepening of the internal market, particularly through digitalisation. We had the networking of Finnish music with the German music industry in Berlin on Monday, and there are many problems on the copyright side, although, fortunately, Finnish music exports have increased tenfold in the last ten years. I also spoke to the German Minister for Economic Affairs, Gabriel, on Monday, and he welcomed the fact that they see, along with all rhetoric, that we need to move forward with a free trade agreement with Japan, for example, in the course of next year, to move forward with tariff reductions for environmentally friendly products, and we need to drive them strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u105	Let us go on with the debate, this debate has been set aside until 12.30 p.m. in its entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u106	Mr President! It is great that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken into account the importance of Finnish peacekeeping. I believe that Finland is still a great country for peace-keeping and, in particular, a great country for peace-keeping, and I hope that it will also be possible to achieve significant actions on that side in the course of next year. There has been a lot of discussion here in this Chamber about Syria and its situation. The situation is extremely challenging and sad. From this point of view, there has been a lot of assessment of the potential success of the EU there and of whether the UN has succeeded in the best possible way. I would like to ask the Minister's view: how have the Arab states contributed to this situation in Syria?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u108	Mr President! It is a cold choice of values for the government to cut aid for the poorest and the weakest. The government is massively cutting development cooperation in a situation where the global refugee crisis requires us to help more people at the origins of the crises. There is an additional EUR 100 million in the green alternative budget for development cooperation. Mr Haavisto pointed out earlier that last season emissions auction revenues were directed towards development cooperation and climate finance, and I agree with his recommendation that I call on the government to introduce this mechanism or to come up with something similar. But I also have concerns about the adequacy of climate finance, because these emissions trading revenues have no longer been allocated to climate finance. I hope the Minister will explain how Finland has managed climate finance for poor countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u109	Madam President! Here we have just heard from the Minister that the poorest countries in our development cooperation have by no means been put aside or forgotten. I would now like to remind you that over 60% of Finnfund's projects are targeted at the poorest countries, including the fragile countries, and that is the reverse of the coin, where, of course, a terrible cry begins when difficulties arise. I think that an excellent good example is this hydroelectric project in Honduras, the final cause and the result of which no one really knows, there were a lot of problems. But this is what happens when we have to, and Finnfund will, of course, have to act under very difficult circumstances. If we were to choose countries and if Finnfund were to choose countries where democracy works, human rights play and so on, it could only work in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u110	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen has already mentioned Denmark and Sweden as an example of how they have already made more advanced use of private sector funding in development cooperation. I recently met more than a dozen African foreign ministers with Nordic ministers. At the time, the very clear message from these African ministers was that whether they were poorer or a little more prosperous African countries, 'we hope with you that there will be cooperation involving the private sector, that you will develop our infrastructure and that you will create jobs for people'. It will prevent the possibility of the next great migration in this world from creating hope for people in Africa. It is now very important that Finland has created instruments, that Finland has invested in this aspect and is involved with other Nordic countries in helping people and in implementing this desire of hope that people have there. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you see that this work has started? The capital has been increased to Finnfund. The BEAM project, which is now due to be launched next week, has been actually asked, among other things, in Vietnam. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u111	Värderade Talman! I repeat my previous question to Minister Soin: are you concerned that the wrong asylum decisions are being taken in Finland with regard to Iraqis? Is it perhaps the case that Europeans in general are too lax, or is it just for some reason that there are quite different asylum seekers coming to Finland? Iraq than the rest of Europe? And now for this climate finance. It is generally considered that climate finance should be a separate development fund. This is not the case in Finland. There is also a recommendation that climate adjustment funding should be about half of the total funding. What's the deal with us? Can we achieve this, and how, Minister Mykkänen, do you see the use of Finnfund as an instrument: does it support the need for climate adjustment funding, or is it of a nature that is more oriented towards other types of investment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u112	Madam President! One important objective of Finland's foreign policy is the stability and economic cooperation of neighbouring regions in our neighbourhood. Finland has a unique opportunity to do good in our neighbourhood President of the Arctic Council from the beginning of next year for three years. I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: Finland has always been an important trading partner for Russia. Understanding this current situation of sanctions policy, what is your perspective on the possibilities of trade between Finland and Russia over the coming years, when this Arctic cooperation and its Presidency of the Council will open up for us a hugely great forum for negotiating and discussing specifically with our eastern neighbours and with our other neighbours?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u113	Mr President! We have talked a lot about immigration and the rights of foreigners. I'd actually be a minister. Mr Soin asked what the situation is for helping a Finnish person abroad in embassies. I myself have received communications from Korea, among other things. A young woman in Finland was there, was beaten completely sober, was not helped by the embassy, even by emergency services for interpretation. He was left alone, and luckily, his parents helped. What's the situation? Another situation is that the Chinese mother is with her adopted children in China. He has a Finnish, financially sound man in Finland. They cannot have their children in Finland; they have not fully complied with international adoption advice, but the situation is unreasonable. He has a child in Finland. In these situations, how does the embassy help Finns abroad, and not always just foreigners?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u114	Mr President! I will return to Finland's relations with my neighbour and communication. I think it is important that the right message is always sent from Finland to the world, but in connection with these unpleasant events in Finland, a wrong message has been deliberately transmitted through social media about our activities, and this may disturb the image of Finland, even harming Finland's relationship with another country. I ask you: what can we do here in Finland for this kind of unpleasant activity, which then affects our external relations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u115	Madam President! This is where Mr Vanhanen remembered 25 years ago and said the President The words of Koivisto at the time, when Koivisto said that a country that is in debt and whose current account is in deficit cannot give money abroad free of charge. That was a pretty tough blow for the minister back then, but we got away with it. Mr President! Of course, the level of development cooperation appropriations is important, but much more important is how these funds are spent. 881 million is a lot of money. I am very pleased that Mr Mykkänen has told us about this development cooperation in the form of loans and investment, its diverse impact and its possibilities to use it in a very diverse way. I am therefore a little surprised that there is perhaps opposition from the RKP and the Left Alliance to this action. I do not understand that, and of course it would be good to hear the arguments. Then...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u117	Mr President! There is a need for a proper increase in development cooperation appropriations and, in our protest, we are proposing an additional 235 million for development cooperation appropriations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u120	Mr President! The situation in international politics has become very complex in Europe over the last few years. There is a crisis in Ukraine, there is a war in Syria, and the eyes are on the international community and how the United Nations and the European Union have been able to act in these crises. For Finns and Finland, the most important reference framework is certainly always the Nordic countries. We are very similar countries, our history, our customs, our human perceptions, democracy and human rights are all similar, and there is still a huge amount of work to be done in Nordic cooperation. Sweden will be a member of the UN Security Council next year, and much has also been said about how the UN should now be reformed, that it will be better able to respond to the crises of this time. How does Finland, together with Sweden, react to how the UN could move forward with these reforms, that it would be a more functional organisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u121	Mr Adlercreutz, Mr Ruoho, Mr Räsänen, Mr Haavisto, and then the ministers' speeches to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u122	Värderade Talman! For Mr Kankaanieme: I do not know whether Mr Kankaanniemi was perhaps a bit in defence when he interpreted the question as criticism. Of course, there should be a lot of financial instruments, and the question was, after all, how this instrument applies precisely to this implementation of climate adjustment funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u123	Mr President! First of all, I would say briefly to Mr Adlercreutz that there will be no false asylum seekers, they just do not have asylum grounds, which is because people are trying to use the asylum route, even though they have other causes, poverty and things like this, which drives them to come. Mr Uotila's speech came to mind, that these wounded would be included, that I would see it as an important thing, but I would like to remind you of something I have seen myself: children from whom their parents have broken bones, that they would look more pathetic. In fact, they are referred to as spider children because they are otherwise healthy and they may move quickly. I wish this could never happen. — I had another question, but I have no more time to talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u124	Mr President! I thank Minister Soini for his positive response to the possibility of considering these humanitarian visas in specific cases. All in all, however, I consider it ill-considered to choose that the cuts in development cooperation have been directed specifically at non-governmental organisations, because it has been said that it is their development cooperation that is effective and effective and that is targeted at the grassroots level where, for example, support is directed directly to the public through education and health services, including, for example, established Finnish broadcasting organisations. It is very regrettable that they have had to push their projects and activities down in many respects because of these cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u125	Mr President! Mr Soini, you spoke in your speech about maintaining the network of embassies and that during this term of government the embassies will no longer be abolished, but the direction will now be different. I have to thank you for this. This is an important issue and one that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has often addressed here. I would have asked you for a view on where there are shortcomings, where there are gaps. We have EU Member States which do not currently have a Finnish delegation, and I also think from the point of view of exports: when it is very often said that the market is outside Europe in the future, the market outside our traditional partners, the embassies, the embassies are quite important in reaching these customers. Does the government have any ideas on how to increase this activity? Maybe I'll add an old idea about these kind of laptop messengers. I am not talking about the travelling ambassadors at the time, but rather about the more modestly resourced ambassadors who sit on the ground, participate in the EU coordination and represent Finland, although there is no such thing as a large delegation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u126	And then the ministers' speeches are closed. Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u127	Madam President! I'm trying to answer a few questions. I will start with Mr Uotila: the Finnish refugee quota is 750, and it is precisely for the reception of Syrian refugees this season. Then to Mrs Merelle: I do not know that detail, but I will find out. One of the key tasks of Finnish embassy and consular activities is to help Finns in distress abroad. So I guess we can go back to this. Then there is the amount of development aid. When we talk about money and not just some abstract percentages, the Greens and the RKP were in the government from 2007 to 2011. In 2009, 915 million was spent on development aid, now 881 million — that the truth will not be forgotten. Then, Mr Haavisto, this is a very important matter. For example, it was quite a painful moment when the Finnish Embassy was abolished in Slovakia, which is now the EU President, during the previous government. In particular, we should strengthen our embassies network in countries like the Philippines, for example, which was also abolished during the previous government. This government is now raising Bogotá, where a very important solution has been reached: 50 years of war have been brought to an end. This is a good investment in Finnish work, enterprise and so on. There were many other good questions here about hybrid influence and other things, but this delivery of development aid: My view is — and I also believe I know something about the views of the citizens — that people are not opposed to development aid, they want it to get there. What is strongly opposed is the corruption, the rotten system that dominates many countries. Was it Mr Paloniemi who spoke well of the Honduran Water Project? Finns do not want to pour millions of dollars into projects that are not going to work. And then organisations: I agree with Mr Räsänen that the mission organisations will be able to obtain effective assistance. Although no one should be talking about their own affairs now, I trust much more in the Holy Roman Catholic Church than in some state that development aid will come through, and may go within the framework of such a philosophy that I can accept.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u128	Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u129	Mr President! First of all, Mr Karimäki referred to the level of climate finance. I would like to reiterate that, through investment-based funding, we have an increase in climate finance in particular, and it is therefore also a method used by many other countries that it is precisely investment-based risk-sharing funding that is directed towards it. Of course, with regard to emissions trading revenues, we could do as many other countries, such as Germany, do, for example, that emissions trading income is earmarked for investment aid for renewable energy, but of course it would not change in practice anything other than accounting, while at the moment we, from the TEM budget, are paying investment subsidies, which are paid more than auction revenues, so that I would not pay so much attention to this in itself. Indeed, as Mr Soini referred to here, when we talk about the overall level of development aid, to which Mr Karimäki also referred, we are now at that level in 2006-2007, both for NGOs and for the whole of development aid. Is that a little bit? That is less than where we were a few years ago, but ten years ago there had been a rather rapid increase in development aid. It was a relatively bearable situation. We are now at a level that is not worth exaggerating the change that has taken place since then. Mr Adlercreutz also referred to this climate finance as regards adaptation measures. Of course, such projects are also funded, which is precisely aimed at strengthening the ability of island regions, sub-regions, for example, to survive when salty water rises and to survive with salty wells, including through Finnfund. But, yes, I would say that the main focus — and I think quite rightly the main emphasis — on the use of Finnish taxpayers and Finnish investment money is to reduce climate emissions, so that we actually make EUR 1 by making a wind farm in Turkana, which is now opening up in March to produce almost a fifth more electricity to Kenya's electricity grid from all Kenya's current production, we will achieve much more than, for example, domestic production subsidies, which are now being viewed more closely in the future. Unfortunately, although Mr Adlercreutz said otherwise, the amendment proposed on behalf of Mrs Wallin is indeed intended to cut the EUR 130 million cut in financial investments and to remove the EUR 10 million increase in Finnfund's capital which the government is proposing for next year. Mr Toivakka referred to this investment-based financing, how to involve SMEs in particular, and indeed with this capital increase of EUR 130 million this year, investments of at least EUR 0.5 billion will start, each with a Finnish solution provider on this side of the board. As such, we are still hungry on the way this autumn, so that we are now negotiating on the following, i.e. the remaining EUR 420 million in investment funding, for example through the World Bank IFC, which is their investment wing, and then we are trying to ensure that it is not EUR 1.5 billion, which would be the same calculated level, but, for example, EUR 3 billion, when we get the World Bank's money in it and there will always be a Finnish company involved when it is able to provide a solution. These Finnfund projects often involve SMEs, and even more will be sought for in the future, and it is precisely this mechanism of interest rate support that is also relevant in very small shops on the SME scale. Paloniemi drew attention to the risk level of the LDC countries, the poorest countries, what it is. It is precisely so that if zero tolerance were to be taken to the point of not being able to take anything where there might be a risk, then Sweden would be the best target for development aid. In this respect, we must realise that some of the challenges will always be and must be able to be tackled as transparently as possible in a preventive way, so that we have organisations there to help, for example. This is important work that organisations do in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u130	The general discussion on this section will be suspended at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u131	The general debate on Section 24 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was suspended earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u132	Mr President! We are currently living in the midst of the worst humanitarian crisis in history. I personally believe that history will remember us from the way we act as a country in this crisis. However, Finland has responded to this situation by breaking up its development cooperation, undermining human rights, cutting its refugee quota and making it more difficult for those who have fled the war to have a family with them. The huge cuts in development cooperation hit the lives of millions of the poorest people. They also undermine Finland’s international reputation as the bearer of global responsibility. The Government's proposal states that Finland acts responsibly as part of the international community. That is not true. Finland’s gross national income share of development cooperation appropriations is estimated to remain at 0.4 per cent throughout the Government term. This is a far cry from our international commitment of 0.7%, and it must be borne in mind that our neighbours, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, have already achieved this objective. Finland will fall from the progressive Nordic reference group. Mr President! This year, 43%, or EUR 49 million, of development cooperation carried out by non-governmental organisations was cut this year. Organisations have had to suspend several hundred projects, leaving more than one million people in developing countries without assistance. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs itself has commissioned an external evaluation which clearly shows that the development cooperation of NGOs is effective and cost-effective. It is the best development cooperation that is being done. According to the conclusions of this external evaluation, the development funding cuts of organisations were a mistake and additional funding is recommended for the programme support of organisations. However, this is not the way the government works. Mr President! Internationally, it has been agreed that developed countries will increase their climate funding to a level of USD 100 billion per year by 2020. Finland is committed to providing additional funding for climate action in poor countries, but Finland still covers this funding from the already cut development budget. The previous government directed the auction revenues of allowances as part of Finland’s development and climate funding, and Finland received extensive international praise for this. Now the Government is directing emissions trading revenues back to energy-intensive industries as subsidies. Government subsidies have received exceptionally harsh criticism from economic researchers. These subsidies do not increase employment, they do not support the Finnish economy, but they reduce incentives for companies to reduce emissions. So instead of fighting climate change, this money is being used to accelerate climate change. While Finland is committed to ambitious climate action less than a year ago in Paris, Finland's international climate funding is being cut as part of the development budget and money is being channelled to the polluting industry. This is irresponsible and undermines Finland's international credibility. Mr President! This budget is no credit to Finland in this time. There is now a great need for responsibility and humanity in the world. It would be great if Finland were to be such a country in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u133	Mr President! Finland will be the Arctic Council Presidency next spring, after the United States in May. The tradition has been that quite a few of the things that the previous presidency has promoted will also remain on the agenda of the next presidency. Of course, the programme has not yet been published, and we do not know exactly what will be there, but, for example, in today's debate on the budget, we also heard the themes that Finland will raise in relation to education, meteorology and, of course, the big picture of the northern Arctic regions that they are extremely fragile in terms of climate and environment. Finland is home to the only indigenous people of the European Union, and indigenous issues are always present there. But it is very important that Arctic issues also take account of the fact that it is a living environment for people, and insofar as it is desirable that, when we talk about Arctic policy, social policy issues, education issues, including industrial policy issues, should also be raised more strongly. Finland, as a civilized country of high technological competence, can, for example, draw quite a lot from that work on combating climate change to the northern regions, and this also involves, for example, the dramatic increase in tourism potential in the Arctic regions. The European Union has also issued its own Arctic communication, and Finland would have a place for a thousand dollars to play a stronger role in the European Union's Arctic policy. Norway is very active in these matters, but of course it is not an EU country, so we would have an opportunity there. It is quite clear that there will certainly be many high-level summits in Finland next year — foreign ministers’ meetings, possibly the EU High Representative is coming to Finland on Arctic matters, hopefully also a meeting of Heads of State or Government will be held in Finland — and there will in fact not be too many institutions such as the Arctic Council, where the Nordic countries and the United States, Russia and Canada are at the same table, so hopefully Finland will also be able to play a bigger role in making the situation in international politics more relaxed. For a very long time there has also been talk of an Arctic Information Centre on Arctic issues, and the European Parliament has already allocated the appropriations to this on a number of occasions, but unfortunately it has remained, but it has been somewhat careless at national level. A very fine achievement was that this autumn the EU became aware that the EU cybersecurity centre would now be in the process of putting in Finland, but this Arctic information centre will allow itself to wait, even though our scientific community is doing a very high level of research within this framework. I wish it would be reflected in our policies as well. Mr President! It is very good that next year, for example, a number of concrete improvements will be made in the network of representations to the effect that it will no longer be tightened up; instead, consulates will be raised to embassies, as is the case in Bogotá, Colombia and Myanmar. Furthermore, with regard to this export promotion, I would like to say that it is very important that the government has now employed these export promotion professionals in a few places. It was, of course, sad that this activity was abandoned in the middle of the day. But if you look again at the northern dimension and the knowledge we could offer in it, for example, in a country like Canada, in a sparsely populated area, fossil fuels are still being used very massively. As a renewable energy expert, Finland could provide not only energy supply and business opportunities in cold northern conditions for domestic companies but also sell them to the world. Furthermore, Mr President, at this end I would like to stress that when Finland becomes President-in-Office of the Nordic Council next year and we also have the 100th anniversary of our independence, it would be very important for Nordic cooperation to be highlighted. However, it is the closest reference framework to which we operate internationally. The Nordic countries are very similar, and in such a time of turbulence, when the European Union also struggles with the direction we are going, the Nordic countries may show the flag of liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u134	Mr President! A few ideas from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administrative sector, in particular, relating to Finnish embassies abroad. Again, in this budget, the expenditure of delegations is reduced by about 3%, which is about 7 million in cash. It is sad to see how Finland’s very large and respected embassy work in that world is almost reduced to a series of lilliputut. I would like to take an example from Tanzania, where we had the opportunity to visit just over a month ago. In 2011, the total contribution per country amounted to 44 million, in 2016 to only 13 million. When I take the rest of the Nordic countries side by side, the Swedish support of 150 million, Norway's 100 million, was absolutely shocking to hear the embassy's own vision of what is happening to Finland as a country in Tanzania. The situation is that, in practice, our efforts are already so small that we feel that Finland is no longer taking matters seriously, not just about development cooperation, but even this cooperation between countries. This is an emergency cry, and I really would have liked the Foreign Minister to have been here to hear about this. It does not make much sense that when the staff are reduced in Finnish embassies, it leads to the actual ambassador becoming a klemma transferer from one table to another — time, I would say, a hard-paid group now focused on such office work, instead of promoting Finland’s ability as an export country, an exporter of services and just then an industrial exporter. Another issue to which I draw attention is the allocation of NGOs, which was cut by around EUR 40 million in 2016. So it's 65 million at the moment. Now in 2017, the real impact of these cuts is beginning to show. At the same time as our delegations turn into such lilliput delegations, the work of NGOs in these countries also retreats into shells and the enormous influence that Finland has had over the decades is now decreasing at a really fast pace. Our investment activities are increasing there, but there is not yet any assessment or guarantee of their actual impact, how they will eventually produce. Mr President! The mission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs includes long-term work that goes beyond the term of government, which has led to the idea that Finland has a good reputation, as a rich Nordic country, we have the opportunity to help those who need help. Now this reputation is falling apart every day because this surgery program of ours is starting to show the real result that results from these surgeries. My wish is for the NGOs and then our own embassies to be heard more on these issues. That work there is no longer meaningful because these appropriations, which are currently being allocated to it, will soon not be able to serve the real interests of Finland there. This is a great loss.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u135	Mr President! Finland’s development cooperation expenditure is estimated at EUR 881 million in 2017. In line with the Government’s line, the total budget for development cooperation will be reduced by EUR 200 million during the Government’s term of office as part of fiscal adjustment measures. In addition, EUR 130 million of gift aid will be transferred to loans and venture capital and will be channelled through responsible companies to developing countries. The budgetary plan for 2017-2020 will target a new saving of EUR 25 million in development cooperation expenditure from 2018. As a result, the budget for development cooperation amounts to an average of 0.39% of gross national income during the spending limits period. The Government has also decided to stop directing emissions auction revenues to development cooperation, which significantly reduces the amount of funds spent on development cooperation. For example, in 2014, these emissions trading revenues were allocated to development cooperation by EUR 69 million. All the government parties, even before the elections, expressed their readiness for these development cooperation cuts. For years the Finns have been critical of the amount spent on development aid. Now you're using power when you have it. Development assistance is provided at an international level of around EUR 100 billion per year. For example, the results of decades of aid in Africa have remained at best contradictory. The largest donor is the United States with over EUR 30 billion, but they account for only 0.2% of the country's gross national income. Only a handful of countries provide development aid with a 0.7% share of their gross national income as recommended by the UN. Mr President! Former representative of the Greens, Professor Eero Paloheimo sums up development aid in his book "This is Africa": "The most significant result of poorly designed and targeted development aid is decadence." Writer Jukka Mallinen has said that an inefficient thinking on development aid says the proverb "no water carried in the well". According to the model, efficiency is the phrase "don't give the hungry fish but a fish with which he can fish for himself". I believe that only those developing countries have been successful in liberalising their economies, reducing taxation and removing barriers to foreign trade, entrepreneurship and employment, and price and wage regulation. Countries that have deliberately sought to break their dependence on development aid have developed best. China uses development aid more wisely than Western countries to build a new alliance empire. What has been achieved by the huge amount of development aid? As early as 2010, the EU Commission announced that the Union's development aid policy must be radically reformed: "If we continue as we are now – and even if we increase aid – progress in many of the beneficiary countries will be very limited or even non-existent." That is what the EU Commissioner for Development said in the European Parliament. One of the reasons for the great development aid is the ignorance of citizens. According to a survey commissioned by Finns on TNS Gallup a few years ago, 60% of citizens would be prepared to reduce development funds. True, Finns do not know how much is being spent on development aid. The most common estimate was 150 million in the study, compared with 1124 million in real terms. Two thirds estimated less than half of the right amount of development aid. Thus, traditional state-led development aid provides an incentive not to develop. For example, the causes of Africa’s problems are often summed up in colonial borders, the irresponsible behaviour of companies and the unfairness of the market economy system. Is it not more immoral that Africa has not risen by hundreds of billions of euros over the decades?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u136	Mr President! Despite its size, the section of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is very important for Finland’s future. The fact that Finland will be President of the Arctic Council for the next three years from next year brings Finland’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and related activities to an internationally very interesting arena. In that area, Finland has enormous potential in terms of economic and international cooperation. We all know that the international situation since the events in Crimea has been very tense, and the events in Syria, too, have caused the relationship between the great powers to be extremely problematic. There is mistrust, but despite all these difficult situations, one must believe that the foreign ministries and the foreign policy leadership of the various countries will continue to make good decisions and start to converge and resolve these crises. The northern regions are the keys to future growth, that is the indisputable fact. We now have a stake place in Finland in the next three years as President of the Arctic Council to take matters forward and at the same time to monitor the interests of Finns. The undisputed fact is that the Arctic region has huge natural resources in the north. There is natural gas there, there is oil there, and, for example, the value of the ore reserves in the Kola Peninsula region and of natural resources in general is said to be hundreds of billions of euros, and that is absolutely certain that Russia will introduce them over the next 20 years. Russia alone will not survive that work with its own technology and capital. Therefore, as Finland's northern state and high-tech country, a major role must be played here, and it is now being opened up to us as one of the means of this Arctic Council Presidency. This is where we play the game, if any. One thing: in our own decisions, we must also take this into account in internal policy, and that means that we must make a significant contribution to the development of transport links in the north. In the air transport sector, the fields that have already been developed need to be put in even better shape. The Arctic rail link — I have always warmly supported it and I have wondered why it has not been made. I am quite surprised that justified speeches have been made about the fact that there is no traffic there. Well, there's no traffic on any of those tracks that hasn't been built yet. It is worth making the track first, i.e. creating the transport connection, in which case the market will be opened up. At the same time as we are discussing whether Helsinki should be turned into a railway tunnel under the sea to Tallinn, it is advisable for the greatest fans to get to know in depth what has happened to the economy of the tunnel under the Calais Strait. France and the British have the second and third largest economic powers in Europe on its shores. These two major economic concentrations, hugely large compared to Finland, have not been able to view the short tunnel under the Calais Strait as profitable other than with huge subsidies. The money has been blamed on billions of dollars, and I still don't think it's economically viable today, and if so, it's very scarce. With regard to this estimate of the cost of the tunnel to Tallinn, what has been presented publicly, it could only be said that what is, for example, the accuracy of the estimate of the cost of the metro to the west — it is terrifying to think about the real cost of a tunnel in Tallinn. But if a line is built on the Arctic Ocean, we know the cost, because it is mobile on earth and manageable. As far as the Arctic Council is concerned, we have a place for the game and it must be fully exploited. It should also be noted with great pleasure in the section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that, although the resources of the delegations have been reduced, it has been possible to concentrate small sums of money so that two delegations can actually get more and one consulate to set up properly. In other words, the key areas that are important for Finland's foreign policy and for the economy have been able to invest more. This is an extremely important point and, above all, the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its relations also play a major role in economic matters. Team Finland's strong forwarding is in Finland's great interest, and we must not under any circumstances underestimate Team Finland's achievements, but we must also learn from what Finpro has achieved so far, for example, and try to find this concept so that the money can be spent as efficiently as possible. There is no doubt that the appropriations for actual development cooperation have been reduced; that is an indisputable fact, but, Mr President, this is where we can say that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u137	Mr President! As I said yesterday in my speech, the European Commission has also acknowledged that there are significant weaknesses in the structure of European asylum and immigration policy. I believe that human smugglers are the dregs that ruthlessly exploit people's distress. Through social media, among other things, they have entered incorrect information about the target countries and their asylum practices. A person can pay for all his possessions to get on a dangerous journey, and when he got there, the situation may not have been as promised and the disappointment may be great. Mr President! Communication and its success are always important. The Finnish Foreign Minister has also understood the importance of communication in this migration communication. The potential asylum seeker is provided with information on Finnish asylum practices in his or her native language. On the basis of the correct information, the person who leaves will have the opportunity to make a choice, to leave or not. In its report, the Committee on Finance also welcomed the communication by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Ministry of the Interior, on the countries of origin and transit of asylum seekers. The report therefore proposes an additional allocation of EUR 250000 for next year. This, if anything, is a good thing. Mr President! Finland has also been interested in Finland’s migration communication at EU level, and Finland has responded to various questionnaires sent by the Commission on its migration communication.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u138	Mr President! It is excellent that one of Finland's priorities for development cooperation is to improve the position of women and girls. It is known to be the only sustainable path to prosperity and better living conditions in societies and also to the success of peace processes. Education is, of course, the key to breaking the cycle of poverty, and training girls and women is the best possible development aid and ensuring that girls do not break the school path. I would hope that Finnish education skills can increasingly be used as part of development aid. We have a lot of such things, for example Finnish teacher training, which would certainly be part of the demand for development aid, i.e. linking education exports with development aid, so that Finnish education exports can be made for girls' protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u139	Mr President! One last point I would like to make: when Mr Elo said that the results of the ill-designed development cooperation have come to light in those developing countries, it is quite clear, of course, that badly designed development cooperation is also a bad result. When I was in Tanzania, it was particularly important to see how hugely productive Finnish development cooperation is, the projects that Finland has carried out there: the management of the forest, planting, huge potato plantations, the introduction of a nutritious potato, which is processed there and sown, and the emergence of such potato farms within village communities that produce well-being, work, children's health and everything. When compared with this money, which we see here as being large, what benefits have been gained over the past 20 years, for example. I have to say that sometimes when you hear a debate in this Chamber about how Finnish money does not benefit from development cooperation, it is pure ignorance. It is worth visiting, driving into the jungle and seeing how brilliant the Finns are doing. Another observation is that the more difficult the conditions are, the more certain it is that there will be some development cooperation produced by the Finnish congregation that will plant education, child care and health care. It's super-job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u140	Mr President! For a long time, I will sign the criticism of development aid which Mrs Elo has raised here. It is clear, of course, that the development aid networks will achieve one thing and another, and we should not belittled at all that nothing has been achieved. But then a whole other question is whether there will be some results that will also have a lasting effect in the long term. And at its worst, development aid — and in many cases it has resulted — has created an unhealthy relationship between the donor and the beneficiary, which, at its worst, may even have slowed the recipient’s ability to rise on his own feet. Well, then we come to the question that from time to time in this Chamber there is such a confrontation, that we should help on the ground or rather favour being here to help. Personally, I am one of those people who feel that it is certainly more sensible to help on the ground, and I also believe that healthy, peaceful, stable societies have a defined duty to help. But this does not yet mean that we should support development aid such as the one we have at present, or at least development aid that is likely to create dependency. For example, it is precisely in the role of women, in education and in helping undeveloped societies, or at least at a stage of development, to strengthen their own democratic institutions and the rule of law — structural aid of this kind that I think we are involved in. But this does not eliminate the fact that the criticisms raised earlier by Mr Elo are, in my view, entirely relevant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u141	Mr President! Development cooperation is really important and it is hoped that development funding will reach higher levels, as the UN's objective is. I would see that development cooperation in many areas can be very profitable, as it has been. Of course, everything must also be looked at critically, but in any case it would be hoped that it could continue on a broad front. I wanted to take the floor, in fact, largely because I was struck by a paragraph in the report which says that Finland's development policy and development cooperation are based on the implementation of the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030. Finland is investing in four priorities in development cooperation. These four priorities are very important and, as I have said before, we are talking very loudly about these in development cooperation, but I would like all four of them to be realised here in Finland. In other words, the rights and status of women and girls could be strengthened: here in Finland, too, the rights to study, profession and career advancement could be equal regardless of background and conviction. That's what we're talking about abroad, but what about home? Then the development of the economies of developing countries in order to increase jobs, livelihoods and prosperity — a good thing. Strengthening the democratic and functional capacity of society — a very good thing. It would be desirable for these fundamental rights, constitutional rights, both for girls, women and children, to be better realised in Finland, here at home. Then food security, improved access to water and energy and the sustainable use of natural resources — they are, of course, also to be welcomed. Development cooperation is to be welcomed in many ways. It is great that we are in the world, not just talking, but acting in practice as we speak. I would like all of these to be fulfilled here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u142	Madam President! In that speech we did not say about development cooperation funds that cutting them now is quite understandable, since our economy has been in trouble since 2008, and now our economy has started to revive and quite a few good decisions have been made and there are quite clear indications that the economy is recovering. It is the wisdom to put your mouth to the sack and live in such a way that we are able to care for and help our fellowman, of course, as is often the case with these development cooperation issues. But there is also reason to be careful that we do not fall into the category of helpers ourselves. So we help ourselves by keeping the Finnish economy in order and then creating new growth, which will then give new opportunities for further development. In my view, there is nothing to blame for these cuts in the budget. It is wisdom to recognize the facts and to go along with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u143	Mr President! The maintenance of the Finnish embassies network abroad is very important. I agree with the report by the Committee on Finance that the role of the delegations is also central to the promotion of Finland's financial interests. Delegations offer support to Finns abroad, but at the same time they also promote Finnish and Finnish expertise. Delegations therefore also play an important role in supporting companies in their target countries. As Minister Soini said today, the economic situation of the network of representations is being balanced, but cost-effectiveness is being sought through cooperation with various Nordic countries, including through services. I myself have visited several embassies and sign the important role of embassies as a link between different local actors and the Finnish brand and Finnish expertise. Mr President! The security policy situation in Europe has become tense and is being challenged by difficult conflicts, refugees, increased terrorism, and does not bring an economic situation to it, at least to reduce the pressure, so it is quite right that the Committee on Finance, in its report, drew attention to the fact that changes in the international environment directly increase the security and security expenditure of the Finnish delegation network. That is something that deserves attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u144	Mr President! I thought to say a few more things about this debate on development cooperation when it came up during this debate. Of course, development cooperation is not something that is now in a stable state of age. We have very good examples of countries that, as a result of long-term development cooperation, have been able to raise their own standard of living, have been able to get on their feet — many of them, although Vietnam, Tanzania too, is one example and Namibia — and in time, of course, development cooperation has declined in those countries, but good links have been maintained and projects have changed shape. There is also effectiveness, but of course the evaluations carried out at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also highlighted the need to think at times about what issues Finland should focus on in development cooperation. Yes, I would raise a point which has not yet been sufficiently raised in this debate, but which the Minister, in fact, also raised in his own response earlier today. It is related to good governance, and it is linked, for example, to the expansion of the tax base. If I did not hear quite correctly, I think he mentioned that if a percentage were collected more than tax revenue in developing countries, it would in practice be more than all the development funds that are currently being channelled internationally. Well, then to this national question: Of course, the savings that are now being made in development cooperation are as high as a percentage, and they are also high in financial terms, but still the emphasis there is still on supporting the least developed countries and relative to GDP, and in fact their development aid will increase for Finland. We are now in the same league as Germany and France with regard to the 0.4. After all, the Nordic countries have partly reduced immigration costs to development cooperation costs, which I do not think they are. However, the major objective of the centre is still to be able to fulfil our obligations and to bring it up to 0.7.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u145	Madam President! I would like to draw attention to how the media, when dealing with the security situation in the Baltic Sea, are dominated by the most pressing comments and the most warring scenarios. We'll be prepared for the return of the power policy. It is good, of course, that we should be prepared, but it is not the whole picture of foreign and security policy, although it is now possible to get that idea at its worst. The clear aim of Finland’s foreign and security policy is to prevent Finland from becoming a party to a military conflict. Regrettably, there is little public debate on these means. Here in Parliament, the debate has been balanced and diverse in this regard. Let us hope that the promotion of diplomacy and dialogue will never experience inflation and will also be seen in public outside this house more spectacularly. In addition, to that excellent speech by Mr Kulmun on development cooperation, I would like to point out, in his words, how important the long line in development cooperation is and that we must definitely have the objective that these developing countries will have their own good governance and that there will be progress in the democratic process, and even if so much more tax revenue will also be collected in order to make them do much better on their own. There is a long way to go, of course, but this objective must be clear in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u146	Madam President! Here Mr Rydman mentioned the creation of an addiction in development cooperation countries. It is true that it is happening there too, but when reference was made to this long-term development cooperation in the past, the aim is always to help as a result of this development cooperation, and that is the development in which Finland is particularly good. In the Northern Tanzania region, for example, the first school and hospital were built by a Finnish Pentecostal movement. It has already taken place in the 20th century, and it is the living history of Tanzania, how the curve of development in Tanzania changed by the fact that a hospital and school have been built there with the help of Finnish volunteers. Unfortunately, we often talk here about development cooperation on a light basis. The evaluation methods are also not entirely honest. One such very concrete example: Tanzania's gross domestic product is currently growing by 8 percent — 8 percent a year — but poverty continues to increase. This is because the birth rate is so huge, with nearly 6.5 children per woman born in Tanzania. The birth rate in Africa is so high that it is estimated that in 2050 there will be 2.4 billion people in Africa. Think. It is to be expected that the next great migration will come from Africa to Europe, because there is such a small sub- and middle class growing so strongly that they will no longer have enough of what they are getting from Africa, but will leave. We are not prepared for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u147	Madam President! To this very same subject. Of course, helping always has its own moral value, but if helping leads to a passive or no more effort on its own or to such a need for personal effort, then the practical effect of a good purpose may be something other than what was actually sought in the first place. Of course, anti-poverty work is absolutely central throughout the world, globally, because it will have consequences for many other factors, but if you look at the issues that have most affected people in developing countries from poverty, then there is one thing that will rise above others, and it is free trade and market economy, because it is explicitly the positive, equitable, fair interdependence that trades across borders and obtains products from their own countries for export as well. Of course, if society is very chaotic and there are no institutions that would create such positive, voluntary exchanges, such as trade, then of course it will not be created. It is therefore essential that, in my view, the contributions made to development cooperation and to helping poor countries should and should focus specifically on strengthening the rule of law structures, strengthening democracy, structural issues that do not in themselves create an economic dependency but create a basis for the creation of a market economy, well-functioning companies and thus prosperity, which may then be on a slightly more sustainable basis than a clean aid relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u148	Mr President! Earlier in the presence of ministers, I asked how Finland and, overall, the Nordic countries are involved internationally in the UN, for example, if and when Sweden becomes a member of the Security Council and even a chairman. The reason is that we Nordic countries share a lot of common issues, including common values on gender equality, wage equality and so on. What is the time for Trump's election victory, the election result of the USA, the impact on women's position and equality, but before the election, Trump threatened to sue the women who accused him of harassment, and when I visited Washington and New York about a month ago, he talked a lot of people in New York as well as in Washington. As far as the USA is concerned, Trump has won the election on domestic affairs and will therefore most likely focus on domestic issues, such as taxation, its reduction from the rich and the country's large investments in infrastructure. It is likely that both the Paris Agreement and the UN funding, climate change as a whole, will be under test. Renewable energy, the circular economy, is hardly part of Trump's vocabulary unless there is a political will at state level to improve the real world. What does that mean for the UN Security Council? The United States is likely to move closer to Britain, i.e. through Brexit, England, Great Britain, looking west. There is nothing new about it in itself; we have seen it before. What's going on in Syria? We may even find ourselves in a situation where both Russia and the USA together support the continuation of the Al-Assad regime. What, then, does this mean for the other permanent members of the UN Security Council, namely France, Great Britain and China? The Swedish challenge is not easy. That is why I asked Minister Soin how closely Finland cooperates with Sweden and how Finland and Sweden share a common view on such challenging international policy issues. But all new leaders must have time to show their skills. This also applies to Donald Trump, but I do not believe that he can restore the jobs of an American coal or steel worker. On the contrary, he has problems seeing major changes in the world in terms of technology, electrification of traffic and so on. I even believe that: China will surprise us with how ready we are. China is adopting technological change, a modern world, when the USA is likely to reverse time. Let me say a few words to Minister Kai Mykkänen. In Washington, the World Bank raised the fact that Finland is rather poor, I would say, involved in international projects in which the World Bank acts as a financier. This also has a large and direct link to development aid, and I would see that Finland should really get together in cooperation projects with the World Bank and take the example of Denmark in this regard. I would suggest that the government or its corresponding ministers invite the World Bank's leadership here in Finland so that we can get involved in these entities. In addition to this, Mr Mykkänen has enough challenges to follow the fate of both TTIP and the NAFTA agreement, which may also be on Trump's agenda. What happens in the world of free trade, what happens in Finland, what happens in the USA, its time will tell.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u149	Madam President! A little more on development cooperation. Mr Rydman put forward here the advantages of free trade or the positive aspects of free trade in relation to developing countries, but yes I would say that there are very many question marks and exclamation marks, precisely as to who benefits from it and where the funds actually go and how much it will benefit developing countries, precisely in terms of their development. But without going further into it, I would see that in development cooperation the key things that Finland has been, and indeed from the outset many congregations have been exporting to African countries, for example, are education and health: basic education — to read, to count learning, to teach basic things — on the one hand, health care, to improve it. Yes, both are issues that contribute to the well-being of citizens and also contribute to the acquisition of a profession and, in the future, to the production of products that can then be sold forward, and I would see that these are also a basic basis for the democratic rule of law to be able to be built, for example, by citizens in African countries. It also focuses on respect, appreciation, caring for fellow humans, that is, whether it is a small weak child in a developing country, a housewife or an elderly person who has already fallen ill, everyone is respected, respected, cared for, cared for. It has been said that the strength of the kingdom is reflected in the way we care for our weak. And yes, as Mr Laukkanen has pointed out in a few speeches, I would see that Finland's development cooperation has been very good in many countries. From the feedback that has come from there, I would see that this is one area from which the Finns can be quite happy. We'll try better in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u150	Section 27 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence is now presented. The presentation will be carried out by the section president, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u151	Mr President! An amount of around EUR 2.8 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence, which represents approximately 1.3 per cent of GDP. The Committee welcomes the fact that, in accordance with the Government Programme, the proposal includes an increase from EUR 50 million to EUR 80 million for the correction of the Defence Forces' material performance deficiencies. Despite this increase, the total budget for the administrative sector will fall by approximately EUR 57 million. This is mainly due to the extension of material procurement and the competitiveness agreement. The committee notes that the problem for the Defence Forces is the reduction in operational expenditure that has been and will continue to be cumulated over several years. In line with the Defence Forces reform, the number of personnel has been reduced to reflect the revised level of activity. However, in the course of the reform, it was not possible to see what kind of security conditions will be in place towards the end of this decade. The committee is concerned about how the Defence Forces will be able, with the resources proposed, to respond to the tasks assigned to them. Particular attention must be paid to the availability of adequate human resources to provide both appropriate military preparedness and effective and safe training. In addition to professional soldiers, the training is carried out by regular contract soldiers, which are primarily intended to ensure an adequate number of trainers in military training. The committee notes that the draft budget does not include the appropriations necessary for the recruitment of temporary contract soldiers. The contract military system also supports the employment of young people. The committee adds EUR 296,000 to the provision of temporary contract soldiers. The committee welcomes the fact that, despite the tight state of central government finances, the number of military field days, reserve refresher exercises, flight hours and vessel days can be maintained at 2016 level. It is also essential to provide funding for the maintenance and maintenance of the systems. The maintenance of the material and the ammunition shortage must be resolved in a sustainable way and the gap must not increase. The Committee also highlights the importance of the Defence Forces' research and development activities, which are particularly highlighted in strategic performance projects. Squadron 2020 and HX. An amount of EUR 475 million is proposed for defence equipment procurement, which represents approximately 17% of the defence budget. However, a total of approximately EUR 930 million is to be spent on material preparedness, in addition to the item under consideration, including the modification of Hawk Mk 51 machines and the operational expenditure of the Defence Forces for the maintenance of the material and the fitting-out of troops. The committee agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Defence that material procurement should account for about one third of the defence budget. Mr President! Like its previous budget statements, the Committee stresses the importance of the domestic defence and security industry as a guarantor of security of supply. The committee welcomes the adoption by the Government of a decision in principle to safeguard the technological and industrial foundations of Finland's defence in April 2016. The decision lays down criteria, inter alia, for domestic procurement and industrial cooperation obligations. The guidelines set out in the principle decision must also be reflected in practice in the procurement activities of the Defence Forces. The committee also raises the issue of joint Nordic procurement and considers it necessary for the Defence Forces to assess the possibility of joint procurement. Finally, Mr President, the committee will restore support for the activities of defence organisations to the 2016 level by increasing the budget by EUR 404,000. The committee finds it highly reprehensible that Parliament's increase in the previous year's budget has been reduced again. The desire expressed by Parliament for several years to maintain an adequate level of funding has not been taken into account. The committee expects the government to take this into account in the draft budget for 2018. Finally, I would also like to thank all the members of the section for their cooperation this year. For all these sections, things have been brought to an end in an uncomplicated and good spirit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u152	Mr President! Thank you to the Administrative and Security Section of the Committee on Finance and to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets for the necessary additions to the defence budget. It must also be said that the opinion of the Committee on Defence on the defence budget was aptly readable. It can be said that Parliament's views are largely in line with the original draft budget of the Ministry of Defence. EUR 404,000 allocated to support the activities of defence organisations is a significant increase in voluntary defence work. It enables, among other things, the organisation of several preparatory and safety training courses of the National Defence Training Association. For my part, I promise that in its draft budget for 2018, the Ministry of Defence will again propose a permanent increase in this state grant item to the level of EUR 2,029 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u157	After the Minister, we can, and should, have a debate on this theme. I would ask those representatives who wish to use the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u158	Mr President! First of all, full support for the Minister for the proper organisation of the funding of defence organisations in a permanent manner. Parliament's will must also be carried out at the Ministry of Finance and on the Government's side. It's not supposed to allow you to stretch. It's the right thing to do. You're gonna have to back it up. A small question about this mine issue, which has been for the minister in quite a way this kind of important forwarding when talking about the Ottawa agreement on the compensation system for anti-personnel mines. Well, that's quite a long way to go, but the Minister thinks that one angle is unreplaced. What is the point of this project at the moment? What's the schedule? Then another question, although this is not Question Time: According to the latest study, the will to defend the country had been slightly relaxed. What kind of interpretation does the minister make of this fallacy, and what may perhaps be done? Do you need to do something to get handsome figures from the will to defend the country again?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u159	Mr President! I too would like to pay tribute to Minister Niinistö for the good leadership of the Defence Forces and the necessary reforms. The idea of a limited increase in the number of reserves must also be supported and responded to the conclusions that need to be drawn as a result of changes in the European situation. Then we'll come to another matter. That morning, in connection with the section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we talked for quite a long time about the EU summit. It seems that there is now a great deal going on there which specifically concerns the defence sector. The European Union, at least according to the information that has come to light, is on the way to closer defence cooperation: a decision has been taken on the headquarters of operations and a decision has also been taken on the Defence Fund and then the possibility of this structured cooperation has been opened up. These are all very important issues for Finland. It would be important for the whole Parliament to be informed quickly now what has been decided, what is the Finnish Government's line and how these affect our defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u160	Reply, Chairman of the Committee on Defence, represented by Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u161	President! I agree with the questions raised by both colleagues as regards the Minister's policies, as well as the questions they have already asked. But while we probably have the whole idea that it is always the highest priority for Finland's own national security to keep matters in its own hands, it is also very useful in the same breath to say that international cooperation in a security setting such as today is very necessary for many very tangible reasons. I would like to ask: how does the Minister assess how cost-effective — now that we are talking about the budget — is increasing international cooperation? And in fact, how little of our entire defence budget today is international cooperation? Does the Minister have a vision that we still have unused capacity in that sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u162	Mr President! Indeed, the world of security policy has completely changed from what the Minister said when the defence power reform was carried out, and it has also changed dramatically from the moment this government was brought together. It is a great thing that we have a motivated and governing minister in the field of defence. But my real question is about the Lion Catering. When the information came out that its activities were re-oriented, i.e. it withdraws from the market and focuses on its core role, what are the consequences of this? Are there any possible human resources implications? And when, according to public information, it has been decided some weeks ago, why has it only come out today?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u163	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his good work and, above all, for your policies on European cooperation and cooperation between Finland and Sweden and the Nordic countries. These are extremely important sectors and you have been very active in them. In fact, there is my question: how do you see the impact of this European Defence Fund and these new mechanisms on your own sector, even in the light of the meeting in Brussels? Someone has said that the EU differs positively from NATO in that it can budget matters on these issues and, if it so wishes, it can implement legislative changes in the defence sector as well. And also: What does this cooperation with Finland—Sweden, in your view, bring in soon? What are the potential material needs of Finland in developing this cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u164	Mr President! Here Mr Kääriäinen pointed out that the will to defend the country has fallen short. At the same time, some studies or surveys point to the very worrying point of view that a relatively large proportion of Finns already consider it likely that in the next 10 to 15 years Finland will end up in armed conflict, either likely or very likely. In other words, at the same time that the will to defend the country, according to the studies, has fallen short, the fear of a direct armed conflict has increased. And this has to do with this change in the environment and increased risk of conflict and military movement, for example, in the Baltic Sea and elsewhere. But personally I would like to ask: what does the Minister of Defence assess about these trends in Finnish consciences? I am concerned that fear of war is growing and preparation for war
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u165	Mr President! As Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that the support of defence organisations, EUR 404,000, has now been returned to where it belongs. And we must hope, next year, that the Minister will have this fight for funding for the coming year, that in the future 404,000, or whatever the amount is at the bottom of the MPK, will already exist in the budget book, that the committee will no longer have to return to it in its own opinion, let alone in other budget initiatives. The Minister has raised the issue of increasing the wartime forces by 50,000 on several occasions, and I ask the Minister: When I looked at that blue and white budget book, I could not find the euro for this withdrawal. In what way is this withdrawal of the wartime forces to be carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u166	Mr. Speaker! This funding of voluntary defence and its re-establishment to the level you have proposed, Minister, which the VM has cut between us, is an important issue — and I thank Parliament for that. I would also like to wish these negotiations good luck that in future we will be able to get this stroke out of the way between Parliament and the Ministry of Finance. A very important piece of information came this week in relation to the Arms Directive. In it, Finland achieved its goal of achieving the reserve derogation. You too, Minister, worked very hard on this, together with the Minister for the Interior, on several occasions. How would you describe this process, how it has progressed, and the significance of this reserve derogation for our defence? - We're
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u167	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and to Mr Niiko for his introduction. This is where Mr Kääriäinen, a former minister, rightly took this defence perspective and the will to defend the country, that is to say, this issue, and it is, of course, linked to these resources in many ways. I believe, and as a former scientist in the field, I can say in my own opinion, that the will to defend the country is certainly affected by the resources, among other things, what the reservists see as being in use and what they can use themselves. Of course, refresher exercises will also be a very important part of the action. I would like to ask about the resources of these, as you have said, Minister, about the equipment, about what is being allocated to procurement in greater detail, and what is the state of play in the review exercises. Indeed, we know that the will to defend the country in our defence solution is the lifeblood of the whole system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u168	Mr President! I too share the thanks that have been expressed here, particularly for this international cooperation. I think the Minister has handled that part well. I would like to continue where Mr Haavisto started this cooperation between Sweden and Finland. How does the minister also see wider Nordic cooperation? Is it possible to deepen and improve this cooperation, perhaps even along the road that Stoltenberg has set out in his time?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u169	Mr President! The will to defend the country is a very central cornerstone of the entire Finnish defence system, and therefore I share the concern expressed here about this latest opinion poll, in which as much as 30 per cent of young people, aged 25 to 34, answered the question that if Finland were to be attacked, would the Finns have to defend themselves armedly. This number has indeed increased and needs to be considered and monitored in what direction it is developing. In this respect, it is of course important to ensure that voluntary national defence and organisations are also able to operate and operate. At the same time, consideration should certainly be given to how to target this activity in such a way that it specifically addresses young people and strengthens this will to defend the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u170	Mr President! 1998-99 The military lost 73 pilots to civil aviation. At that time, it was rather late to wake up. 30. The Memorandum of November 99, signed by the Ministry of Defence, set out the means by which this pilot removal could be stopped. Now we're looking at a new pilot's disappearance. For Finnair’s autumn pilot recruitment, 50 pilots applied. On the basis of a survey of military pilots, up to 70% of respondents may be required for future civil aviation searches. Finland and its small air force cannot afford to lose any highly trained fighter pilots prematurely, especially in a situation where there are already too few Defence Forces personnel in relation to the increased workload. I would like to ask the Minister: will there be a response to this situation, and if so, how?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u171	Mr President! Earlier speeches have highlighted the money of defence organisations, which comes from the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence. It is very good that this money will also be secured for next year, and this level will also be maintained for the next few years. In this regard, however, I would have just raised the issue of the development of the will to defend the country. Particularly for young people and women, these surveys have raised concerns about where it is developing. In particular, I would like to highlight the situation of voluntary national defence training in that, at the moment, when every Finnish citizen has a national defence obligation, we train just under half of the age group, which means that in practice women are not trained in times of crisis. I would have asked specifically about this resilience of the crisis, about which we have recently been discussing how, through the development of voluntary defence, we can also train women more strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u172	Mr President! I too would like to add my voice to this point raised by Mr Heinäluoman on the news of the European Union summit. Here Online News actually tells us — Online News, which is a good magazine — that Finland has been working with France and Germany for a year to develop a common EU defence, Juha Sipilä has thus outlined in the News of Online News. I too think that this is a very big issue, and it is of course very important that this can be discussed as soon as possible by the whole Parliament, and that we can also have an explanation of what is happening in this deepening of defence cooperation, what new guidelines have been made there, what has been the position of Finland and, for example, how we are now responding to this structural cooperation, whether we are going to join in. So, President, I would like to underline and emphasise to the Minister that this is a very big and important issue. I hope you can already.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u173	Mr President! Today, Finland’s national interest is a slightly different issue than it was some decades ago. Finland’s international interest may also include, for example, defending another EU Member State or providing them with assistance. This, of course, involves the provision of international assistance, which is now also part of the Defence Forces' remit, but it will of course now extend to the tasks of the EU solidarity clause and the mutual assistance clause. Of course, there has been much debate here about the role of the current Defence Forces staff in providing this international assistance. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we made a statement on this, stating that it would be desirable for the Defence Forces staff, who have entered into service, to carry out their duties before this new regulation comes into force and who then uses military force in such a task, would have consent. How does the Secretary of Defense see this question? This will, of course, go to the defence committee's discretion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u174	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Kiuru, Mr Pakkanen, Mr Hakanen and, lastly, the section president, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u175	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his uncomplicated cooperation with both the Committee on Defence and the Section for Administration and Security and also with the opposition. We have very similar pictures of the main lines, and this is how it should be. The Ministry of Defence proposed EUR 2.6 million for the recruitment of contract soldiers, i.e. an additional request, and would have received 100 man-years. Unfortunately, we will only be able to meet this need with about 10%, i.e. EUR 296,000. But the question for the Minister is that, when there has been a number of accidents this year — at least this is how it feels — in which there has been an injury to military personnel or reservists during exercises, and, of course, when there are pressurised situations, sometimes in bad circumstances, the damage happens whether this can be linked to the fact that the number of trainers in relation to those who are trained is not optimal, and whether there is something to do with the ability of the staff to cope with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u176	Mr President! I would also like to add my thanks both to the Minister and to the committee's work with the representatives of the opposition parties. Defence is a common matter and the line is clear, there is broad consensus on it. The return of subsidies from defence organisations is indeed an important issue, and thank you also for the very unanimous decision taken by the section. As the Minister said, all in all this is a fitting and fluent reading. The progress of the Arms Directive is perhaps the most recent positive thing at the moment, for which there is also a place of thanks. But I'm going to ask the minister a question. There's been talk here about sending out a crisis response force. What is currently the capability of the Ministry of Defence to send a questionnaire to new crisis management sites in the coming year?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u177	Congressman Hakanen and then Niikko last before the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u178	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a well-managed task. My question relates to this provision of external assistance and the response and the coercion of a soldier, the consent to that task. As a professional soldier of this age, I cannot support the idea that soldiers in office can be assigned to such a task by a charter, but should be voluntary, as we also undertake peacekeeping tasks on a voluntary basis. I would like to ask the Minister how staff organisations have been taken into account here during this preparatory work and what the Minister's point of view is now building on this issue, whether this could be taken in the direction that this is really voluntary, and when new people embark on training, it could then be made clear that such tasks will also be assigned to the service in the context of the appointment. I would like to stress that the staff have also been very closely associated with this issue, and I would also like to hear from the Minister how this is going to proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u179	The President of the Section before the Minister's intervention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u180	Mr President! The section is pleased to note that the Minister of Defence has done well in the management of his ministry and the related external relations, and thank you for that. But there is one more question about this area of the Russian axis. Russia has introduced this Bastion maritime defence system in Kaliningrad, and it has been said that they can even close the Danish straits of the Baltic Sea. Now that the fleet 2020 project is based on the acquisition of four ocean liners with a price of EUR 1.2 billion, there has also become speculation that these Navy-wanted corvettes will be easy targets for these Russian missiles. I would like to ask the Minister that it is not only here that there may be a mistake that was made during the Fleet 2000 strategy when this airbag purchase was pulled down in 2003 and the one windship that was acquired was scrapped a few years ago, because it was in fact a bad project and, fortunately, it was cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u181	Well, the minister now has three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u182	Mr President! For a long time I can agree with the previous speakers, excellent questions, and thank you very much for your support. The defence of the country is indeed a common cause across government and opposition boundaries. I'm trying to answer as many questions as I can. Mr Kääriäinen asked about this mine issue, which has been outlined in the Government Programme, and it will be further outlined in the Defence Report, which will be submitted to Parliament at the beginning of the spring session. It is planned that this takeoff canister-type explosive will be ready for testing next year, so much of it can be reported at this stage. In addition to Mr Kääriäinen, at least Mr Räsänen and Mr Jarva asked about the fall in the will to defend the country. The reason for this is that we are currently working on it. This was a clear decrease of 7 percentage points. Last time there was a similar landing in 1988. It is therefore a question of these studies by MTS every year, but it is too early to say whether this is a trend. It must be remembered that this is a sample of a thousand people; it is not worth drawing too big conclusions on the basis of a one-year result. But it was noteworthy that in the same study the support for general military service continued to increase. But in any case, these reasons are given some thought in the research project currently under way at the National Defence College. Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Viitanen asked about defence cooperation in the EU. I agree that this is important for Finland and, for example, at the European Council, Prime Minister Sipilä has recently discussed these issues. One can say that, for example, this issue of the defence fund is at its very beginning, but the European Council must have offered some time-scale steps. But this EU defence cooperation, as well as Nordic defence cooperation, will, of course, offer the opportunity to discuss the Foreign and Security Policy Report next Wednesday and, of course, during the discussion of the Defence Report. Mr Kanerva asked how cost-effective it is to increase international cooperation. I would say that cost-effectiveness can be applied for in these material procurements in particular. So far this has not been achieved very much, but now, in the framework of Nordic cooperation, for example, we are planning to do this together, and we hope, of course, that cost savings will be made. Congressman Kivelä asked about the situation at the Lion Catering. Contrary to the Government Programme The lion Catering is not opening up to competition because it is a matter of readiness for the defence administration. Security of supply is our top priority, and the Ministry of Defence has not been responsible for providing information. But now, Mr President, my time is up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u183	For my part, I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for the fact that, contrary to what happened here many times, the Minister for Defence did not exceed time but remained in the time budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u184	Mr President! In the difficult economic situation in which we live, we need to take care of the basic functions of society. In particular, given the tensions that exist in the Baltic Sea and which have also increased in recent years, it is absolutely essential that Finland, which has decided, at least for the time being, to be a non-aligned country, retains a sufficient defence capability and also a deterrent on behalf of its own armed forces. This is important for two reasons: First of all, because it raises the threshold to target Finland with armed or other violent activities. Secondly, it also considers Finland an interesting partner for other countries. However, when the economic situation continues to be tough and I am sure that painful decisions will continue to be taken, I hope that the government will continue to maintain defence spending as a key priority and that cooperation with, for example, Sweden and the Nordic countries will remain close.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u185	Mr President! The last government's Secretary of Defense, Wallin, left me with a bit of a toothpaste. I would have asked him a few questions, but unfortunately he's not here. First of all, I agree with Mr Niinistö's thanks for the good work he has done. Our eastern neighbour has concentrated his armed forces near our eastern border. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: does the Minister for Defence have much concern about the increased presence of Russian armed forces in the vicinity of the eastern border? In particular, I would like an answer to this effect in order to bring about the closure of the North Karelia Brigade from Kontioranta and on the eastern border, people are very concerned that the Russian armed forces have increased in that vicinity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u186	Mr President! It is clear that Finland needs a credible defence of its own in order to safeguard the sovereignty of our country, and that is why it is important to take care of its own defence. We know that the picture of war today is quite different and much more diverse than before. We also know that material costs are increasing and that there is already a need on that side. In addition, there are many large acquisitions waiting to be made. The Minister has told us that the forthcoming defence policy report is about to increase the number of wartime troops. This is partly through the inclusion of conscripts in strength, but there is also a desire to increase the number. How do you see that the increase in wartime forces will meet today's challenge of defence? How much more will it require when it is clear that if the number of troops is increased, they must also have sufficient equipment? And is the increase in the number of wartime forces the most sensible part of our defence to which to commit resources in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u187	Mr President! First of all, this increase in the strength of the wartime forces. That is a very worthy idea. The reserve has more tasks, especially at the local level where the regions are known and regional sites can be defended. I'm sure this is the present day, the right way. In fact, I would like to ask about these plans: is it precisely now the intention to increase these strengths of local battalions? Then there is this weapons directive, which I asked about and to which the Minister has not yet had time to comment. In this respect, we must express our most humble thanks to the whole of Parliament for its agreement — that this was a joint project for the whole of Parliament. Congressman Mika Kari worked really hard,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u190	Mr President! More speakers have already raised the issue of the ability of the Defence Forces' staff to cope, and not without reason, namely that the Defence Forces' staff are at the edge of fatigue and, in part, exhausted. This is reflected in surveys conducted by both employers and organisations. The security policy situation has significantly increased the number of preparedness tasks and will continue to increase. At the same time, the funding of the Defence Forces will be cut in different ways from the operating expenditure side. A tightening of funding will force the Defence Forces to find ways that will even affect the compensation paid to staff. In the Navy, for example, personnel have been present for up to 9 weeks at sea or on standby continuously. Understandably, this puts a particular strain on family members. So there are too few staff in relation to the increasing workload, and I would ask the Minister: how will this difficult and even dangerous equation be taken into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u191	Mr President! I agree with both these thanks and his assessment of the importance of local defence forces. It is one of the conclusions that is also important because of changes in European development and military activities. We have sufficient capabilities that are quickly available to the feet to defend key targets throughout the country. It is good that the Minister has raised this issue. Then I will continue with this development of European defence cooperation, because it is now the big factor that may be significantly changing here. When it was mentioned that Finland, together with Germany and France, has promoted this defence cooperation behind the scenes, in the meritful story of the Web News, quoted here by Mrs Viitanen, I wonder whether Minister Niinistö is aware of this cooperation with Germany and France behind the scenes during the year and what this has been about and whether it is not high time to open this matter up and tell the whole Parliament and, therefore, the Finnish people what is being done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u192	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, massive savings were made to the entire Defence Forces organisation and the garrison was also abolished, the troops were merged. How does the Minister see this time now after this adaptation? Here, too, the representative raised the issue of the ability of this staff, but in what way has this entity been adapted, and in what way has the staff been involved in this too, so that when tasks have changed and the load has increased, and in that way the responsibility has also increased, has there really been such a rational effort to analyse these staff groups so that we can see that something really can be done when people start to wear out? I would like to reiterate again, Minister, the question of coercion or voluntary assistance, departure. I would like to ask about it because it is particularly important for every soldier who is currently performing an important role in the military profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u193	Mr President! Yesterday, during the oral Question Time, the possibility of voting online arose. It should be promoted. Now we have seen experiences such as the US presidential election and the possible cyber-manipulation threats associated with them — or whether there has been any influence on these things. I myself have been very positive in the development of the online vote, but these recent experiences have made me a little more reticent. How does the Minister see from the point of view of defence and from the point of view of the unity of the people whether we can take such a step when we take into account the risk of outside influence, for example, in the case of presidential elections or, if we go even further, in the case of a referendum on accession to NATO or non-accession?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u194	Mr President! I, too, would like to return to this news from the Online News that, for a year now, preparations have been being made to strengthen EU defence cooperation. Obviously, the intention is to build a fortress called Europe, and surely there is also a need, cause and justification for this type of activity. But after a year of progress in the process on the negotiating tables, and I myself have been a member of the Foreign and Security Policy Observatory for a year, it is bound to make me feel a little more like I have been sitting in the Foreign and Security Policy Group when the Monitoring Group has not been informed about this either during this year. Let me repeat what Mr Heinäluoma said earlier. Could the Minister please open this up a little bit? You're referring to the Prime Minister. Sipilä has discussed these issues at European tables. Is Foreign Minister Soini and Minister for Defence? The Ninesty were also on these same tables?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u195	Mr President! As we all know, this proposal for a defence budget can be regarded as a minimum level, as we also stated in the Committee on Defence. Particular concern is expressed about this proportion of the material budget, the overall budget and its adequacy. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you see this development? How can we make enough money for this part of the material without having to compromise the operating costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u196	At this stage, I will give the floor to the representatives of Viljanen and Kanerva. Then a little longer, perhaps five minutes, for the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u197	Mr President! I agree with many of the thanks that have already been expressed to the Minister of Defence here. The Minister and ministerial work enjoy trust across party boundaries. This is a very good situation. In fact, this situation should always be with the Minister of Defence, because defence is a matter for all of us, as has already been said several times. There has also been a lot of talk here today about the will to defend the country. It is essential for the defence and defence of the country that we are able to secure the Defence Forces' operating conditions, both in terms of material, personnel and refresher exercises. In this budget, all of these are secured in a way that is possible under these economic conditions, although there is a great deal of pressure on the material side, as Mrs Blomqvist has just said. Mr President! Voluntary defence is essential in terms of both the skills of the reserve and the maintenance of the will to defend the country. As Mr Savola has already mentioned here a couple of times, I would also like to highlight the recent good news about the Arms Directive on the future derogation for Finland. The exception is very important to us, and as an active reserver and on behalf of all of us, I would like to thank everyone who has worked for this exception across the party lines. At the same time, I would like to thank the Committee on Defence and the Section for defending the assistance of the reserve agencies and the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u198	Mr Viljanen took the first floor, and that was a bit too long for the President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u199	Mr. Speaker! In this case of the Web News today, I would like to take a position here that we should not see this mouse-elephant ratio in too dramatic a spotlight. The EU is and remains a civil organisation. The EU does not, and will not, have a policy such as Article 5. Our interest in Finland is that the European Union's foreign and security policy should be credible and that the methods at its disposal could, of course, contribute to strengthening stability politically, promoting negotiation processes and also providing added value to defence. But it is unjustified to create the impression that the European Union could be some sort of nail in which we could safely leave our coats and imagine that things would then be taken care of. However, it is important to keep the order of magnitude in all respects when this debate is taking place. Improving the competence of foreign and security policy, credibility, such as Syria or Ukraine
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u200	However, Mr Kanerva's speech has now given rise to a few replies. Even before the Minister, I will give the representatives the answers to Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Savola, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u201	Mr President! I very much appreciate Mr Kanerva's expertise and long experience in security matters and also in foreign policy and defence matters, but this time I fell a little short. In other words, the Treaty of the European Union contains this Article 47.2, which obliges us to provide assistance, and it has just been applied since this terrorist attack in Paris. I do not understand any reason to underestimate the importance of the mutual commitments made within the European Union. The least I can understand is that Finns are going to belittle them. Then I agree that there is no such coat on which we can hang our own coat and say that it has been taken care of, namely that the defence has been taken care of. Yes, under all circumstances, we must primarily take care of our own defence and keep it credible. There is also the will of the people to defend their country, and there is also the work that we are currently doing together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u202	Mr. Speaker! It is precisely the preservation and development of our own national defence capability that is the starting point. But as far as this common defence of the EU is concerned, there is certainly room for improvement within the European Union. These projects, which have so far been on the defensive, have not really received meat around the bones, and it is therefore good that this has now been discussed at the summit and that there is a desire to develop a common European defence. This has not yet been known in Parliament what this meat around the bones will be. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence about this: How are you going to inform Parliament about this? I'm sure we can get to the Defense Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u203	Mr. Speaker! You don’t always have to go through the whole chart, but everyone in this room will probably share the impression that their own nest must be kept in their own hands in all circumstances, first and foremost, safe. The second element is bilateral agreements: Finland — Sweden — Finland — United States, Finland — Great Britain, Finland — Germany and the United States. The third is the EU, which is unfortunately weak today, is sadly weak, but it cannot replace the fourth element which I have just mentioned and which is our partnership for peace, our partnership with NATO, which is very important and invaluable to Finland. So we should not create such an image that one of these elements would replace some other elements that would ensure the safety of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u204	Mr President! No one here has said that someone would replace something. I have not said that the development of European defence cooperation — or as described by Prime Minister Sipilä in an interview with Online News — would replace something. I have not said a word of this, but I have said that this will look like a very important step within the European Union if Mr Sipilä's statement corresponds to what has been decided there. And if we go this way, it will certainly strengthen our security. It's not taking anything from anywhere else. It's strengthening our security. But then we will have to take important positions on where we ourselves are involved in this European cooperation. That is why I hope that this will be opened up to the whole Finnish people and also to Parliament, what is being done, what is being planned, so that nothing can be done behind anyone's back.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u205	And now, Minister. I suppose it would be appropriate for the Minister to be given the floor at this stage? Then, if there is anything else of particular importance, Mrs Kanerva will come back to us. — Minister, the debate we just had ate 1 minute from you, you now have 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u206	Mr President! Representatives Mikkonen, Savola, Kari and Heinäluoma raised this issue of increasing the number of troops in wartime, which is a fact, so the defense report will present. There is no reason at this stage to state the amount, but the reasons for the increase are diverse. One, of course, is the need to strengthen local defence, just as has been said in this Chamber. We have three types of force: operational forces, regional forces and local forces. Unfortunately, the local forces have been neglected in this context and since. Protection of objects, among other things, is an essential task for local forces. But we will be returning to this whole in more detail in the defence report, which is currently under preparation. Several MPs, such as Mr Savola and Mr Viljanen, raised the issue of the Arms Directive, which seems to be heading in a favourable direction for Finland's voluntary defence. I therefore agree with the thanks of the whole House, an excellent consensus has been shown during this process, even the spirit of the Winter War. Mr Pelkonen and Mr Hakanen raised the question of the strength of the staff in the Defence Forces. That's the same problem I've encountered on my garrison tours. This is undoubtedly a problem and has received attention from the defence administration. It is clear that when the Defence Forces staff were counted from more than 14,000 to 12,000 in the reform of the Defence Forces, I think there is currently a figure of 11700, it is clear that this limit of 12,000 can no longer be calculated. Contractors are one thing that can ease the pressure on education that is currently under in the garrison, and I hope that Parliament will continue to do so. A lot of debate was raised by this EU defence dimension, at least by representatives of Heinäluoma, Kari, Savola and Kanerva. It is absolutely not the intention to act behind Parliament's back. There is no doubt that behind the scenes there has been progress at civil service level. At EU meetings, the Finnish line has been raised and the Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have been informed. These are an opportunity to discuss, for example, the Foreign and Security Policy Report, but if there is a need for a wider debate, then I personally have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u211	This section will be suspended at this stage and the debate on the section of the Ministry of Defence will continue at 2.30 p.m. This plenary session will be suspended and resumed at 2.30 p.m. and there will be a meeting of the large committee in the middle.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u212	The plenary session adjourned at 1.30 p.m. and the debate on the section of the Ministry of Defence will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u213	Mr President! The Finnish Defence Forces and Defence Forces are constantly on the road to a continuous decline, where the appropriations are falling and the transfer has to be carried out with various vis-à-vis the various vis-à-viss, in order to prepare for special situations. This changing environment in which we are now living has clearly created a state of inadequacy. This proposal will not change this either. Finland’s defence capability is no longer credible. It is clear, therefore, that in the near future we will have to consider in the longer term what kind of defence Finland really wants. If there was any real threat to our country, we will not be able to act on a level that will enable Finland to defend itself crediblely in a situation of real need at the moment. The NATO debate is taking place, various kinds of variations are being considered at various tables. I am not now declaring myself a proponent of NATO, but I am declaring myself a proponent of the debate that actually wonders what the situation is for our defence in which Finland can actually be defended. I also think that, when Finland already has a host country agreement with NATO, we have mutual agreements and special agreements with the United States, our armed forces are compatible with the NATO armed forces and I think we have perhaps the most pro-NATO government in our history, so what is the situation at the moment that these funds do not follow this will mode and the process of thinking that is in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u214	You can reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u215	Mr President! As Minister Niinistö said earlier today in his opening speech, the changing security environment was not visible in 2012 when the comprehensive reform of the Defence Forces was launched on the basis of the Katainen Government Programme. However, Finland has responded to the change in the security environment by, among other things, increasing its preparedness both by means of legislation and by increasing resources. The Defence Policy Report is currently being prepared and will analyse the actions that will be required in a defence policy environment that has changed to a high-performance defence. That's a good thing. From the point of view of security of supply, the resolution on safeguarding the technological and industrial base of Finnish defence was approved by the Government in April 2016. Mr President! The defence budget for 2017 and its additional appropriations totals EUR 2830 million, which is approximately 1.3 per cent of Finland's GDP and 5.1 per cent of total central government expenditure. It is a very good thing that the Defence Forces budget includes an increase of EUR 80 million in appropriations for material performance deficiencies under the Government Programme. Mr President! The Finnish defence has been built in the right direction that national defence has been preserved as the primary function of the Defence Forces throughout the ages. It is extremely important that Finland has maintained, and will continue to do so in the future, the general military duty and the defence of the entire country. Thank you to the Minister for your good work and thank you for the tournament's durability, even as this budget is being processed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u216	Mr President! Since 2014, the security situation in the Baltic Sea has become increasingly tense. This so-called new normal state has been reacted to not only in Finland but also in our neighbourhood. For example, in recent years most of our neighbouring countries have significantly increased their defence budgets and their level of activity. Many countries have also undertaken to reinstate their previously abolished military service in one form or another. It has not been long since Finland’s defence policy based on general military duty and defence of the country as a whole was still a source of wonder in many European countries. The invasion of Crimea and the beginning of the Ukrainian war at the latest proved that the Finnish line has been the right one. For a long time, our military system and the high will to defend the country have not attracted as much interest as it is now. The election of Trump as President of the United States further increases uncertainty and unpredictability. The report on Russia's changing role in Finland's neighbourhood published by the Finnish Institute of Foreign Policy in the summer gave rise to a wide-ranging debate. According to the report, Russia wants to be treated as a superpower and has long opposed the accession of new members to NATO, particularly in its neighbouring regions. This has been seen, among other things, as an increased military activity in the Baltic Sea and in the Arctic. Therefore, the policy of force has returned to the European security policy agenda, and military use of force against Finland or threat thereof cannot be ruled out. The primary goal of Finland's defence capability is to create a preemptive threshold for military use and its threat, as well as the ability to combat attacks on our country. Although the basic line of defence chosen by Finland has not had to be changed in a changed security situation, the situation requires: The Defence Forces are better prepared and able to respond to more surprising and diverse threats. Confident prevention, on the other hand, requires a reliable situational picture and control and a high level of preparedness for certain systems. Ensuring Finland’s internal and external security today requires new tools for the toolkit. There are many projects currently under way in the Defence Administration to safeguard our defence capabilities in a changed security environment. There is, for example, a legislative package on the provision and reception of international assistance, or on request. The legislation on intelligence is also being reformed. Intelligence can provide more ways to anticipate acts threatening Finland’s security. Mr President! We stated in the Budget Statement of the Committee on Defence that the basic solutions of the Finnish defence system will continue to work, but only with sufficient resources. The current situation, in which defence demands are constantly increasing but resources remain limited, is very challenging. During the last government term, approximately 10 per cent of the military budget was cut. This caused the material and educational deficits that the current government has undertaken to fill. Since this year, the budget for defence equipment procurement has been increased in line with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Study Group. This year, the increase will be EUR 500 million and will gradually increase by 2020. However, this does not compensate for the cuts that have already been made, and there is also great concern about the ability of the Defence Forces staff to cope, as was well highlighted in the previous debate today. At present, the size of the staff does not correspond to the number of tasks that the staff are to cope with. The operating expenditure savings of the Ministry of Defence will be increasing again next year, and the Competitiveness Pact will help to reduce the operating expenditure of the administrative sector. The defence report currently being prepared is therefore expected to provide answers to a number of major and longer-term questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u217	Mr President! Until a few years ago, so-called threats of tough or traditional security were underestimated and more talked about soft safety. It was felt that armed conflicts such as those that will be remembered in the 20th century would have ended up in history and that material defence would no longer be necessary, at least to the extent that there was a need to defend in the past. Unfortunately, however, history has proved to be different, traditional security threats have again become topical and the importance of traditional defence has once again become central and increasingly important. On the other hand, at the same time, there has also been a development in which it has become increasingly difficult to distinguish between internal and external security. These two issues, which were previously seen to be quite separate from each other, have been found to be increasingly intertwined and intertwined in the present world, and it is increasingly difficult to distinguish between the security threats they pose. One of the issues that raises this concern is the peculiarity of land trades, especially in the eastern part of Finland, also in the vicinity of key defence policy targets, which have been made by foreign operators and which do not seem to have necessarily any business or perhaps even leisure purpose. There seems to have been some sort of preparation for this at the Ministry of Justice, and then, after the concern of the Protection Police, there has also been an investigation on behalf of the Ministry of Defence. What is the Minister of Defence's view on the subject: is there a need for some kind of legislative restriction on land sales in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u218	Mr President! I would like to return to that idea, as the Minister is also present, that Finland's defence capability is no longer necessarily credible, and I would like him to respond a little. Of course, no one wants us to be in any kind of conflict — not inside or outside Finland’s borders — but the current security environment contains many uncertainties that suggest that the start of the conflict is not necessarily preventable or manageable for Finland, and that in any case we will have to be on standby more than for decades. The question is: what is the Minister of Defence's view of the fact that, even now, the total funding is being reduced again, what is the way in which our defence capabilities are actually brought to the level that external evaluators and observers feel is sufficient to protect the Finnish people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u219	There are questions here for the Minister, but let us make it clear that when we have Vikman, Hoskonen, Pelkonen and Rydman on the list, we will use these speeches and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u220	Mr President! Finland’s operating environment is now characterised by rapid change, unpredictability and uncertainty. The Defence Forces must be able to respond to various threats in a very diverse way. Securing the vital functions of society, resilience to crisis and security of supply and the importance of defence cooperation are emphasised. The geostrategic importance of the Baltic Sea region has increased, as is shown by the increased military activity in the Baltic Sea region. The primary objective of maintaining Finland’s defence capability is to prevent the use of military force and to threaten it. Strengthening defence cooperation in the international community is therefore necessary to safeguard capabilities, although Finland must continue to maintain its own sufficiently credible defence capability, and its credibility is, after all, always assessed by outsiders. I would like to remind you of the fact that the support of national defence organisations will be returned every year during parliamentary deliberations, and the Committee on Finance requires that this be taken into account in the 2018 budget. Voluntary defence activities are extremely important in maintaining the general will and skills of the country. For example, in the latest MTS opinion poll, the will to defend the country has fallen by 7 percentage points from the previous year, which is a worrying trend, and it needs to be closely monitored in which direction it will develop in this study and in other studies. It is also necessary to consider what I wish to do in defence of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u221	Mr President! As we all know, there are a lot of challenges in the D.O.D. section. The operating environment has changed enormously over the last few years. What was peaceful and peaceful for the Defence Forces five years ago may no longer be true today. Against this background, this budget for next year will take reasonable account of these existing threats and situations. It is clear that when we are living in a difficult economic time and debt should be stopped and those debts paid willingly, the situation is extremely difficult and challenging also for the section of the Ministry of Defence. A lot of material procurement is planned, and we know that the acquisition of fighters is being prepared all the time. It is a package of its own, a huge one, but now, for example, there has been a lot of public information about the new procurement of Army equipment, the latest of which was strongly publicising these gun acquisitions. I would have asked the Minister for Defence: when will decisions be taken on this matter? Secondly, with regard to this operational security, now that we have been able to restore the Defence Forces' refresher exercises to the level that it can be said that the reserve will receive good training and according to what has been done this year, for example, is it, Minister of Defence, that the level of refresher exercises at this time, which you feel is satisfactory? Thirdly, when we face huge challenges in terms of central government finances, how about in the future, do we have such precise plans that we can see, for example, the procurement of the Army so far forward that we can carry out that demanding task, despite the fact that there is going to be this significant acquisition of the Air Force?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u222	Mr President! I would like to ask you a few more questions about the pension reform. In the context of the pension reform, the retirement age of the soldiers also increased and its impact on the military trained leaders and experts of the wartime forces created a significant deficit, and this in turn undermines the performance of the wartime. Even during the preparation of the pension reform, the reserve compensation system was on the agenda. I would like to ask the Minister: is this still in the toolbox, or is there any other new information on how to fill this gap?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u223	Mr President! The Finnish line has been that we must be able to maintain our defence capability as an actor who offers a credible defence deterrent to those who might possibly have an interest in targeting some sort of military action in Finland. But, as Mr Vikman quite rightly said, we are not in a position to make a political decision on whether or not our defence capability is credible, but that assessment is carried out somewhere outside Finland. However, we must be able to give a signal that our will and ability to defend are high in a situation where something is threatening us. It should also be noted that Finland is always such a small country that we need sufficient international cooperation, international partners in defence, material procurement, possibly cooperation in the event of a crisis. But in any case, whether we were part of some larger alliance of defence or not, we must not and cannot neglect our own defence capacity. I have been pleased to believe that Finland has increased its international cooperation and activity on many fronts, whether it be the European Union, Nordic cooperation, bilateral cooperation with Sweden, Britain or the United States. But I would also like to ask the Minister of Defence: Sweden is naturally the most natural direction of cooperation in the Nordic direction, but does the Minister of Defence see that there might be wider benefits to be achieved through wider cooperation with other Nordic countries or perhaps joint Nordic activities, for example, with Norway, Denmark, perhaps to some extent also Iceland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u224	At this point, we will take the floor of the Minister. Minister Niinistö, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u225	Mr President! Thank you to all the aware Members of Parliament who are interested in defence. I heard good analyses of the undisputed change in our security environment — not least after the takeover of Crimea. In two speeches, Mr Laukkanen expressed concern about the credibility of Finland's defence. Mr Laukkanen said that our defence funds were insufficient. I fully agree with that. At the moment, in next year's budget, defence expenditure actually accounts for 1.3% of GDP. We know very well what the NATO recommendation is — it is 2% — and if you look at the historical average of Finland's defence budgets, then I think it moves around 1.5%. The purpose of the Defence Report is to examine these resource issues more closely. They are an integral part of this defence report. Three points need to be raised on these resource issues. The first is that the increase in the armaments budget, in line with the position of his representative, Mr Kanerva's working group, can be maintained. This increase was EUR 50 million for this year, EUR 80 million for next year, and will gradually increase to EUR 150 million by 2020, including index increases. Of course, it is desirable that this level of material procurement can be maintained in the 2020s. The second issue that arises in the defence report as a resource issue is preparedness. Ready to pay, it's not free. We have had to change the way the Defence Forces operate in many ways since the invasion of Crimea. And the third, of course, major resource issue is the Defence Forces' strategic major acquisitions, i.e. the Hornet follow-up project HX and the Navy Fleet 2020 project. But if we can solve these resource issues, I believe that Finland's credible defence is entirely guaranteed. Of course, it is up to other countries to assess whether our defence is credible, but in this respect I would be confident if these resource issues were resolved. It is absolutely essential that we have a functioning, independent Defence Forces and strong defence branches, the Earth, the Sea and the Air Force. Mr Pelkonen also expressed concern about the inadequacy of the appropriations and, admittedly, these operating expenditure savings, which also apply to the defence administration, are a challenge. Since autumn last year, the Defence Forces have implemented an internal savings plan to contribute to these spending limits cuts in operating expenditure. Administrative costs are cut and savings are sought from the premises. Congressman Rydman brought up the land deal. Some 100 of these have been identified in some vague land and real estate transactions in Finland, and there is currently a cross-administrative task force under the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, which is to make proposals and to examine whether legislative changes are needed at all. The work of this working group is due to be completed next March, and the work will be handed over to the Minister of Justice, who will then decide what to do about it. My own view is — and is strong — that legislative changes are needed. Mr Hoskonen asked about the acquisition of the Army — a legitimate question during this parliamentary term, because it is indeed the turn of the Army in this parliamentary term, when in the 2020s the major acquisition of the Navy and the Air Force will take place. Operational artillery is the key project that must be brought to its end in early next year. I myself attended the event to follow the shootings in Rovajärvi, and one significant option is the South Korean telacan K9 Thunder, used, but it is currently being discussed and negotiated for the best price for Finland. Mr Hoskonen also asked about the reserve refresher training level. I think it is satisfactory. It could be better, and I am constantly encouraging the Defence Forces to go beyond these goals, and it is good news for this year that when the target was 18,000 refresher exercises, it seems that we will reach the level of about 19,000 this year. Congressman Pelkonen asked about the military pension situation. We are still working on this. No solution has yet been found.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u226	And then we'll continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u227	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister how he feels about extending invitations to women. In other words, the Coalition women have suggested extending the invitations to women, as reaching the entire age group in the invitations would increase interest in military service and increase the number of well-motivated garrisonmen. Of course, women have the ability to learn the skills of a military officer as well as men. It would be important to extend invitations to women so that we can have the best capabilities of the age groups and, on the other hand, it would also be a step in a more equal direction for women to receive timely information on the possibility of voluntary military service. Interestingly, women in military service do better than average in the ministry and are well motivated. About 60% of them have completed leadership training. I would also like to make it clear that I would continue to remain a volunteer in the service of women, because there is currently no need for compulsory service for the entire age group from the point of view of the Defence Forces, although the objective of the Defence Forces is to get more women into voluntary service. The first step towards extending invitations to women could be to send at least a letter of invitation to all women at national level, because the regional experiments of the letter of invitation to women have produced very good results, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u228	Mr President! It is a pity that the Minister has just had to leave, and I would have thanked him for his very clear answer. There was a very analytical and well thought out answer, which shows that he is very close to these things and is well in control of them. I would have asked about that border security: when Russia, our neighbour, is constantly increasing its preparedness on our border, and Finland will reduce its own capability and this trend will also be extremely worrying. We put forward additional funds for border security here, but it was then, handsomely, by the government parties, that they fell, although security should be something that goes beyond these government-oppositional arrangements, but this is what happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u229	Mr President! Finland is a small country with scarce resources to defend the country. Arms procurement must be done with great caution and with good reason. We simply cannot afford to invest in error. I would have asked the Minister if he was still here, in the debate I raised earlier today, about the fleet 2020 project, in which the order criteria for four warships have not been consulted, at least in the Administrative and Security Section, which is responsible for these procurements on the budget side. Of course, these arguments have certainly been discussed in the Committee on Defence, and I would have liked to hear something about that too. Not that the Fleet 2020 project is not justified, but the Navy needs new equipment. But I myself wonder why these slow-moving, hard-to-hidden, nearly 100-metre-long vessels should be acquired in the Baltic Sea, because they are such mobile or stationary almost targets that are easy to paint and destroy, for example, with the Russian Bastion battle system I mentioned during the day. In that sense, have these alternatives been discussed, such as these torpedoes or the purchase of other seagoing vessels operating in guerrilla warfare? After all, we have made mistakes in Parliament in relation to the Defence Forces in the past. Maybe it was the most famous one back in the '30s when armored ships and submarines were acquired and half of the military funds went there. Then, after all, these later purchases of errors were about to be made in the late 1990s, when General Hägglund wanted to get battle helicopters instead of tanks, but the Defence Committee 97 shot down those projects. Then this latest investment in error was about to happen. Here I would like to send the message that it would be good for Parliament to hear whether these targeting of the Fleet 2020 project has now been carefully considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u230	Mr President! It is regrettable that the Minister apparently came up with an obstacle and had to leave. — I would have broadened the scope of this Nordic dimension as far as defence is concerned. If we look back on history, then the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, when Finland has become involved and lived in the Cold War era, were explicitly an arena where discretion towards Finland's difficult foreign and security policy position was avoided until the very last time from discussing foreign and security policy issues, but today, if you follow the Nordic Council's meetings, there are few issues that are discussed there as much as security. Of course, it partly reflects the rather negative, unfortunate foreign and security policy situation in the Baltic Sea, but on the other hand I see that it is valuable that Finland has a wide range of international arenas that can also bring out our own specific challenges, even though we are not currently a militarily united country. I would also like to have heard the views of the Minister of Defence on the issue of anti-personnel mines. After all, under the Ottawa Convention we are giving up anti-personnel mines, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether it would be possible, in this difficult situation at least, to refrain from the destruction of anti-personnel mines, that even if we did not resign from the Ottawa Convention, we would, at least in an uncertain security policy situation, avoid destroying ourselves an arsenal which, with its long external borders, is quite cost-effective and effective for a country such as Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u231	Mr President! In fact, I would have raised this very question, which Mr Vikman raised in his previous speech in relation to women's compulsory military service. But thanks to Mr Vikman for his extremely good and important speech — it is good that this issue is being discussed in this Chamber. I myself had the honour of taking a national defence course, in fact, just last month, and I must say that this course is certainly of real value to everyone, especially everyone in this Chamber, and I would recommend it if it has not yet taken place. But what was actually concrete in there was this, how different the world is at the moment and how many ways we need to reflect on the security of our country. The thing that particularly stuck in mind was how much different influence from the outside has increased. We may think a lot about this kind of information war through the fact that online different fake sites spread false information, fuel fears among Finns, reduce people's confidence in our authorities and politicians and the state. But in addition to that, I would actually have liked to have heard the views of the Minister of Defence in relation to this cybersecurity vote. When we discussed the budget of the Ministry of Justice here, there was a fairly high-quality and good debate on electronic voting, on which the government has directed, and these various concerns have been raised, for example, in connection with the presidential elections in the United States and there with the desire of external parties to influence the results of the votes. I would have liked to know if there has been a similar discussion in Finland at the time these decisions on electronic voting have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u232	Mr President! It is good that Finland is aware of these real threats to our defences and the integrity of the country in general. For example, we have a decision made in April 2016 according to which the domestic defence equipment industry and its essential functions are strongly maintained in this country, and this is such a wise line decision because, for example, for equipment and maintenance activities and for the manufacture of certain equipment, the country must be able to be self-sufficient. And as far as these anti-personnel mines, which were removed at the time by the Ottawa Convention — I thought it was a wrong decision at the time — were, of course, committed to making the decision, which was to be made when the name was on paper — they have now been found to be almost extremely difficult to replace under the circumstances in which we are now living. It is important now to make sure that we have the equipment of the Army so that we can maintain its defence capability. I read in a newspaper a few days ago that: The Defence Forces have some innovation project going on to replace these destroyed anti-personnel mines with some new domestic system — there is no precise information about what this system is, but I read that someone like this is being developed. What is important, however, is that the defence spirit in this country remains and is at a very high level. And the only way to maintain this people's strong will to defend themselves is to keep the general military service strong, to train our reserves well and to provide this reserve with the good equipment that it can do its work at the level required for today's time. It is not our fault that the world has become what it is. We need to follow the great wisdom expressed by Urho Kaleva Kekkonen in his time, that we should get friends close and enemies as far away as possible — because Finland has done well before — and, above all, we should take careful care of our defence capability in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u233	Mr President! It has been wonderful to see that the Greens have taken on board the agenda of reforming military service and considering it. However, I find it extremely worrying that, in the long term, the Greens want to make compulsory military service voluntary for all Finns. It would probably mean that the current reserve would be reduced to perhaps a third of the present one with this green model. If anything, it would endanger Finland's regional defence. At the same time as you claim to be a party of the whole country, you are proposing a model in which, under no circumstances, the whole country would be able to defend itself but would actually have to focus on large cities and other strategic targets. These considerations should, of course, take very careful account of the fact that the current military service has, however, been a cost-effective and effective way of guaranteeing and ensuring the defence of the entire country. I do find this a worrying trend when you propose a completely voluntary model of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u234	Mr President! The work done is once again producing results. The Arms Directive, which restricts the possession of weapons, has become a negotiated solution in the EU. The result is in line with Finland’s objectives, as it secures the training of reservists as part of voluntary national defence work. In the past, the large committee that I represent unanimously took the position of safeguarding and defending Finland's national defence solution, and now the EU really agreed to this view of Finland. Next, of course, we will have to put our national arms legislation in order. I must say that the original proposal for a directive by the EU Commission would indeed have put Finland's present defence capacity at risk in a very tangible way and significantly undermined the credibility of our defence capabilities, too, and had the wrong effect on our defence solution, which is, in accordance with this Treaty, not to be affected by the EU Commission. In addition, the original presentation would have had a number of adverse effects on the hobby activities of Finnish hunters, gun collectors and sports shooters. As has been said, the opinion was unanimous in the large committee. I know, and I can say that in all the parliamentary groups this matter was addressed with good energy both here in Parliament and in the European Parliament, and then also the negotiators of our Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs did an excellent job. For once, this is an example of the fact that when one thought of Finland starting to drive something in the EU and getting partners from other countries to understand our point of view, results can be obtained. And when the Finns generally say 'where the EU, there the problem', for once, 'where the EU, there will be a solution'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u235	Mr President! After all, the old truth is that Finland cannot do anything about geography. We are a small nation with long borders to defend, and it always presents certain challenges that we have to solve time and again in such a way that we can also demonstrate to the outside world that our defence is credible. There are encouraging examples in our history that, even in difficult situations, including those extreme military situations, we have done well despite all these challenges. But I suppose in this context too it must be said that success in the past is not an automatic guarantee of the future, but that we must always, generation after generation, redeem our place in the world and ensure that our defence capacity continues to be credible. Of course, we need sufficient resources to do this, and when these resources are scarce in any case, we must of course be as effective as possible within the framework of their scarce resources, but at the same time we also need a strong will to defend the country. In the case of Finland, when our geography is what it is and there are as many of us as it happens to be, this is particularly important because, although I am one of those who would like to see more significant international cooperation for Finland, as regards defence, material procurement, perhaps some commitments for crises, whether Finland is militarily united or non-aligned, in my view, we cannot, under any circumstances, abandon a general military obligation such as the present one, which, in these geographical and demographic circumstances, is practically the only way to ensure the credibility of our defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u236	At this stage, I would like to say that there are representatives of Tanus, Niinistö, Louhelainen and Vikman on the list of speakers. This section will then be suspended and, if necessary, the debate will continue after the other sections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u237	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his clear answers and for his very firm approach. I believe that the Defence Forces, the general military service, are very important and must continue to be maintained, as well as a voluntary service for girls, women. But in addition to this, I have already called for some kind of more effective civic education: skills for all of us citizens, perhaps I would say the skills that we once knew better, which might be needed in special situations. In a way, I would like to see this type of more effective civic education for special situations planned and implemented in the future. From within and outside the borders of the country, from both sides, those threats can easily arise. In the future, hopefully they will be prevented and kept alive in Finland. In the Committee on the Future, where I have been sitting, these issues have also been discussed a great deal. And, as Mr Kari said, these threats can indeed come at the same time from very many sides, not just from outside borders and within borders, but from areas such as health care. Infectious diseases, animal diseases, can be deliberately introduced, certain threats to the environment, which in a way can be used as attack methods. They are not only threats from land or air in a certain way or through cyber threats on the Internet, but also threats to health, medical treatment, animal diseases and environmental disasters that can be used. And it is likely that if such threats come, then many fairways are used at the same time, that is, preparation really is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u238	Mr President! The Minister has already left, but I will leave one important point in the minutes and for those present, which is relevant to Finland's defence, or at least should be assessed from that point of view. The worsening security situation in the Baltic Sea has also been reflected in the reaction of Sweden and many other countries, Estonia, to Nord Stream 2's plans to extend their gas pipelines at the bottom of the Baltic Sea from Russia to Germany. Only two days ago it became known that, on the basis of a recommendation from the Swedish Government, the municipalities in Karlshamn and Gotland in Sweden said 'no' to the use of Swedish ports in connection with this project. Their reasons were defence policy interests, that is to say, they said out loud that there was at least some connection between the use of these ports and the fact that it would have jeopardised their defence policy security if this company, which has Russian Gazprom as a major owner, had rented these ports and had thereby been able to install more gas pipelines on the bottom of the Baltic Sea. In Finland, this has traditionally only been addressed as an environmental and economic issue, but it is clear that this has a foreign policy dimension, but it is unclear to what extent this has a defence and security policy dimension. I think it would be important for Parliament to hold a wide-ranging debate on this. What you can say is clear is that Russia is using this as an instrument to increase its influence on Ukraine and Eastern Europe, because the asset of countries such as Ukraine and Poland in relation to Russia has been the gas pipeline that goes through their countries to Germany and Europe at the moment. If the Nord Stream pipeline were to be extended, Russia would then be able to put even more pressure on Ukraine to make the decisions it wants, and this too should be identified. But also whether he has direct access to the Finnish defence
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u239	Mr President! Today, Parliament has been busy discussing the development of EU defence cooperation, which was approved by the European Council yesterday. The Commission has come up with a plan for action to develop defence cooperation, where the most important initiatives are the creation of a common defence research fund and the development of the internal market for the defence industry. In addition to these, the ideas adopted yesterday concern the development of defence funding, the development of a common defence policy, the development of crisis management capacity, the Joint Operations Centre, the improvement of the availability of the EU rapid reaction force. Concrete proposals on these are expected from the beginning of next year. Mr President! Finland's large committee, the EU Committee, is one of the best informed committees in Europe from the Government. So I dare say with more than five years of experience in this committee. The great committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs will be meeting next Tuesday, and I believe that the Prime Minister will give us fresh greetings from the European Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u240	Mr President! It is good to remember that Finland is prepared for all imaginable threats, precisely because they would never be realised. In other words, when we want to live in peace, the best guarantee of peace for Finland is to be prepared to defend with such credibility that no one should threaten Finland armedly. In this unstable international environment, it should be noted that whether Finland is allied or non-aligned, so general military service and its need will not go away. There is also very strong support for general military duty in Finland, which was most recently shown in the MTS study published a couple of weeks ago. On the other hand, in addition to general military service, the will to defend and keep it high is very important to our defence capability, and that would be a good task for all of us to act to promote the will to defend the country when Finland turns 100. The will to defend the country has traditionally been high in Finland, but in a changing world it will certainly face new challenges, and we do not want to see in Finland the kind of defence will readings that are measured in many Central European countries, for example. It is particularly important to draw attention to young citizens and their will to defend the country, which at the same time strengthens citizens' capacity to cope with exceptional circumstances and in all ways contribute to the safety of 100-year-old Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u241	The fifth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u242	Madam President! The proposal proposes to introduce a new law on basic income testing and to amend the Income Tax Act and the Advance Heritage Act. The basic income test would be carried out in 2017 and 2018, and for those selected for the experiment, the Social Insurance Institution would pay EUR 560 per month of basic income during the experiment. The basic income would be tax-free income for the recipient and would not be reduced by the other income of the beneficiary of the basic income. In principle, I am in favour of carrying out a basic income test and of making social protection more inclusive and more work-friendly, as well as cutting red tape and simplifying the benefit system. However, these objectives cannot be achieved by the model presented here. The basic income test of the Sipilä government would include 2000 randomly selected unemployed people and would cost the state EUR 20 million. A broadly implemented unrealistic model would create a deficit of EUR 11 billion. In view of the starting position, I believe that the model cannot properly assess the employment impact of basic income, nor can it be properly described as a basic income test. The model is also problematic because it does not break down incentives and would lead to high equal rates of taxation, which in turn would destabilise the purchasing power of employees. Even on the basis of the study carried out, the model presented cannot be considered as the most feasible on the basis of the overall assessment. The experiment now being presented was also critical of a number of opinions that came to the committee. The experts consulted did not support the proposed basic income test model. For example, the expert reports highlighted problems arising from the trial design, the nature and size of the target group, the urgent timetable and the budget. However, as the main comment, I would like to raise the point of view that there is likely to be little generalising evaluation data on the cost implications of the introduction of basic income, actual behavioural effects and the development of the social security system. The problem was also raised by the fact that the chosen model is not realistically transferable to the level of the population as a whole and that the proposed experiment can provide unrealistic results that can guide the debate on the future of the Finnish social security system in the wrong direction. The experiment was thus found to leave open the question of whether the basic result would be a realistic alternative to remedy the current social security difficulties and what kind of basic income tax mix could even theoretically be feasible. I therefore believe that the message from the expert opinions clearly shows that the experiment that is being proposed does not identify the issues or provide answers to the questions that are necessary for the wider implementation of the basic income. So why carry out a test which can already be determined by the starting position that the practical benefit of the experiment is small and that it is not even theoretically able to meet the objectives set? I therefore propose that the basic income test model proposed by the government be rejected and that the government speeds up the implementation of the national income register so that the basic income test can be carried out in such a way as to include more advanced incentive traps, i.e. the model of negative tax revenue and the model of the Christian Democrats' encouraging basic security. And this proposal to transfer the basic income experiment is also included in the Christian Democrats' alternative budget. On this basis, I propose that this bill be rejected, and I also make a proposal for a different opinion as follows: "The government requires that the national income register be completed quickly and that the basic income test be carried out at a time when the models of negative income tax and incentive basic security can be included in the experiment."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u243	Madam President! I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Tanus and also support the proposal for a statement by dissenting opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u244	Madam President! The current social security system in Finland consists of a number of parallel benefits. As a result of the need-tested approach to them, the social security system may cause both financial and bureaucratic incentives for the beneficiary to receive part-time or short-term work. This proposal proposes a law on basic income testing. Finland's social security legislation does not provide for basic income, and an experiment such as the one proposed has not been carried out in the past. The experiment will take place in 2017 and 2018. It is linked to key projects in the Government's health and well-being services, which emphasise customer orientation. The primary objective of the experiment relates to employment and is used to answer the question of how many people have a basic income free of charge or tax to increase or reduce employment. It is intended to examine whether the employment rate can be clearly increased and the incentive traps associated with the reception of work reduced and unemployment periods reduced. Mr President! The experiment means that basic income is not immediately paid to the entire population. A group of 2000 people will be selected from the target group by randomisation, to which Kela will pay a basic basic income of EUR 560, free of charge and tax, corresponding to the net amount of labour market support. The target group is Kela's unemployment benefits, i.e. those receiving labour market support or basic daily allowance, subject to certain restrictions. Persons on old-age pension or, for example, students whose primary objective is to complete a degree cannot take part in the experiment. A group of peers from the target group shall be selected by means of a corresponding sample, which shall not receive basic income and to which the target group shall be compared. Basic income relieves the person selected for the experiment from the obligations of the unemployed, such as seeking employment. If he does not remain a customer of the Employment Administration, he is not in employment policy services and is not provided with services or employment. On the other hand, even in this case, he will not be penalised by the refusal of an unemployed person to take the job or measure he has been offered. Thus, the benefit is not interrupted or cut as the unemployment benefit is suspended or cut as a result of infringements. The income available to individuals participating in the experiment will increase if they are employed during the basic income experiment, because basic income is paid throughout the experiment and earned income does not cut its amount as in current unemployment benefit benefits. Mr President! During the committee debate, I stressed the importance of informing the people involved in the experiment so that their financial situation would not deteriorate. The committee's report therefore states that it is essential that those involved in the experiment be clearly informed of the possible impact of the basic income on the social security of those involved in the experiment. It is particularly important to provide information on the impact on income support. The target group currently selected for the basic income test is significantly overlapping with the income support applicants and beneficiaries. The most common reason for applying for income support is unemployment and the related supplementation of basic security due mainly to housing costs. As indicated, the amount of income support may be reduced if the person does not apply for employment or fulfils the obligations of the applicant. Those involved in the experiment should therefore be aware of their rights but also of their obligations. Mr President! The timetable and the budget for the experiment are limited and have also received criticism. However, it is positive that such an experiment has now been launched.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u245	Mr President! This basic income experiment, which is part of the government's top project, is indeed very historic. It has also attracted international media interest and also very strong political support: from the political spectrum to the edge of the spectrum there has been great encouragement and interest in this basic income experiment. It is quite clear that in some way our social security system must be able to be modified. This experiment is not perfect, the government has recognised it, but it is historic on the scale in which it is being done, and it provides a huge amount of new information on how we could develop our social security system and, above all, how we could improve people's employment. Mr President! Although this project has also received criticism, it has also received very strong and expert supporters. A huge amount of work has been spent on this by top scientists and experts from THL, Kela, and I think this is going to continue the course that is in fact inherited from the previous government. At the time, the centre also contributed to supporting, for example, the EUR 300 protection component, which was a very important achievement for people to be better able to combine part-time work and part-time employment. It is estimated that, in total, as much as EUR 10 billion would be unworked in Finland, which is part-time, seasonal, seasonal work. If we could at least get some of this done, that would be a huge increase in our employment, and then government indebtedness would certainly be in quite different numbers. The basic income experiment is historic, and I thank the government for finally achieving it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u246	Madam President! The idea of a basic income experiment is in itself very good and worthy of support, but, as has been pointed out here, this implementation is very inadequate and is therefore likely to be rather poor. Perhaps instead of a basic income test, we could talk more about labour market testing here. That is why I believe that the experiment should have involved a wider range of people, students and temporary workers, that we could have talked about this basic income experiment. But I would like to draw attention to two points that have also been raised here in the debate: Firstly, these obligations of the recipient of basic income and possible sanctions. Many who feel that they have now come within the sphere of this basic income perhaps think that they do not have to be in the sphere of these sanctions and active job search, but assume that they will receive this basic income automatically. And that is how it is during this period of basic income, but it may come as a surprise to many that, after this, if they have neglected these and the basic income ends, sanctions and fines may come upon them unexpectedly. In other words, perhaps we should have been even more familiar with this matter. Another comment on this experimental group, which is this 2000 people. However, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities also drew attention to the fact that this is about to fall to about 1200, because families with children are confined to this, because this basic income is so disadvantageous in relation to unemployment benefit without an increase in children. However, I think it is in principle a good idea to develop our social security system in the direction that it prevents people's poverty but nevertheless encourages work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u247	Madam President! This basic income experiment is a matter that has been discussed for a long time, and according to the government programme it is now being tried out. I am in favour of an experiment as such, but the idea of paying some basic income to all people on the basis that, for example, you could use it for "being", as someone has used this term, is something that I absolutely do not support. There is a lot of unworked work in Finland, and many of these jobs are related, for example, to helping a neighbor, sick, parents, and to such caring work in general. There's a lot of work to do. Then, if you go into a broader basic income model, it will easily lead to the creation of a group that can be very significant in size, which then does not taste much of the work. I hope that such a system will never be implemented, because I do not think that there should be a benefit free of charge. Elli, the future Executive Director of the Social Insurance Institution Aaltonen has well said that he wonders why he has to pay for his stay. I've been wondering the same thing myself. In my opinion, work needs to be done, paid for it and paid for it. It keeps this society running, and precisely so that every working person knows his or her own dignity through his or her work. The workplace creates those important social relationships and also creates the atmosphere for people that 'I am useful in this society', and so they can contribute to the development and improvement of their own environment. That is why I am not in favour of basic income, but let the experiment and the experience of it lead to a final decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u248	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen's words and phrases are easy to underline and agree fully with. Mr Nurminen also made good points about the weaknesses of this experiment, and also the representative. My corner when I say that this is an experiment of historical and international interest. That is indeed what it is, and indeed it is that a huge amount of work, the work of various experts and representatives of various organisations, has been spent on this. However, as has been said, those in committee who were consulted took a very critical view of this, at least in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where I have been sitting much in recent weeks. Yes, the experts who were heard there did not only take a very critical view, but said straight away that they were in no way in favour of this experiment, because it does not get out of the things that are supposed to come out of it. After all, the Christian Democrats have in the past presented the best model of basic safety that is to encourage the dismantling of incentive traps. That is the application of the British experiment and its expanded universal credit model. In other words, the model actually promotes employment because it reconciles social security and pay and makes it encouraging to accept work. The model defuses delays in payments and makes it worthwhile to accept even low-paid work. The model reconciles taxation, social security, wages and other income in real time in the national income register. In other words, we still hope that this basic income test will be postponed so that the national income register can be completed and this model can be introduced and tested.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u249	Madam President! It is quite true that there are still a number of problems in Finland with regard to the fact that, when you look at the interface between low-wage labour and social security, it is far from always worthwhile to accept work. There is a lot of work to be done here, and I think that the government has put forward a number of proposals which will somewhat dismantle this problem, but there will certainly still be an incentive trap, and in that sense the reform of social security is in order. However, the concept of basic income is that it sounds attractive and that it would almost solve all the problems, but as in the world in general, if someone sounds too good to be true, often it is that it is not really true. This also applies to the basic income. If we wanted to make the basic result genuinely supportive — that it would actually encourage us to take up jobs — it should be of such a low size that it would not in practice be sufficient to meet the needs that we could reasonably expect certain people to need in society. Similarly, if it were made so comprehensive and so large that no further discretionary support in society would be needed, this would lead to a system becoming very expensive and no longer actually encouraging work. And even if we have a statistician who could possibly develop a perfect basic income model that would be so encouraging and comprehensive that it would really solve all the incentive problems and simplify social security, I cannot believe for a moment that politicians will not be able to ruin it in the next few moments, because then there would be elections and there would still be a debate, that our party would raise the basic income at least so much, yeah, but our party would raise much more. After that, even that brilliant system of social populism typical of us politicians would probably be able to completely destroy it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u250	Mr President! As has been pointed out here, this proposal is also being criticised, and I am happy to agree with Mrs Hoskonen that work should always be a priority for all of us. However, this experiment is now starting, and today Olli Kangas, the leader of Kela's research team, has said that next year the model for the experiment will have to be seen as a first step towards a series of experiments to test different types of basic income solutions. I myself have been raised at home that every day something significant, that is, work, be it domestic work or anything else, should be done. By the way, my 93-year-old father, when he can no longer stand, plans to put a leaf blower on the roller and do such remarkable work in his own yard. Mr President! I am glad that, since the start of the study of this basic income experiment, the members of the research group, and also many representatives of Parliament, have been interested in contacts from the Nordic countries, Europe, Canada, the USA, Belarus, Mexico, Taiwan, Japan and even Australia, so this has raised a positive Finnish brand in the world. Finland has once again been seen as an innovative country that dares to try different things. I am glad that Finland has come to the map on this too, but I am sure that this basic income experiment will require much further clarification to show whether it will succeed. I myself am not prepared to do that with these arguments and these explanations, but there are no things that can be made forward if they are not tried and looked at. If this experiment does not produce the results that have been set for it, then different alternatives will be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u251	Madam President! We must support this government's experimental culture to the extent that the experiment means looking for something on the basis of something or for it. The whole idea of this basic income experiment has not been that it proves that basic income is a functional model and a response to the combination of all social benefits into one support. The purpose of this experiment is to get information on how in practice this kind of possible basic income or basic support could work. In that sense, I encourage and encourage that good or bad results can be obtained from this, not as an obstacle to this experiment, but as a result, the government has taken a bold test and has obtained a result, whether good or bad to learn from this, and only then are we going to make the right decisions. Although this could have been done a little later, I am pleased that it is being done right now and that the results will soon be obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u252	Mr President! A few words on consideration of social security. In my opinion, 'why pay for being' is a really bad question, firstly because our Constitution already obliges us to provide a certain minimum income in one form or another as income support, which is free of charge, which does not depend on how you meet certain conditions. But, above all, it is a bad question because it assumes, in some way, that it is simply out of the formal world of work. This is an argument that is not true. We know that in households and organisations alone, even in today's Finland, 60% of the value of GDP is generated by work that is not official work. This is just the way people hang out. We also know that the value of the official economy is increasingly generated by cultural processes that are not traceable to paid or entrepreneurial work. This value is also what is done there when so to speak. It is good to remember that in almost all countries at almost all times throughout human history, most of the population has been living there outside official working life, and this is also the case in modern Finland. It does not mean that these people are somehow useless, meaningless for society or that they do not have a livelihood like others. These people are involved in this society. Most of them are able to contribute to this society and do their best to improve conditions for themselves and their loved ones on the terms they have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u253	Mr President! Perhaps it is worth recalling the starting point for this experiment: because we currently have not only incentive traps but also bureaucratic traps in our social security system in our society. It is a very complex system, and at the same time we know that the current situation has already led to the fact that it does not always make sense to accept work, for example, even if there is certainly work. It must also be accompanied by the fact that the nature of the work has, of course, changed. As I said in my previous speech, there is a lot of part-time work, there is a lot of seasonal work. There may also be a willingness to want to work only occasionally along with the rest of life. However, all of this should be possible in our system as well. In a way, one might think that the EUR 300 protection component, which is now and has produced very positive results, is also a certain step in the direction of a basic income. The protective part should probably be larger, but it would be an excessively expensive solution and, of course, it would not solve the whole core of the incentive and bureaucracy traps. We do not yet know how this is going to work, because such larger-scale experiments have hardly been carried out anywhere. It must be remembered that the basic government papers that exist in this government proposal also talk about different models. One way has now been chosen to carry out this experiment and see what results it will deliver. The main question is whether this basic income experiment will contribute to employment. Why aren't the students involved? Because students have to complete a degree and the employment issue is the most important thing here. I believe that, as a result, we will see a better employment situation in Finland in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u254	Madam President! Representative My corner rightly pointed out the fact that the government has actually made a number of reforms which are likely to lead to the fact that even low-paid work is profitable even if it had previously been dependent on various financial support. And as such, I think it is valuable that this government has had the courage to carry out various experiments, tests on whether or not we can get some social benefit out of testing a particular model, and in a way this is in the series. Although it must be said in itself that the criticism that has been made in terms of the relevance of this basic income experiment and its own research or question-making is quite relevant. Without prejudice to this kind of experiment, what is being done in the form of this experiment will not produce any particularly relevant result as to whether some kind of basic income would be worth experimenting or expanding beyond this experiment. But as such, I would be happy to see a situation in which there is a world where a comprehensive basic income experiment is actually being carried out. This is by no means the experiment that is being carried out at the moment. This is far too small a scale and perhaps a little wrong. But if there were ever a real test of a large-scale basic income in any part of the world, I believe that the experiment would fail completely for the reasons I mentioned in the previous speech, and it might reduce the basic income squabble that is so much present in the social debate. I very much hope that this kind of basic income experiment, which I described here, would not be carried out in Finland, but somewhere else, so that we could then be horrifying from the outside. This is not the kind of treatment I would like for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u255	Madam President! The representative, Mr Kontula, also raised an important point of view on the wide range of important forms of participation in society. I myself have said many times that the fact is that there is work for everyone in Finland, really for every citizen, for everyone, there is work in Finland. Well, the difference is, is there anyone who pays for it? But I would see that active activity is certainly a benefit to everyone. What activity for whom it means is different, but there are many different kinds of activities that benefit the people around us and society in many ways. I think that an excellent example was here earlier, when a representative told his father that a leaf blower could be attached to a wheelchair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u258	Madam President! I did not mean any harm — I did not think of a better term for what it could have been, but I meant that society should not, in my opinion, create a system that allows us to go over a bar as low as ever. Unfortunately, there is such a phenomenon in our society. Not only do we have it in Finland, it is common in Europe and also in other countries. In other words, I do not think that this system should be created knowingly. For example, we have a lot of people at the moment who genuinely want to work, but they are not available. After all, we are now developing unemployment benefit in the direction, among other things, that the pot that the state pays for unemployment benefit can be used for various activation measures. We need to move in this direction, and precisely so that the state assumes responsibility, that people are offered something useful to do. I claim that the social environment that a person gets from work reduces his mental difficulties, helps him to socialize, creates those important relationships that no one can manage without. In other words, I think that this experiment is good and I warmly support it, but I do not support the system itself, which would create a system that would result in a wage payment where there is no need to do anything in return. There's a lot of unworked work to be done. The only question is whether we want this opportunity to be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u259	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u260	Madam President! The purpose of this law is, in particular, to reduce the level of professional protection and to punish the non-receiving of work. Unemployment for many, especially for the long-term unemployed, is not his own choice — not even if he sends 200 applications and is not answered because he happens to be over 50 years old. Now, especially these long-term unemployed people are being pushed to work that is not available and then punished. I do not consider it acceptable in any way. Then I consider this reduction in professional protection to be a very poor way of dealing with unemployment in such a way that you have to take up work that does not correspond to your own profession, even after three months of unemployment and, in particular, to accept it at a price level that, if you have had a job of between EUR 3000 and EUR 4400 yourself, then you will then have to take a job equivalent to a minimum wage that does not correspond to your own professionalism and give up your own earned unemployment benefit for which you have paid the membership fee, for example, for decades. That's why I can't support this bill. When this was in the actual debate here, I did not have the opportunity to participate in it, but I would just like to say that such measures are not going to make Finland rise, and in this way unemployment will not be broken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u261	Mr President! For the reasons which I raised earlier in the debate: Mr Laukkanen has also made an excellent opening, and I propose that all the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u262	Mr President! I myself have raised these shortcomings, which have already arisen here: the extension of the obligation to take up work, particularly in the case of low-paid full-time jobs. By eliminating the comparison between costs and incomes, it may create unreasonable situations because train journeys and others have accelerated, which means that even a very long-term unemployed person may go for a job. The second is obligations outside the employment plan, which are also extended here. I do not want to impose obligations specifically on the unemployed in this situation, where there are infinitely few jobs. Many unemployed people are looking for and want to find work, so I do not believe in these goals of the government proposal. That is why I support Mr Kontula's proposal to reject the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u263	Madam President! No one expects that this bill will create new jobs in Finland. After all, the Government itself takes many different measures, which are intended specifically to make creating new jobs and new business in Finland more profitable, and this is not part of the proposals. On the other hand, this is explicitly one of the proposals aimed at lowering the threshold for receiving work, on the other hand, to address the fact that we have sufficient instruments to deal with those who may have been sidetracked quite a bit by long unemployment in the labour market. This is precisely the kind of reform that needs to be done, that we do not have the friction that, for example, means that people are going into longer unemployment, precisely because of the high expectations that work in their own field will soon be on the way. In my opinion, it is reasonable and quite reasonable also to require an unemployed job seeker to be able to receive a job which does not necessarily fully correspond to his training but which, in some way, keeps him away from working life. We have a lot of sad cases through the fact that there have been people who have thought their labour market status better than it actually is and have therefore perhaps been waiting for the job in their own sector which may not be in the end. However, there are significant negative social consequences. In any case, it is better to be at work at all than to be completely out of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u264	Madam President! Now that I happen to be from that Espoo, where 37 per cent of the long-term unemployed and the unemployed are more or less highly educated, I am surprised that such a performance is already at the starting point, starting from the fact that we will then have this highly educated people do these 65,000 jobs that are out there, and then at a pay level that is completely contrary to their entire dream of life for which they have gone to school, they have taken their loans. I am simply asking in practical terms what kind of a person with a moderate middle-class income will then be responsible, among other things, for his loan obligations and other things, when you have housing and others bought, with the new income that this proposal is now forcing them to do. What I wonder even more is how the coalition is going to enforce such a law. Now we've lost little Antero.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u265	Mr President! Mr Rydman said that, in any case, it would be better to work at something than outside the labour market. This proposal enables, among other things, a person living in Toijala to be required to work in the capital region for a monthly salary of EUR 1000, so that if everything goes very badly, except that he or she has to apply for income support in addition to full-time employment, he or she will be left in the hands of the entire operation after rent and electricity at EUR 80 per month. So by working full - time after rent and electricity you get 80 euros a month for phone bills, local travels, clothing, food, everything a person needs to live for a month. In my opinion, in a situation like this, it is better for a person to refuse to accept that work, even if he then receives a sanction and receives income support, but then at least he gets the EUR 485 per month, which, at least, is many times as much as this government proposal offers to the person who has received the job who has not understood to refuse. If this person still lives in Toijala and then has a child, then the day of the child’s kindergarten is 12 hours in this case. According to all experts in the field of parenting, a reasonable day in kindergarten for a small child is a few hours. Even eight hours is a very long time for a small child. If you're a very small child, that 12 hours is the whole waking hour. At least I wouldn't go to work on these terms and I wouldn't recommend it to my worst enemy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u266	Madam President! Mr Kontula spoke my own thoughts out loud, or what I was thinking about here. Apart from having to accept low-paid work, I would really add that there is a limit of 80 kilometres that it may be that there is a job at a distance from which the pay is quite low. If you really think about the little child who goes to that day care center early and picks up late, and whether it is a mother or a father whose working day will then continue with the shopping, cooking, homekeeping, all that, you can only think about how long that rumba family will last. In that sense, even though the three-month professional protection has been put into it and I think it might be all right and useful to do a different kind of work for a while, the way in which this government proposal has been built and the kind of flaws that have been left — yes, there are so many flaws that, in the name of humanity, these cannot be supported. In that sense, another proposal from the government which I would see is that there may have been such positive slops in itself, when this has started to be done, but there have been so many weaving errors, so many flaws that there should be a review of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u267	Madam President! Representative Laukkanen there described an educated Espoan who has built his own dream for himself. Of course, we are doing a pretty bad education policy if we train people in areas where they may not have a long-term chance of getting jobs in their own field. But I strongly disagree that if a person had a high education for himself, it would mean some subjective right to refuse something a little less fine. It cannot be for our society that if you are smart and succeed in obtaining a degree, then then it is so fine that you have a subjective right to enjoy the support of society and do not have to do work that does not belong to your own fancy world view. Mr Laukkanen also wondered how explicitly the coalition was in favour of such a thing. Well, it may contain some implicit idea that the Coalition Party is a lobbying organisation for the good and privileged, but at least my party does not have it, but I expressly support the fact that a person should be able to have some obligations even in a situation where he assumes that he or she is financially supported by society. Yes, we have come to an untenable situation when it is assumed that if a person has been trained, then it would not be as if it were an obligation to accept something that was not suitable for that training. To Mr Kontula, I would say that I do not believe that a person should have a subjective right — if the work happens to be in Helsinki, for example, and the place of residence is Toijala — to absolutely refuse any work in another place. In my view, society must have the courage to have opportunities, courage and the ability to move on to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u268	Madam President! Congressman Rydman, the Coalition Party is a dream party with ears that make people's dreams come true. I just wanted to share your dreams, which you have managed to instill in me over the decades. I've got expectations for the coalition, which are positive. Recently, we have been able to read in the newspapers how Finns move abroad and stay there. Why, Congressman Rydman? Because they get a job that matches their profession. It's not a bad goal in life. First, when you study with a debt, you have a student debt, a housing debt, a family and two kids, and suddenly you leave work and then you have to go clean up with 1,000 euros, I don't think anyone thinks that if you refuse it, there's some sort of work-absorbing person. No, you think I've been working on this so I can do something I've been trained for. It's as simple as that. — Merry Christmas, Mr Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u269	Madam President! I, too, would have liked to say to Mr Rydman that, on the one hand, I share the views with the representative that, in principle, everyone should certainly be able to take up all kinds of work, whatever the type of education, but I would see that more individually in these situations it should be possible to assess the taking of work and the situation of the family, especially if there are small children in the family. And, for example, if there is a limit of 80 kilometres to what kind of weather, even if there is a car of its own, it goes back and forth, and then if public transport takes the journey and really has the situation of their children's day-care centres, the length of care and so on, I would see that instead of having very simple lines, there would be such a degree of flexibility precisely on the basis of assessing the situation of the whole family and, in particular, the situation of the children. In the longer term, from the point of view of health and well-being and also from the point of view of prevention, from the point of view of health and well-being, from the point of view of working life and also education, I would see that there are many years of education, especially if you have been educated for a long time, and that, after all, it is the most profitable and most important thing for society to have access to a profession that corresponds to your education, so that the education that society has provided is also available to everyone in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u270	Mr President! Mr Rydman, unemployment security legislation has included an obligation to move around for years. That's not the new thing. The new thing is that you have to move and you have to take up work even when the wages you earn from work and the income you earn together with the subsidies are less than the income you earn while you are receiving unemployment benefit. Well, that's not a problem if you get three tonnes of earnings-related daily allowance, but then it's a problem if you're already at the income support limit and you have to take up work on terms that make you less than what is considered a minimum income in Finland, which even temporarily allows you to live in this country. Representative Rydman, if you had to choose, go to full-time jobs so that you have 85 euros left in your hand, or be out of work on social security and get 485 euros a month, which one would you choose? I would say to Mr Laukkanen that I myself am highly educated, I have a doctorate, but since I am a sociologist, the idea that this can suddenly be cleaned up has never been a guest, and there are a lot of highly educated people in my line of work who work in very pre-arranged or poorly paid jobs. I would rather live in a society where a cleaner could have a university degree if he wanted to, than have a university degree in itself that belongs only to the upper middle class that has that detached house in Espoo. But of course I understand that this would require quite different parameters for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u271	Mr President! Kontula here directed a question that was about which I would rather choose, that I am off duty and get more money for free, or that I am working and have less money left in my hands. Well, yes, I'd rather pick out that I'm off duty and take more money, of course. But if, as politicians, we create a society in which it is really more profitable to stay home and enjoy more money than to go to work and get smaller money, then we have created a rather bad society then. Such incentive traps should be explicitly dismantled and made more profitable for employment. I will correct the history of Mr Laukkanen so that, in time, the Coalition Party launched a hope campaign and Jutta Urpilainen launched a dream campaign for the demos. The coalition campaigned not with dreams, but with hope. Of course, both campaigns were nonsense, but as such I like the idea of a 'Kingdom — Party as a Dream', so I would like to thank Mr Laukka for this, too, for his Christmas greetings. Mr Tanus is quite right in saying that there is a totally unacceptable situation if society is expensive enough to train people and provide a high level of education in such a way that this education is wasted and that such highly educated people are in some jobs that do not correspond to their educational background. It is indeed a waste of resources. It is easy to agree with this. Well, there are a lot of other things connected to this, of course. Of course, it makes sense for us to plan the study places in such a way that we also have realistic conditions for people to be employed in the sector to which they have been trained. But then, on the other hand, if there is a situation of being highly educated, becoming unemployed and it may be that for a while there will be no work available in your own field, it is quite reasonable that even temporarily you should receive some other than those in your own field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-16-ps-136.u272	Madam President! I have asked to speak again on these subjects of study. When Mr Rydman mentioned suitable study places, I also think as a hint of these study paths, thinking that I would like to see more attention paid in Finland in the future to the fact that at the time when students are right in the early stages of their studies, they might be able to work, just the usual jobs, the grass roots in a certain way, and as the studies progress, even during the course of their studies, take on various jobs. It comes from my own professional background, from a specialist’s professional background, that I think it is very good that in time I was so-called a nurse and then a nurse and a resident and an amanuence, and at the time when I finally got my own vocational qualification, there was quite a broad view of the practical work the health care staff are doing — representatives of health care staff at different workplaces and work titles. In that sense, it was not just theoretically necessary to think about how the work was going or how the cooperation could be better, but when you have taken up the practical work, it will be easier to work together in the work community. Then, too, if you think that later you would have to take up or have to take up a lot of different jobs, it would also be easier at that point if you had done concrete work by hand during your studies. So in that sense I would send a little like a tip when you think about these study paths, study systems and changes in them, that also this kind of practical perspective also for college students and long-term students would certainly be useful and necessary.
