ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u1	The theme of this formal session is equality in promoting the stability and development of society. I'm asking the ministers to move to the Council of Ministers. Today we are celebrating the celebration of universal and equal voting rights. The decision taken 110 years ago gave Finnish men and women the right to vote and stand for election. I am particularly proud that Finland has been a pioneer in gender equality when it gave women the right to vote, when in many other countries it seemed just a distant dream. Jag är stolt över att Finland varat en föregångare på jämställdhetens område: Kvinnorna fick rösrättt i en tid då Detta närmast var en avlägsen dröm i många andra lännder. Vi har också senare municipalities fungera som exempel i jämställdhetsfrågor, egentligen för hela världen. Med denna utgångspunkt har vi haft goda förutsättningar för ett fortsatt jämställdhets-arbete. The promotion of equality has required strong faith, hard will and a lot of work. It is difficult to define the beginning of the work, but it started long before women had the right to vote. Stone by stone we have built our society more equal. It should be noted, therefore, that it has taken enormous sacrifices and several decades to achieve results. Today, more or less everything is expected to be effective and results are required quickly. In turn, the development of society takes place with time and in many areas, when the results can sometimes be seen with delay. Gender equality contributes to a strong basis for stability, social peace and social development. It is vital that everyone, regardless of sex, feels equal to others. Every girl and every boy can equally pursue their dreams and build their lives. She can become a pilot or a president or a prime minister or a president and a midwife or vice versa. That, too, is equality. Jämställdheten är inte uppnådd. Vi måste slå vakt om och bygga på jämställdheten, samtidigt som vi också ser till att utvecklingen inte går bakåt. Det rucker då inte med vackra ord och festtal — låt vara att de kan skapa en positiv atmosfär och stärka tron på att målen kommer att nås. Vi måste alla delta i Jämställdhetsarbet, tillsammans och var och en för sig, för samhällets bästa. Equality is not ready. It must be fostered and supplemented and we must also ensure that we do not take steps back. Beautiful words, solemn speeches, even here, are not enough, even though they can still create a positive spirit and strengthen faith in achieving goals. Everyone must participate in equality work together and separately for the benefit of our society. So there is still work to be done, but today we can happily celebrate the 110th anniversary of universal and equal voting rights. One round of group speeches will be held in the order of size of the parliamentary groups. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u2	Mr President! 110 years ago, Finnish women were the first in the world to have the right to vote and stand as candidates in national elections. The most radical parliamentary reform in the world was done by abolishing the statutes. Finland’s highest decision-making body became Parliament. The general and equal right to vote, independent of wealth and social status, increased the number of persons entitled to vote also for men. In the regulatory society, only 8% of the total population had the right to vote. In the first parliamentary elections, 70.7 per cent exercised their right to vote. At that time 19 women and 181 men were elected to Parliament. The elected women’s representatives are the first elected women’s representatives in the history of the world. Among women, the interest in political influence was gradually aroused. The real breakthrough took place only in the 1970s, when the proportion of women MPs rose by more than 20 per cent. 117 men and 83 women were elected to Parliament in the parliamentary elections last year. Men have persistently remained a majority in Parliament, although the majority of voters are women. Among the solutions that have been important in terms of influence and political decision-making have been the 1944 reduction in the voting age from 24 to 21 and then from 18 to 1972. They have also been wise decisions that increase equality and solidarity, as more and more Finns received the right to vote. Mr President! Does the gender of decision makers matter anymore? Yes, it is. We women live strongly in people's everyday lives. This explains the greater interest and activity of women in improving the position of children, women and families, as well as equal access to education for all. Studies have shown that women are also more concerned than men about the state of the environment and human rights. As equality progresses and care responsibilities are shared more evenly, the values of men and women also converge. The strong participation of women in decision-making is reflected in our legislation. The revised Constitution, which entered into force at the beginning of the millennium, obliges the promotion of equality in social activities and working life. We have achieved a great deal through cross-party cooperation between women. I am thinking at least of the day care law, the female entrepreneur loan, the partial ban on the purchase of sex and the legalisation of state aid by women's organisations. Mr President! In this economy, equality has not progressed at the same pace as in political decision-making. Our working life is still divided into male and female-dominated sectors. We want to reward women's strong and diverse skills in economics and technology and future innovation with the centenary initiative. We propose that EUR 110000 be reserved for each year for the forthcoming budgets for women. The government has committed itself to the funding of the prize. Finland is an established democracy in which civil and human rights are respected. We have a well-educated population and an alert press that tells of the actions of political decision-makers. Nevertheless, voting turnout is worryingly low. At the same time, the means to influence citizens have diversified in many ways — well, that is good. The Central Parliamentary Group attaches great importance to strengthening democracy in all activities of society. A better system than representative democracy does not exist, at least not yet. Respect for human dignity and human rights, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law are the basis of the values of both Finland and the European Union. There are political movements in Europe which do not accept these but are seeking an authoritarian system. We are firmly opposed to this development. The central parliamentary group congratulates all young people who will finish their studies on Saturday. Together we will build a society that is safe and caring for all in Finland. By taking good care of even the weaker, we cherish the integrity and cohesion that is important to a small nation. Our message to you, young people, is: voting always pays off. Mr President! 110 years ago, Finland dared to move to the world's most equal electoral system. The Central Parliamentary Group considers it important to strengthen democracy and promote equality in all activities of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u3	Mr President! More than a hundred years ago, Finnish democracy was different from today. At that time, the number of votes in the elections largely depended on the property: the more property, the more votes. Women did not have the right to stand or to vote on the statute days. Today, each of us has only one vote, regardless of wealth — good. The voice of the citizen is his own, and it cannot be wrong. Mr President! Finnish women were granted the right to vote and to stand in all elections in 1906. It was not self-evident, as women's voting rights were opposed by conservatives of that time. Finally, the right to vote and to stand as a candidate for women and non-status men were easily passed through the Parliamentary Reform Working Group. A reform working group had been established in Parliament one year earlier with the idea of creating a one-chamber parliamentary institution in our country. Women’s right to vote was strongly supported by civil society. It also helped that women in Finland during that time had a central role both in the family community and in working life. Their contributions were known to be necessary. In the first parliamentary elections in 1907, 19 women were elected as MPs. Mr President! During the war years, women became increasingly responsible for maintaining the well-being of the fatherland and the functioning of society with men on the front to defend our independence. At that time, women carried out both traditional work and men’s work both in the war zone and on the home front. This was one crucial link in the big chain in which Finland survived the wars. After these years of crisis, the position and appreciation of Finnish women increased further. Mr President! Today, despite its economic problems, Finland is one of the most developed, prosperous, stable and equal countries in the world. There are challenges, but our situation is quite good in international comparisons. Women have also broken many glass ceilings, both in politics and in the business world. It is also common in Finland that women are open to many occupations and tasks that women do not have access to in all countries. An example is the international role of civilian crisis management specialist in various crisis scenes in the world, such as the Balkans, the Middle East and Africa, where I myself have been both a human trafficking investigator and a police commander. From experience, I can tell you that Finnish equality is appreciated in the world. We are pioneers of equality. However, we must make even greater efforts, together with our excellent men, to combat all sex-based contempt, discrimination, subordination and violence. By our own example, we can make a lot of difference. Mr President! What is it, do we see that, as in Pakistan right now, a bill could be made in Finland to allow a woman to be lightly beaten if she does not obey her husband or dress up, as a man demands, and so on, with unequally justified reasons for legally using violence? No way. It should therefore be understood that the issues of equality, which are obvious to us, are not for everyone else. Equality can be influenced by legislation, but also by education and home education. Another example: I grew up in a home where equality was natural. Only the rest of the world ever asked strange questions: Can a girl do martial arts? Could she be a cop? In the past I met Tunisian women parliamentarians under the leadership of MP Anttila. One of them, whose husband is a police officer, was excited that in Finland the police could also become a congressman. They don't even have the police to vote for. Mr President! The Finnish People's Parliament Group thanks Finnish women for their work in favour of an equal Finnish society. Thanks to them, we can today celebrate the 110th anniversary of the women's right to vote in our country, which is partly celebrated by the money prize mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u4	Madam President! 110 years ago, Finnish society changed. Women and men, regardless of their background, wealth or social status, were granted universal and equal voting rights and also the right to stand for election. The universal and equal right to vote was, on a global scale, a progressive leap in equality between women and men, but above all, in equality between citizens. Equal opportunities for voting and participation in elections are a sustainable basis for democracy. It is a foregone measure, the unmeasured value of which we seldom remember to rejoice together. This democracy based on equality is the foundation on which the whole Finnish success story was built. The first seed of our society's secure everyday life, sustainable welfare from generation to generation, the world's best educational system, and also the most recent Finnish innovations conquering the digital world was sown when the right to vote was equal. Even after 110 years, Finnish society is known for its strong equality. Finland and many Finns are appreciated for their long-term work in promoting equality in international fields. "The question of women is not only a female question, but a question of the whole On a global scale, gender equality work, and in particular the promotion of the role of women, is only just beginning in a number of developing countries. Even our own society is not ready for gender equality. Equality work still has a role to play. The "Thinklobal,actlocal" principle is well suited for equality work. A major step forward in the promotion of equality worldwide is the first comprehensive agreement in the world aimed at preventing and eliminating violence against women and domestic violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention. The agreement addresses such horrors as physical and mental violence, persecution, rape, sexual harassment, genital mutilation, forced abortion, forced sterilisation and forced marriages. The list of wrongs is long, and although they seem distant in this Chamber, there are unfortunately too many of the horrors mentioned here in Finland today as well. Violence against women has been considered one of the most serious human rights violations in Finland. The fact that our home base is formally in good shape on the basis of laws and international standards does not mean that everything is good and ready. Equality must also take place in practice. Many immigrant women are particularly vulnerable. One piece of news about the so-called "honorless violence" is too much. Theresa Ngouth, elected refugee woman of 2015, has stated: "Language is a light that opens doors." Immigrant women's language teaching is an excellent example of this millennium's work on gender equality, which also provides access to hobbies, work and other crucial safety nets and, above all, the opportunity to understand the equal rights that apply to all people living in Finland. The biggest injustices will certainly take place far away from here, but work must also be done at home in Finland every day. Mr President! The role of women in working life and a more even distribution of parental responsibility are among the most important subjects of equality work both in us and in the world. They are also intertwined in many respects. By reforming the parental leave model, we can best promote a more equal distribution of parental responsibility than women's careers. Among other things, SAK published its new progressive proposal for a parental leave model in the spring. Such valuable proposals take equality one step at a time. The most important thing, however, is to break down the steep gender role models and role expectations. Our children learn the role models that are maintained in our society — the home and family only contribute to the human concept and the world view. The Assembly's parliamentary group also supports the initiative for action mentioned in the previous speech on the annual award of a significant award to women. Mr President! I sincerely hope that in Finland in the near future, children and young people will be able to grow up in a society where, at least by the government, the expectations of the role of the sexes are no longer maintained. There are no roles in parenting, home or working life that belong primarily to a woman or a man. The decision taken 110 years ago may have broken the most important right to gender-distinguishment which gave women the right to influence and participate in social decision-making. Our common task is to break the remaining obstacles to equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u5	"I'm going to make a statement, either way." Mr President! Thus said Miina Sillanpää, elected among the first 19 women in our country, defending her right to speak of the status of illegitimate mothers and children in the desire of a male colleague to move on to "other, perhaps more important things". Miina courageously maintained her line, and today she is known both as the first female minister in our country and as the founder of the Mother and Child Homes. President! The year 1906 was a turning point for democracy. Finland was the first in the world to draw up the political order and the electoral law, which provided for universal and equal voting rights and the right to stand as a candidate. The general right to vote meant that political rights were granted to all, both women and non-status men. The same meant that everyone’s voice was equal. The number of persons entitled to vote increased tenfold as the poor also received a vote. The foundation of our country's equality and democracy was laid. Irade fru talman! Gender equality is a prerequisite for social justice, sustainable development and peace. The welfare society is built on equality for all. The economic downturn or hardened values must not lead to an increase in inequality — the same rights to health care, education or the security of minimum income for everyone. The claim for equality applies to both sexual and gender minorities as well as disabled people and different language groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u6	Mr President, värderade fru talman! The first female MPs in the world were Finns. We can be proud of this. The fact that 'the maids are allowed to vote' caused both disapproval and enthusiasm abroad. In the United States, immigrant women carried signs: "The women of Finland are allowed to vote, why are we not?" The right to vote in general had been demanded by a strong movement of people, both the Labour movement and the constitutional right. At the demonstrations, shawl-headed working women called for a sound-out-of-the-sounding-the-sounding-her-face with fine-dominated women. The requirement for universal suffrage was included in the Red Declaration, which was read from the balcony of the Tampere Town Hall to the big strike convention of 40,000 people in 1905. In the first months of our country's independence, there was a bloody civil war. Now Finland is showing off at the top of many international comparisons or near the tip. This has a connection to the woman's position. Gender equality, human rights and civil liberties are often referred to as other forms of development as separate virtues. In reality, they are a way to enable people to use their abilities for their own life and society. In the best countries in the world, gender equality is the best thing in the world. Similarly, authoritarianism and the subjugation of women go hand in hand. However, most of the reforms that build equality have in due course been debated. In the late 19th century, when women's paid work became more widespread, they were intimidated to deprive men of their jobs — with arguments similar to those now being intimidated by immigrants. At the beginning of the 20th century, the Rector of the University of Helsinki stated in his speech that the physical ability of women to endure strenuous studies is lower than that of men. During the first parliamentary elections, in the cartoon picture of the newspaper, a woman with a tumult is giving a speech and in the background a man feeds a baby. The fact that a female MP is giving birth and taking maternity leave did not normalise until the end of the 20th century. At the beginning of the last century, infant mortality was high and more than one in three hundred birthers died. One of the proposals of the first female representatives was that municipalities should be obliged to hire midwives. The proposal was not adopted at that time. Many male representatives felt that instead women should do educational work instead of obliging municipalities. Despite national rights, the rise of women to leading positions has been slow. The first Minister for Women, Miina Sillanpää, was appointed in 1926 and promoted improvements to the position of single mothers, among other things. During the war, women's activity as a lott and in the home front industry expanded women's professional opportunities even after peace. However, it was not until the 1990s that the first woman was appointed President of the Bank of Finland, Chairman of the Parliament, Rector of the University and Captain of the Air. The first female president, prime minister and bishop were not seen until the 21st century. Today, terrorism and collapsed societies are among the greatest threats to our security. This is linked to the role of women, not only because the extreme interpretations of different cultures and religions involve the subordination of women, in particular the prohibition of sexual self-determination. On many occasions, the large number of unemployed young men have been identified as a breeding ground for terrorism. The position of women has an impact on this: the birth rate is moderated as soon as women are given the opportunity to make their own living and the right to decide on their own bodies. The role of a woman also affects infant mortality, the growth of which has been identified as a predictive measure of the violent spiral in society. Thus, the building of equality is the building of a better society and a safer world. Mr President, värderade fru talman! Vi måste fortsätta att arbeta för jämställdheten, ‘the work on equality must be continued’. Although in Finland gender equality is good internationally, violence against women is still too widespread, the female euro is still short, women bear the main responsibility for care in families, which affects both careers and pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u7	Mr President! 110 years ago, it was decided to implement universal and equal voting rights in Finland. Finally, women and workers were also considered fit to decide government matters. Of course, there were limits to frequency at that time. Among other things, there was a lack of voting rights for taxpayers, criminals, vagrants and those who received help from the poor. The voting rights of these groups did not take place until decades later. So the universal and equal right to vote did not take place with one cough, as these solemn speeches are fond of remembering. Rather, it is a gradual, still unfinished process. Today, the limits of universal suffrage are stretched by the debate on the reduction of the voting age to 16 years. Tomorrow we may be considering the political rights of immigrants. Even these provisions had a 110 - year - old decision, yet a historical manifesto of trust, a declaration for a nation in which human growth to its full extent is based on freedom and participation rights, not control and subordination. Such confidence must not have been easy just a generation after the great years of famine, half a generation before the civil war. Among the elite, many felt that women and workers could not be expected of political judgment. Many people considered the idea that political power would no longer be divided on the basis of wealth. Mr President! What happened to the women? Did they get those political rights? Yes and no. Even today, women are the B series of politics. The most important decisions remain in the hands of men and decisions taken by men are considered more important. Although half of those entitled to vote are women, at best women have reached 85 places in parliamentary elections. The committee institution continues to repeat the division of labour in the agrarian society, where women take care of social, educational and environmental issues while men focus on the economy and security. The experts consulted by the committees are also divided into themes. About a third of them are women, and they are heard triumphally in women-dominated committees. In everyday parliamentary practice, gender equality is encapsulated as a special issue for a small group of amateurs. For most people in this house, equality seems to mean the forced speech of the seminar during which you can have coffee and cigarettes. So if the political participation of women is not quite at the finish line, then even slower progress has been made in the working class towards an equal political actor. The probability of a senior staff member entering this Chamber is still many times higher than the probability of being employed. Parliament’s bubble is clearly a bubble of people with good income. And even though the questions of gender equality are on the margins, it is even more inappropriate to mention class differences, but speaking of classes is more than going to banquets on a tablecloth, it is already proved by the name of this sitting, where the general and equal right to vote has been cleaned up as women's right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be honest, as a representative of a party of less than 10%, we feel that the people do not always have the wisdom to choose. A person is unfortunately often staggering, rash and inconsistent, whether poor or rich, a man or a woman. But the right to vote is not about rationality, it is about democracy. The idea of democracy is that people's right to participate in decision-making about themselves is more important than ensuring the quality of an individual decision and that, in the longer term, it is the participation of different people and groups that guarantees the best result. Freedom and responsibility are intertwined. Freedom can only be freedom if it enables both wise and less wise choices. Responsibilities can only be imposed on those with power and options. 110 years ago, a jump into the unknown was taken here, but it was taken because for those who decided that time, the word "hardness" did not mean surgical lists, but the ability to peek beyond familiar solutions. The question today is whether we have the courage to carry the flag forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u8	Irade the Talman! När vi mäter mänsklig utveckling i dag utgård Mätarna alltid från hur väl kvinnors ställning och Jämsälldhet utvecklats. Det är med stor glädje vi i dag firar kvinnors rösträtt och dem som först i världen lyckades göra kvinnor aven politiskt valbara. I Början var det inte lt. Det dröjde mer 50 år innan andelen kvinnor i riksdage översteg 10 percent och började växa ordentligt. Ur denna synvinkel är Finland år 1906 ofattbart modern och progressive. När jämställdheten ökade fick kvinnor större frihet att bestamma om sina egna liv, att besluta om sin egen kropp och ökad ekonomisk självständighet. Allt detta har skapat vämåendet även för deras fabillioner och för vårt samhalle. Då Finland i dag toppar världsrankingar vilar denna framgång även på kvinnornas arbete. Jämställdhet har blivet en del av den finländska identiteten och vårt internationalella brand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u9	Madam President! Finnish women received the right to vote 110 years ago, and the following year, first in the world, the first female MPs were elected. An important first step was taken in the construction of an equal society. We remember with warmth and thank everyone who has worked for this dream. The right to vote gave women the opportunity to contribute to Finnish society. The ability of women to bring the everyday and family aspects of life into a major social issue was 110 years ago and remains one of the strengths of women. decades ago, the importance of health and well-being, families, education and working life in promoting equality was recognised. In this broken world, however, the idea does not always come true. The welfare of every citizen must be taken care of, but the interests of children and young people must be given priority. Far too many children feel the shame of a safe father or mother. Like the first women representatives, work must also be done in modern society to improve the position of children, in order to preserve the fundamental human rights of children. Equal opportunities for education and training have improved. Our education in the world has been admired, but also wondered: in Finland, in a country where freedom of expression and religion is enshrined in the Constitution, belief can still be a barrier to women's study and employment, career advancement. The decision-makers, those in charge of education and work should see the situation realistically — in spite of the pains and fears of their own and the lives of their immediate circle — and open up opportunities for study and work to those who respect that small life. As a encouragement to girls and boys, I say clear your way to dream training and a dream profession, whatever it is. Fight your own fight for equality, as women did over 100 years ago. Finland’s maternity care is exemplary, but there is still room for improvement in reconciling family, small children’s home care and work. In the history of work, in the cv, the extra points should be reflected in the valuable periods used by mothers and fathers to promote small citizens, future influences, well-being, strong self-esteem and empathy while caring for them at home. This operating environment for many simultaneous variables teaches solution orientation, innovation, tenacity — to mention just a few things — and should serve as a prestigious stepping stone for future tasks in working life. Child care and child rearing should also be properly pensioned, not only within the walls of day care centres, but also for those working at home. In terms of equality, this is particularly important for large families. A rapidly changing society must consciously assess what is good and valuable, what should be preserved and what to strive for. Communityism, doing things together, providing help and genuine caring for one’s neighbor are fundamental values and operating models that emerge from Christianity that are needed in the construction of a better, equal Finland. Madam President! At the opening session of the Parliament in 1907, Hilda, Finland’s first female MP In his speech, Cukikoski stressed the importance of prayer and Bible reading. Such a welfare-promoting and wisdom-opening activity is for a stable, equal and progressive society in the pursuit of wisdom and still warmly recommended. We are in favour of the measure proposed earlier. And with the 110th anniversary of the women's right to vote, I wish everyone wisdom and tenacity — and the best of all, God's blessing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-01-ps-62.u10	At the end of the formal session, we will raise a three-time cheer for the country.
