ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u1	The third issue in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of the state's corporate governance policy. After the Prime Minister's presentation, one round of group talks will take place with a maximum of 5 minutes. Then, in accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, I will issue replies of up to 2 minutes, which will be reserved by V-button. About 2.5 hours are reserved for discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u2	Mr President! Achieving the vision of the Government Programme obliges us to make state ownership an active tool for social renewal. The implementation of the vision requires us to improve the use of capital not only to activate current ownership but also to create new economic activity in Finland by means of state ownership control. This is what the government is doing now. Mr President! I will start by telling you about the state of state ownership and then what the government intends to change and why. In Finland, the value of state-owned companies is exceptionally high. In European comparison, Finland is at the forefront. According to OECD 2014 data, in 2012, the Finnish State as an owner was involved in companies and businesses with a combined value of about 53 per cent of GDP. The value of companies and businesses with the majority of the state was about 20 per cent of GDP. In the light of these figures, we are wasting resources if we are not able to increase economic activity by means of state ownership. The history of state ownership is glorious. The payment of the war compensation provided a basis for industry. During President Kekkonen's time, state ownership offered the nation the opportunity to prosper and create new ones. In recent decades, state ownership has since sought direction. Rather, state ownership has even been perceived as a disadvantage and a rigidity. There has been no vision for ownership and the state’s corporate ownership has not had a development path defined by the owner. The expansion of ownership has in practice taken place under duress, and the sale of state ownership and revenues have been used to make up the budget. This will require a change. The state balance sheet must be made more productive and efficient. Getting a government balance sheet to work doesn't mean getting a budget or putting a fortune in meat for me. It means activating current ownership and creating new economic activity and jobs. For example, the state owner has such opportunities in the development of the platform economy. Mr President! State ownership must become a tool for active social renewal. Ownership matters. During this difficult economic period, the importance of face-to-face Finnish ownership has been highlighted at the latest. Finland must not become a mere subsidiary economy. We still need measures to strengthen the creation of companies' own capital. The aim must be for more and more Finns to become owners of, for example, employer companies and strengthen national capitalism. The change in state ownership policy requires changes in the operating methods and structure of owner guidance. In order to achieve this, the Government proposes an eight-point amendment programme: 1) The capital will be decoupled to give birth to a new one. 2) Establish a development company as a tool for renewal. 3) In support of ownership steering, a parliamentary advisory board is elected. 4) A new ownership limit of 33.4 % will be established to safeguard the strategic interest. 5) Changes to company-specific ownership limits are proposed. 6) Social responsibility as the basic value of state-owned companies. (7) The management and staff of stock exchange companies are encouraged to own. 8) The company's management's redundancy payments are halved. Mr President! Firstly, the State owner must offer the companies he owns natural development paths for growth. This often requires changes in the ownership structure. Where, overall, it is no longer necessary for the State to own the company to its present extent, capital can be decoupled in order to create a new one. Regeneration takes courage and always giving up something. The starting point for the birth of a new one is the state's ability to act as an enabler of new business and economic activity radiating around it. Of course, the inclusion of the State in the new business is an exception. It requires deep reflection and a high decision-making threshold. Secondly, the government has decided to set up a development company as a tool for renewal. The development company’s task is to provide state-owned companies with a natural development path for the renewal and development of the ownership structure of the companies. Like Solidium, the development company is a non-budgetary actor. It enables the use of decoupled capital, firstly, to create new business, secondly, to strengthen the capital structure of the companies in the development company’s portfolio, and thirdly, to implement the business arrangements effectively. Fourthly, changing the ownership structure now becomes a new tool for developing companies. The development company’s operations do not overlap with business policy actors such as Suomen Teollisuusinvesta Oy and Tekes VP Oy. In the first phase, shares of Neste, Vapo, Posti and Arctia will be transferred to the development company: the shares of Altia and Ekokem — for example, in Ekokem we have about one third of the ownership — Nordic Morning Oyj, Raskone Oy and Kemijoki Oy. The company's assets will be transferred to the development company as an app. Administratively, the development company's activities are kept closer to political decision-making than Solidium. In practice, this means more stringent decision-making control when buying, selling or setting up new ones, for example. The Government decides on matters of general and fundamental importance for the development company. The Minister of Ownership is responsible for the management of the development company and the appointment of the Board of Directors. The main decisions will be dealt with in a preparatory manner in the Committee on Economic Policy. Thirdly, state ownership policy is a long-term policy and calls for parliamentary commitment over the parliamentary term. The present change in state ownership is a major one. The Government proposes a parliamentary advisory board to be set up within the Prime Minister's Office. It enables the change to be carried through in a controlled way and the whole parliament is involved in the change. The Advisory Board's task is to provide advice on questions related to the operating policy of the state's company ownership, the principles of corporate governance and the limits of Parliament's powers in general. The Advisory Board is not responsible for company-specific matters. A request for appointment to the Advisory Council will be sent to the parliamentary groups during this May. Fourthly, the government proposes a new ownership limit of 33.4 per cent in order to achieve a strategic interest. In practice, a third of the shares have the right to veto the company's most important decisions. To date, the State as the owner has carried out a strategic interest either by full ownership or by majority ownership. Fifthly, in connection with the second draft amending budget, the Government proposes to Parliament the following seven changes in ownership limits: firstly, the ownership limit for Gasum and Fingrid will be increased from 0 to 50.1%. This clearly indicates that state gas and electricity networks are strategic ownership of the state also in the long term. In the preparation of the decision on the principle, the ministries responsible for the ownership management of each company were also examined. The aim is to improve the efficiency of corporate governance and to distinguish as far as possible between regulation and corporate governance. In addition to the previously decided Veikkaus, Slot Machine Association and Fintoto’s combined gaming company, steering responsibility will be transferred to the Prime Minister’s Office in the following companies: first, Finavia Corporation, in charge of airport operations and air traffic control services, Finnpilot Pilotage Oy, in charge of pilot training, and Finnish Aviation College Ltd. In addition, Finrail Oy, responsible for rail traffic management, will be transferred from the Prime Minister's Office to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Mr President! The sixth point is the fundamental value of state-owned companies as regards social responsibility. Values form the soil on which all decision-making is based. State-owned companies must set an example in value management. Taking responsibility for society is based on the principle that a company as a part of society is doing better than the society around it is doing. In the global economy, it is important that state-owned companies build their competitiveness on a long-term basis. One aspect of increasing long-term competitiveness is also the acceptance of social responsibility. As a good business citizen, the company contributes to the long-term development and renewal of society. Social responsibility must be reflected, inter alia, in the following ways: Firstly, taxes are paid to the country where the result is generated. Secondly, it is unacceptable to minimise taxation using tax havens, for example. Paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Agenda for Change are of personal importance to me. We can change things when we have the will. State-owned companies must also set an example in the remuneration of management and convey a reasonable message to society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u5	Mr President! During the first year of Sipilä’s Government, the big issues of Finland’s future, since the social contract and the reform of social and health services, have progressed or are moving forward. Now we must work together to make every effort to make the economy grow and to improve employment. Mr President! In order to achieve a turnaround and lift Finland from the recession, state ownership policy can at best have a significant leverage effect. This is also the most important aspect of these new ownership policies. Our national property is not put into meat, but now owner policy is reforming Finland, supporting economic growth and creating conditions for new businesses and jobs. The change to the past is fundamental. During the previous parliamentary term, and especially during the last parliamentary term, the revenue from the sale of assets was mainly lost to the budgetary pits. Ownership policy management has also been reformed and reformed. Now the ownership policy is in the hands of the government’s management, the Prime Minister. This also underscores the importance of ownership policy in putting Finland in shape. Mr President! After the Second World War, the state and state-owned companies played an exceptionally strong role in the construction of the welfare society and the industrialisation of Finland, up to the northernmost parts of the country. The Centre Party's Parliamentary Group believes that today's ownership policy must also be seen as the employment, entrepreneurship and industrial policies of the future. Now the key words are renewal and reform. In other words, the balance sheet will be put to work, as Prime Minister Sipilä and the Centre put it before the parliamentary elections. Global change, especially digitalisation and the circular economy, requires a new kind of infrastructure based on software and data, often more than on machinery and physical structures. Secondly, we have companies where state ownership does not bring the same added value as before. Therefore, ownership can be calculated. However, in companies essential for the safety and well-being of Finns, ownership limits are maintained. Ownership policy must contribute to making use of the resources of the country as a whole and support the balanced development of Finland so that growing and new businesses are in a position throughout the kingdom. That is why, for example, air connections must be secured throughout the country. Mr President! State ownership policy is not only about skyrocketing euro amounts but also about security of supply, security and Finnish ownership. For example, the ownership of Fingrid is now anchored as the majority ownership of the state. Other strategic ownership is maintained in the state. Indeed, not everything is a trade, and it should not be, and even when ownership arrangements are made in companies carrying out special tasks, society must ensure that people’s services are provided by law. Mr President! Ownership policy also requires a long-term approach beyond the electoral term. The Central Parliamentary Group considers it important to set up a parliamentary advisory board to support ownership management. This is also natural because practically all parliamentary parties have been deciding on ownership policy in the last 25 years and also selling state-owned companies. It is equally important that the interests of the senior management of state-owned companies are properly constrained. Social responsibility becomes the basic value of each company, and tax havens are said no. This should also serve as an example for private companies. Above all, it is a question of fairness and fairness. Mr President! The Central Finland Parliament Group strongly supports Sipilä's Government's policy to reform Finland and promote social responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u6	Mr President! Last week the Government presented a new policy on corporate governance, which is a significant improvement to the past. Thanks to the new structure, more robust corporate governance will be more consistent, more responsible and longer than the parliamentary term. The role of the Parliament will be strengthened by the establishment of a parliamentary advisory board on the policy of state ownership and the principles of corporate governance. At the same time, the transparency of corporate governance will also be increased. Ownership guidance also sets an example of social responsibility and value management. Mr President! As Prime Minister Sipilä said, the financial value of state-owned companies is exceptionally high in Finland. In terms of value, the Finnish State owns the largest number of enterprises compared to GDP in the whole of Europe. The company assets balance must be made to serve growth and employment better than at present. To this end, a non-budgetary development company will be set up under which a number of state-owned companies will be transferred. Our country is still in a difficult economic situation, and the new corporate governance policy will make the state companies better served our country's growth and employment. The guiding principle is that a company is not an isolated unit of society, but that it manages as a part of society the better the society around it can. The development company is responsible for making the revenue generated by the companies fall and will be used in the future to invest and create new businesses, not to cover the eating debt. National assets will no longer fill the budget deficit. The use of tax havens and aggressive tax planning is explicitly prohibited in the programme. Taxes must be paid to the country where the result is generated. The companies report their tax trail. This is, in the opinion of the Finns Party, a key policy that should be followed more generally in all business activities. Another very central line, Mr President, is that the reform will severely cut the bonuses and redundancy payments for the management of state enterprises. It is important that state companies thus show the market a model of reasonableness. The implementation of this entry was of great importance to the Finns — the very lifeblood of the reform project. In the future, the management of companies will also be encouraged to own the shares of their employer company. In this way they show commitment, faith in the company’s growth and development, and even stronger commitment to the company’s long-term success. In addition, our parliamentary group welcomes the fact that the reform now undertaken strengthens the important strategic ownership of the state. As a critical reform for security of supply, the ownership limits of Gasum and Fingrid will be increased to 50.1%. This was one of the most important long-term guidelines for corporate governance from the perspective of the Finns. The current government does not repeat the short-sighted mistakes of its predecessors, such as Fortum's sales of electricity networks to Caruna.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u11	Mr President! From the perspective of the Coalition Party, there are many important aspects to the reform of state ownership management. The balance sheet really needs to be put to work and productive use. Taxpayers' money must be made to calve and create new growth in Finland. In international comparisons, the Finnish State has considerable company ownership, which can also be lightened if necessary. State ownership has a place where market-based activities leave light — or create a platform for new growth. State ownership is also significant in the case of a natural monopoly or a strategic interest of society, for example in security of supply. In other contexts, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party believes that the central government balance sheet should be made more efficient. It's the right direction now. Reform requires courage and also the abandonment of certain holdings. A strategic interest can be realised by more than majority ownership or 100 % ownership. That is why a new ownership limit of the strategic interest was decided: 33.4%. Remaining a large minority owner retains the owner’s rights and means to influence the company’s strategic choices and, at the same time, the flow of dividend income may continue. From this point of view, one might ask whether the sales authorisations for some other companies should have been extended. In any case, this direction, which was now decided by the government, is right and reasonable. On the other hand, there was also a significant signal that, if necessary, the State could also actively increase its corporate ownership. Natural monopolies are natural objects of public ownership. An example of this is Fingrid and Gasum. As has been said, state ownership in companies is not an end in itself, but must always pursue objectives that would not be possible by other means. However, genuine competition must not be distorted by state ownership. Mr President! As a second point of view, I would like to raise the issue of new growth in the direction of the release of funds. A reduction in state ownership is a good way to attract new international expertise and capital to Finland – we want new investments in our country. The new owner always brings new ideas. However, in the event of the release of State resources, the perspective of professional growth and development must be very clear. We do not accept that sales revenue should be invested on party political grounds, for example, while destroying our national property. That is why I would also like to put the reform of the new development company at the centre. It is very important that the use of the potential sales income of the new development company is decided at Government level. The decision to give up and take a new start must always be based on careful consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u18	Congressman Ihalainen. — I would ask that we stick to that in five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u19	Mr President! The basic message of the Blue and White Ownership Programme of the SDP is: a strong and active state ownership policy is needed and not everything must be for trade. State ownership policy must safeguard and strengthen domestic ownership in sectors and companies of national importance and, at the same time, combat Finland's drift into a subsidiary economy. Finland must also not become a zone free of the main offices of companies. It is good to remember that state companies employ more than 88,000 people in Finland directly and indirectly even more. There are three companies of state-owned strategic interest: Fortum, Neste and Finnair. The parliamentary group of the SDP does not consider it reasonable that the ownership limit for liquid should be reduced to 33.4 per cent. It is more logical, in terms of security of supply, that Neste's ownership also remains at more than 50 per cent, as Fortum and Finnair did. Dropping the ownership ratio of Posti to 50.1% raises many questions, including how basic services of Posti are secured equally, especially in sparsely populated areas. Before any concrete changes are made to the ownership base of Posti, it would be reasonable to answer the following basic question: What kind of Postia Finland and the citizens need? This vision seems to me to be on the lookout, or do the government already have clear answers to this in its back pocket? As a warning in advance: the SDP does not think it is right for VR to split up. For example, the removal of the vehicle company from VR leads to a loss of overall competitiveness of the company under conditions in which passenger transport will be opened up to competition. The anchoring of the Fingrd and Gasum ownership limit to 50% is a good thing. Mr President! The Government proposes the creation of a new development company located outside the budget. We are concerned if the main objective of this new company is to get the companies ready to sell. The development company must genuinely generate new value and be a company that creates ownership and strengthens the capital structure, not a sales office. You don't need a new one like that. In order to stimulate export-driven growth, the SDP has proposed to examine, in particular, the creation of a special company in favour of exports of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), a so-called pedestal company. The company to be set up could coordinate the instruments of export refunds as a whole, provide companies with partnerships and networking, analysis services — acting as a stand-in company bringing companies together. The idea is to offer larger projects for export and not just individual products or services. I would ask the government: does the government want to take up this constructive innovation proposal in our view? The parliamentary group of the SDP considers that the State should participate in the decision-making process of the companies with the share it owns in the companies. It makes no sense to outsource state ownership to so-called government professionals who do not have the heart and the idea of promoting state interests. In all the Nordic countries, the state is very closely involved in the operation of its own companies. Of course, state ownership policy must be made in time. The SDP has not objected to the timely sale of assets if it is directed towards new construction and investment in the future. There are many points in our programme that refer to this. Over time, different governments have sold state property: the Aho government, Lipponen, Vanhanen, Katainen and Stubb’s government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u23	Mr President! State companies are part of the history of Finnish industrialisation. They are still necessary when it comes to security of supply. State-owned companies are also employers. Strengthening work and well-being in a sustainable way must be at the heart of ownership steering. It cannot mean putting Finland in a position to sell. But you have to be able to give up something old while at the same time feeding the beginning of a new one. The more we develop new export products, the more people will be given jobs. State enterprises have been set up in time for a need, but the needs change. In the interests of honesty, Solidium should not be considered an investment portfolio, as the return on the stock market portfolio has been weak. Many ownership has been based on maintaining regional jobs. Last year Solidium bought more Metso and Outotec even though their profits were negative. In the spring, Prime Minister Sipilä justified the strengthening of the steel company SSAB's balance sheet with employment. National ownership therefore has an interest in long-term ownership. The government has also pumped money into Winterfell, but now it is time to draw conclusions to avoid further losses and drive the mine down in a controlled manner. The government could invest more in green technology. The sustainable future and new growth sectors must also be reflected in investment decisions. Why isn't Solidium more courageously investing in economic reform options? The Government has announced that it will set up a new development company for corporate restructuring. The development company is not a magic trick for jobs. The government does not even cover up the effort to sell the nine companies that are completely or partially transferred to it: Arctia, Postia, Neste, Vapo, Kemijoki, Ekokem and others. These would be removed from democratic decision-making and Parliament would not be asked for sales powers in the future. I can't do this! The mail now carries letters to every corner of the country. What happens to the recovery of migratory fish stocks if the government develops the Kemijoki River and hydropower? Who protects the precious swamps when negotiations with Vapok have been challenging? What about Arctia? Its strategic mission is to break the ice on our waterways. The fascination of the Arctic oil industry is madness. Four fifths of the known fossil resources must be left on the ground so that the world does not heat up to more than two degrees. Finding and pumping new oil is not worth it if we actually commit ourselves to the Paris climate agreement. Business development can also bring benefits, and sales decisions are ad hoc. But why give all the authority to the development company without knowing the plans? The Greens are not in favour of setting up a new development company to cover up the arrangements. We call for transparency, ethics, the safeguarding of natural values, new jobs, new sectors such as the circular economy, green inventions, new renewable energy. Finland is a northern island where people want to travel by rail, eat food from their own country and live in a secure society where energy supply and electricity distribution work. Strategic ownership must be maintained. The purchase of Fingrid and Gasum to the government is to be welcomed. By developing the gas transmission network, we can also create markets for biogas. The mistakes of the past and the sale of natural monopolies must not be repeated. Our own food is also strategic, and it is influenced by many things. When the Finnish State sold Kemira Grow-How shares to Norwegian Yara in 2007, the prices of fertilizers would rise. This shows how sensitive the issue of security of supply is in the end. Workable communication connections are also the security of modern society. Social responsibility must be borne by state-owned companies. Taxes are paid where profits are made and tax havens should not be used for aggressive tax planning. During Minister Haavisto, the opening of the tax footprint of state-owned companies was increased, which must be fully implemented. You have to put limits on greed. Greens are in favour of cutting corporate management bonuses and layoffs. Good corporate governance is not just a policy, because state companies belong to all of us, Finns. That's why it's so important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u24	Mr President! State companies have created work and wealth in Finnish society. In the last 20 years, this national property has been destroyed by foreclosure. The winners have been the foreign players. The government deserves to be commended — for drawing the attention of the Committee of Ministers to the state's business activities. In this way it will reveal the mistakes made in the privatisation of state-owned companies, namely our national ownership. As the sole party in the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy, the Left Party opposed Fortum's Caruna stores, the sale of a natural monopoly to foreign venture investors. The mistakes of the Caruna stores cost electricity users a high price. Fortunately, we have now woken up, and in the future, the state ownership of Gasum and Fingrid must be more than half. Mr President! The government promises far too much when it says that it believes that political policies are a growth-creating ownership policy. In its proposal, 'put the balance sheet to work' means privatising state property by creating new bureaucracy to own and sell our national assets. The development company planned by the Government is therefore a question of the city centre's election slogan "Finland in order". True, the people were not told before the election that the correct version of the slogan was "Finland for sale". The Board's sales list includes Posti, Neste, Kemijoki, Vapo, Arctia and Altia. The splitting and privatisation of VR is planned, and the future of Finnair is also being addressed. Prime Minister Sipilä has said, among other things, here today that increasing sales powers is not the same thing as selling. That's right. However, on Thursday, Eero Helihovaara, the senior official in the ownership steering, said what is really the case: capital from sales is recycled for investment and the proceeds from sales are used to finance key projects during this parliamentary term. These policies say nothing about how much national property the government is selling to finance, for example, the so-called 'key projects'. Mr President! In ownership politics, there is a place to look in the mirror in the entire political field. In relative terms, most of the state assets have been sold by Lipponen's 2nd, Vanhanen 1st and Stubb's Temporary Board of Directors. So mistakes have been made, and that is why we need to learn from them. Perhaps the saddest example is Fortum's fate. The State sold 37 per cent of Fortum's shares. If Fortum's shares had not been sold, its dividends would have come to the Finnish State as a whole and to this day the State would have received more than three times more revenue from Fortum and Neste Oil than the State received from the privatisation sale — and all Fortum and Neste as a whole would still be our national assets. Now the government is suggesting that evenly profitable We could sell more out of the liquid. A profitable and strategically important company will be able to get money out for a while, but in a little longer term the state will disappear. This is not a sensible economic policy. Mr President! In the privatisation of state companies, the neoliberal model is the late British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. It is not surprising in itself that the government is making thatcherian politics, since Timo is Soini named Thatcher as his political role model, Stubb said he was a Thatcherian in his heart and Sipilä told his businessmen that he had cheered up his businessmates when he made his corporate policy. But one thing was too much for Thatcher: the privatisation of British mail, Royal Mail, was a step too far for Thatcher. Thatcher has announced that he is not prepared to sell the queen's head. The Sipilä Board is prepared to sell 49.9 percent of Posti's shares. So the mail can be chopped up or taken to the Post... stock exchange.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u27	Värderade Herr Talman, Mr. Speaker! När det gäller statens ägarstyrningspolitik kan man comprimerat sammanfatta det på det jättet att svenska riksdagsgrupen tycker att det inte är något självändamål att äga — men det kan Heller inte vara ett självändmål att sälja. Varje försäljning av statens egendom ska kunna motiveras på ett vettigt stätt. Och framför allt, den kritiska nyckelfrågan: Hur ska sedan försäljningskomsterna användas?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u28	Mr President! State ownership policy must take into account that the common good belongs to everyone. The government must remember this important principle when making decisions on state ownership. The Christian Democratic Parliament does not oppose sensible ways of reforming the state's corporate governance and is open to new ways of creating growth. However, the common property of Finns should not be sold lightly or a state-owned company donated to venture capital investors. Ownership policy has not always been successful. Over the past 25 years, the State has sold productive assets worth more than EUR 17 billion. Has this money created new growth and jobs? Very little. The sale of Kemira GrowHow significantly increased the prices of fertilizers from Finnish farmers. Fortum’s partial sales brought EUR 1.6 billion to the treasury, but as a result the State has lost nearly ten times the value increase and received dividends. At the beginning of the year, we witnessed how venture investors function when the electricity network company Caruna significantly increased its consumer prices. The sale and privatisation of state property have a price and its price has been paid by ordinary Finnish taxpayers. Mr President! The Government Resolution states five bases for state ownership. It is easy to agree on these five bases. When examining the property of the State, it is necessary to define precisely and consistently which compartment of ownership belongs to it. Special care must be taken at the point when the ownership is abandoned. Caruna is a good example of what happens when a natural monopoly company is sold. Financial interests should not be underestimated. In Sweden, significant sales of state assets have been made in recent decades, which has led to a halve of government revenues from ownership since 2006. Now Sweden is considering buying back companies. Income from state ownership is also important in Finland. Their reduction is reflected in the need for tax increases, which is certainly not the aim of this government. It is obvious that ownership transferred to the development company envisaged by the Government is intended to be put in place for sale. It is reasonable to ask whether it makes sense to sell a significant share of a profitable company that is important for security of supply, such as Neste. Cutting the mail in this way would require a more detailed discussion. The sale of Altia is not without problems, not to mention the security of supply aspect of Arctia. It is legitimate to ask whether a state development company is the right way to generate growth or whether the state should rather create better conditions for channelling private funding, such as crowdfunding, to growth companies. Mr President! The Decision sets out changes to the remuneration system and social responsibility of the management of state-owned companies. The requirements for country-by-country reporting and the abolition of tax planning are good and worthwhile. It is important that the state actively monitors how the requirements are implemented in practice. Overly high fees and options for corporate managers have provoked bitterness, while workers have been made redundant at the same time. Would it be appropriate to change the remuneration system for the management of state-owned companies? In the view of the Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, instead of the additional profits generated through redundancies, companies' management should be rewarded for social responsibility, job creation and long-term turnover growth. The bonus would be based on the number of jobs created by the company and specific bonuses for the employment of young people. The property of the state belongs to all Finns. It is up to the government to take care of it so that we can leave more than the debt burden to future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u29	I now give Mr Sipilä the floor for five minutes. After that speech, it seems that there will be a shorter speech by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and then there will be a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u30	Mr President! Thank you for the debate. I am sure I will interpret it quite correctly if I say that there is a great deal of consensus in this Chamber on this decision of principle in corporate governance, and I accept this with gratitude. Some things have come up here that clearly require further discussion, and then there are the answers to them. First of all, several of you raised the term "pigs". Congressman Laukkanen, who's chopping up the Post? No such decisions have been made, but perhaps something could be said about this word of chopping. After all, breaking up companies often means that there is a spin-off, a business that can develop better than somewhere inside the company. For example, Neste, which used to be one with Fortum, is today an 11 billion trading company, a very profitable company, and the personnel are very satisfied with the company. Outotec is another example, which is a mining-focused company and is increasingly working on the renewable energy side. Tikkurila is one example of this. These are three examples of state-owned companies. I would certainly not take this method out of the toolbox either, that some part of the companies are going to develop independently and separately. This word stirs up false impressions. Then there's this parliamentary hearing. We will have parliamentary boundaries, i.e. these boundaries of companies in the context of the second amending budget, to be dealt with here. But what has not been discussed is the Ownership Steering Act, which will also require changes. This new one-third strategic ownership limit will require a change in the law, and the role of the development company will also require a change in the law. They will be submitted to Parliament in the autumn. And then from this export company. Representative Ihalainen, an interesting idea, I've been going through it, but I wouldn't be a company of this Team Finland function, but this export activity is typically a core competence area for companies. There are also a large number of private operators operating as consultants in the region. Companies know how to make export rings and so on. I believe that by stepping up this Team Finland activity, we can respond to this contribution. Congressman Karimäki, you asked about Arctia. We will make it possible to strengthen companies for future investments. This is the reason for the change in Arctia's ownership limit. Congressman Arhinmäki, you brought up Fortum. We also have companies whose current situation would require the State to capitalise significantly more because of the company’s bad situation. So there are certainly situations in which ownership decisions have been made both successfully and unsuccessfully in history, but it is a little difficult to make those assessments afterwards. Representative Karimäki, Solidium also has the task of protecting and defending long-term ownership. Why doesn't it invest in a new one? Because it's been taken away. It is now envisaged that Solidium will also be better used for the very purpose you mentioned. Congressman Ihalainen, from this development company. Its main task is to bring the change in ownership structure to this toolbox. Both capitalization and the development of companies can be done there, as I mentioned a few examples. Mr Haglund and Mr Arhinmäki asked about funding key projects. This development company can also be a tool for it. In each budget, we decide how to raise the budget with property income. Property income is dividends, capital repayments, sales. The most important part of this year's budget comes from the sale of Patria's share, In the case of liquid, security of supply can be guaranteed by a third of the ownership. It is guaranteed by law and by contract. We're running out of time. Maybe I'll answer that Post thing later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u31	Minister Soini, two minutes, from a good place chosen by the minister himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u37	I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button. And the answers at this stage are one minute long. — I give the first response to Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u38	Mr President! The Prime Minister pointed out that this Team Finland was as if it were to be incorporated. We don't think that way. We are thinking of a new company, a stand-up company, of our small and medium-sized enterprises to support exports and to strengthen networking, and it should be carefully thought about that in the future. As far as the development company is concerned, it is above all our concern that it does not just become a sales company like this, which grabs and wonders how the state property can be sold, but a genuine development company. I hope we go that way. I would therefore like to ask you whether you are prepared to support the fact that the staff have the opportunity to elect a representative if they so wish to be elected to the boards of companies. It would be very important in many respects. And do you consider this possible for yourself?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u39	Mr President! Although I heard an interesting history review from Secretary of State Soin, when I listened to those speeches from the parliamentary groups, the main thing that occurred to me was that these big lines, which are now included in the government's ownership control policy, have a very united view here in Parliament. If you take the role of Parliament in this development company, or in ownership management in the future better, you have the impression that it is quite widely supported that there will be a advisory board supporting ownership steering. The second, which has received a lot of support here, is the principle that taxes are paid where that result is made and, on the other hand, that remuneration must be fair but reasonable. That is why I would like to see – when there are certain small things here, and certain details, different views, but there is a consensus on the big line – that the opposition can also leave openly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u40	Mr President! As far as this development company is concerned, we do not, in a way, know what it is doing to each company. Parliament, as it were, would give the power to sell in this second amending budget, and then we would no longer know what these development targets are. We wouldn't know who they're selling to, what they're selling, what the store's after. Mr Haglund's question about how to use the funds that will be released was indeed justified. But I will answer Minister Soin for this tax trail and owner guidance. After all, it was at the request of the Green Ministers that country-specific reporting became the responsibility of state capitalized companies and that instructions were made. Since our departure from the government, the guidance has been found to be too inadequate and it is now hoped that it will be updated. Are you now committed to updating in the Board of Directors — the Ownership Steering Department would specify —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u41	Mr President! Changes in the ownership boundaries of state-owned companies are not sales decisions. Nothing has been sold by this decision, and the Government decides on any sale of any ownership within the limits approved by Parliament. This parliamentary cooperation in corporate governance is desirable and the Advisory Board responds to that wish. Each parliamentary group can select its best experts and thus influence the Advisory Council. The purpose of the Government is to defend and strengthen Finnish ownership, unlike last season. Prime Minister, is it not precisely through this new corporate governance that we want to aim to increase the long-term value of companies and create a new economic activity in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u42	Mr President! It is known that Minister Soini and the Finns of Peru look to the past and the left to the future. But this was news that Minister Soini looks so far into the past that he leans on the year 24 when Lenin died. We prefer to look at the 21st century. Mr President! Posti is a basic service where profits are made in the largest cities and costs come from sparsely populated areas. These are evened out inside the company. Now the government is willing to sell 49.9% of Posti, and if this leads to splitting, it would mean that cream peeling would come into play, i.e. profitable activities would go to the private sector to make a profit and taxpayers would have to pay for unprofitable activities. This could even lead to a weakening of the universal service principle. For example, five-day mail delivery is absolutely essential for newspapers, for small entrepreneurs. If you think about how badly Posti has already taken care of the employees,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u43	Mr President! Just as Deputy Prime Minister Soini was heining many parts, so I was squeezing my ears quite firmly when Mr Arhinmäki commented and continued to say that the Left Alliance was looking to the future. I feel that the Left Alliance is looking very much at the past and the time of the planned economy with these comments. You said that Fortum and Neste should never have been sold. But it was about that time. There would have been much more dividends. Of course, one might ask whether the new owner, when new owners have come into existence, had any capital — whether the State should have used capital — and whether it had any knowledge that has increased those companies, could it have thought that, in fact, smaller ownership has received more dividends when these companies have grown to a much greater extent than perhaps if they had been purely national. And the second question is that you said that these have been sold to international players. We are trying to get international investments in Finland. Isn't that real venture capital investment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u44	I will give Mr Arhinmäki a reply, and then the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u45	Mr President! You have to look to the future, but you have to learn from the mistakes of the past. We can continue with the list: Kemira GrowHow, I think there was a minister from the United States who sold for a cheap price; Car survey, sold, I think, 59 million, a couple of years later the same company was sold out for hundreds of millions, I think there was a minister from the United States; the Digita network. So it's worth watching where we've failed and learning from those mistakes. This is important if we are to be able to make a sensible policy in the future. We do not want the economy to which you refer, Mr Jaskari. We want to make sure that we have national property and that we have key companies in the hands of the public through the state, and that we have long-term access to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u46	Now, and, of course, before the Prime Minister's speech, Mr Haglund and Mr Laukkanen — I am sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u47	Tack, Herr Talman, please! Prime Minister, to this role of our decision-makers: if you could open it a little in your reply, because at least my own experience is similar to the fact that this role of our decision-makers, for example, as a member of the Government with regard to Solidium, has been somewhat unclear. Now there may be a new parliamentary body. Then this development company and the role of decision-makers in it — how are they managed, what is the role, role and role of our decision-makers? In other words, if you could give us a little insight into this whole, because I think it's pretty crucial whether or not we can do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u48	Mr President! I'm very grateful to the Prime Minister for not cutting anything up. I'm sure this sentence will go down in political history. Now that Sweden has started to buy back the shares it has sold from its companies and has openly admitted that selling them has been a major mistake, and this is particularly justified by the fact that they want to secure security of supply and strengthen it, I wonder what the point is in selling Arctia. It does not need any strengthening or external ownership; it is doing very well on its own: it is producing a great result that the state is getting a share all the time, and it pays for all the investment in its own income funding. I don't quite understand the idea of why we have to sell it. What added value does this bring? I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u49	And now, Prime Minister, about two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going through these answers and I'm going back to that Post thing. Representative Ihalainen, the representation of the staff: here in principle the Government, the State, wants to promote the representation of the staff as part of local agreement and encourage local agreement. Mr Karimäki, this has been done in the past, i.e. Parliament decides on the limits of ownership, and then the Government has the power to act within these limits. Representative Louhelainen, from this development company: That is precisely the idea that this development will bring value to the companies and value increase can be used for two purposes, key projects and the creation of a new one. This is the basic idea. In fact, this answers Mr Haglund's question in part. This decision-making mechanism is very well described there in the principle decision. But to this question, how do we then know, in the target company — this is a good question — how to act in the best possible way. Here is the idea of going to target companies to get the best possible board composition, then it was partly civil servants, but as a rule it would be external experts. Mr Laukkanen, I have to say again that no decision has been taken to split up. But I will certainly not take away from the toolbox the fact that companies cannot go on developing in such a way that some companies go on their own development path, and there are many good examples of this. Well, then to that Post and Mr. Arhinmäki's concern about the Post. Firstly, this listing for Post has now been raised as one option. We have not made any such decisions in the Post, we want to have this debate first in peace. Posts have been listed worldwide and in Europe a lot. In Great Britain, for example, at the time of listing 150,000 employees became owners. Several of these listings have been made. Posti is facing a very large transformation, digitalisation is changing the market, and this action under the service obligation There is only a very small part of the total activity in the post office. Postal services have the opportunity to develop a lot here in the private market, where private people are currently operating. The post office has many of the key competences that I mentioned in that speech, including their connection to each of us’s home doors. With regard to the concern that the position of the staff would somehow be worse off when the company is admitted to the stock exchange, I will now use this Neste as an example. 88% of liquid personnel are ready to recommend the company to someone else. There were 17,000 summer job applications this year, which shows that a majority state-owned listed company is attractive
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u51	All right, that was about two minutes, or a little bit more. The debate is now being opened not only to the users and ministers of group speeches, but also to other representatives, and I now give two minutes' reply. — — — — First up, Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u52	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we must thank the government for certain things in this regard as a whole. Recruitment and dismissal are heading in the right direction, in the direction that the previous government started to take. Social responsibility is also on the way with these records. Fingrid continues the policy that I, as the Minister of Finance, for example, did to strengthen the ownership of the State or of those close to the State. The same can be said of this parliamentary negotiating body. It will hopefully play a major role in this definition of ownership policy in the future, and I really hope that it will not remain, as it were, merely to monitor the Government's activities, but that it will have real significance, parliamentary importance, in taking these matters forward. Mr President! On the basis of this debate, there is still some concern about the role of this development company and, in particular, about it — you yourself say in these papers that this is a very big change — why the government is giving up more than half of Neste, which is a very central company in terms of security of supply, the ownership of shares, or majority ownership, which gives a completely different voice. As you yourself say in your own motion, if you have control of the company, then the Government, as the owner, requires that the orders that come from there be observed and the board of directors carry out. You say that if you have minority ownership, then the demands of the Board of Directors will not be implemented unconditionally, but that every board of directors of the company will take account of the wish, not necessarily. Why are you giving up this power in such a central security company as Neste Corporation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u53	Mr President! This rather strong criticism of the Left Alliance and the Greens and the SDP a little, would you say, the hypocritical concern about the sale of state ownership is not really credible. However, all of these parties are responsible for Fortum's sales of the electricity network, which operates Now, in strategically important companies — including Finnair, Posti, Gasum, Fingrid — the state retains a majority. And as far as Neste is concerned, when Mrs Rinne raised it specifically as a question of security of supply, that security of supply, in my opinion, is not in any way problematic for this liquid, because in such a situation that liquid is needed in matters of security of supply, the reserves of the liquid are still available, whether it is owned by 30% or more than 50%. This is for your information to Mr Rinnes. But, Prime Minister, digitality is the big thing that is involved in all the state's key projects, including the war and traffic and so on, so that there will not be another Caruna — and now that there is also a Minister for Transport there, he too can respond. Has it been considered how to build, and in particular what is the outcome of this construction in terms of the fibre network? How does the government intend to align this line so that there will not be such a private monopoly on the fibre network?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u54	Mr President! I do not believe that populist speaking the modified truth is part of the ministerial box. That is why I would like to ask Minister Soin: do you really not remember that the practice of state-owned majority-owned companies reporting on their tax trail was implemented specifically during the last government term of the Green Ministers Pekka Haavisto and Heidi Hautala? After the Greens left the government last season, last season the sitting government issued instructions on how to report, and this reporting was unfortunately very incomplete. We Greens have called for this report to be corrected, supplemented, both in the last period and now in this period. Prime Minister Sipilä, you promised that the government would sharpen its efforts to improve the reporting of state-owned companies, but are you really going to do so by abandoning this principle of materiality, which today, as it were, prevents the data of different companies from being comparable? Are you going to demand accurate, detailed country-by-country reporting that would enable what you promised us to do, namely that companies pay their taxes in the country where they operate and that the tax revenue can actually be monitored better than at present?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u55	Mr President! I would have intervened in this SDP proposal on export companies as a kind of model. For example, we on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and also on the government side, have been thinking about increasing exports of small businesses, but one model has clearly been that there should also be guarantees for exports from smaller companies. Now they're just for bigger companies. In my opinion, for example, when funds are being made available for state companies or elsewhere, perhaps projects of this kind should be directed towards supporting export guarantees for small companies. There is no need for a separate company. How does the Prime Minister feel about this kind of solution?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u56	Mr President! I think it is imperative, with satisfaction, to say that we are trying to invest in growth companies and, therefore, to apply for funds to enable us to grow. But in February I presented the Prime Minister with an alternative that we could really put the balance sheet to work. We have an asset of EUR 4.4 billion in Senate property, which, by using it as a guarantee for a loan, could really get a big pot of money: we could make the current activity an extension and the gap where the industrial investment is being financed, get an element that could also take a risk so that risk financing could be granted on the basis of a report approved by Tekes. I would like to stress that, since this is a business, it is now, if the government is afraid of taking up this state debt, that it is forced to say that any growth funding that has been lent through this would not be in the debt of public finances and, on the basis of the EU, would not be regarded as Finland's sovereign debt. I encourage the use of such elements, which do not increase government debt but give opportunities to fund and grow growth companies. That would be a sensible policy in the sense that if we get levers in any way, that: Through Tekes, good fruit can become industrial activities,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u57	Mr President! In fact, throughout the winter and spring, the opposition has made huge accusations that the government is privatizing Finland, putting it in order to sell it. I've been wondering why. Now I've got it. That's because every time you've come to the government, you've actually sold. Here I have a good record that over the last 25 years the SDP has sold more than 15 billion dollars, almost 15 billion dollars in the Greens, almost 13 billion in the left-wing League's reign. You too, the Left Alliance, have had the rate of more than one billion a year every time you have been in the government. It is also very valuable that this Prime Minister's announcement and the entire corporate governance system have been introduced. This dispels the fears among citizens about privatisation and corporate activity. It is clearly stated here that, in so far as state property is to be sold in the future, it is to be used primarily for the development of a new one. In the past, my governments too, especially my number one government, used sales revenue to shorten the debt. Later, especially during the last parliamentary term, they were used only to finance consumption expenditure, with some minor exceptions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u58	Mr President! The SDP itself does not object to the sale of assets when it occurs to a reasonable need or it renews ownership to produce new things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u59	Mr President! Firstly, this proposal by Mrs Myllykoski on the financing of Tekes: the intention certainly was sincere, but unfortunately it is a very Greek way of doing so if we were to assume that the debt to taxpayers is all right as long as it circumvents the EU's obligations. After all, the government has no difficulty in obtaining the loan money, not when we want to increase the funding of Tekes, which is necessary in itself, and there is no need to recycle it by pledgeing the Senate's funds. That, in a way, a certain logic should be followed. Arhinmäki spoke here about the need to have national property. I agree, but at the moment I think we have too much random state property, and that is what this proposal is about here today. We have been born historically, for quite the right reasons, often in a virgin market, with state contributions, which now operate as a general rule in a competitive market with perhaps a strategic interest. When Rinne asked why Neste can be abandoned to 34% and no other company, it is worth reading these definitions of strategic interest: If, in terms of security of supply, the oil refining and distribution capacity in all circumstances is to be safeguarded, it is a very large minority and our legislative powers. If it were a natural monopoly, then, I personally think it is worth keeping it in public majority ownership, and that is exactly what this proposal is going in this direction. In my opinion, these definitions could still be clarified as to how they are recorded today. Alanko-Kahiluoto told me about the requirements for tax reporting. I agree with that, and the government's proposal is also based on the fact that we can show direction when the market is moving in some direction. However, I would be rather careful not to create permanent cost differences between state-owned listed companies and those who are purely market-owned. Otherwise, all you have to do is put pressure on those who are not taxpayers to do better. In the end, the most important thing is whether there is a clear understanding of the circumstances in which the state's ownership in new companies is taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u60	Now I'd like to ask for some space for Congressman Henrikson. He has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u61	Värderade Talman! Väsentligt i den ox agarstyrningsdebatten är just det vad som är tanken: Vart vill vi nå? är det så att man snabbt vill få finansiering för spetsprojekten är det en sak, men vill man ha en långsiktig strategist som är hållbar är det en let sak. Jag tror att regeringen nu eftersträvar lite både och, det verkar som så, och kanske inte alldeles lla det Heller, men det ska sägas klart ut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u62	Mr President! The characteristic feature of this debate has so far been quite a sense of unity that the government's corporate governance paper, the decision in principle, is at least a step in the right direction and is reasonably good in substance. Here's some good architecture. This is clearly this kind of moderate reform alignment in the spirit of social responsibility. I also welcome the fact that, after all, there has not been any oppression here, at least in the past, of excessive policy-making. It is a delicacy, of course, to revel in past politics, because it is full of mistakes that we have all made, but it does not help at all to blame them in the spirit of others. You have to learn. It's true. After all, state ownership, especially in this situation, can be a rather firm lever for achieving or speeding up the economic transition. In that sense, this development company — that idea is absolutely essential in this paper — has a lot to do, and it also seemed to have the most issues to do with it. This country needs jobs and jobs, better employment. That's where the development company can play a big role. Creating a new one is everything. The second point I would like to make here is this highlighted position of the idea of social responsibility, which is linked in every way to taxes, personnel policy or, in general, to a range of reasonable messages for owners, entrepreneurs and little for everyone. Indeed, social responsibility is one of the most serious problems in Finland at the moment. Indeed, state ownership can also show a good new way in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u63	Mr President! Mr Kääriäinen, as he has done up to now, gave a very important and powerful speech on many aspects. I say to Mr Vanhanen that all governments, including his government, have sold state property. There must be different ideas as to what they are being used for. This drop of strategic interest into 33.4 — that is what worries us. It must be behind a really hard decision to go down there, in this uncertain world, when the importance of Neste may even be more significant in the future than Fortum's, considering the problems of the future. Then the government's own programme says that we are developing a pedestal society, a pedestal economy, right? After all, our proposal is a concrete proposal to set up a new pedestal company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u66	I now give one minute's speaking time to the ministers in the order in which their name was pronounced out here after the last debate. So first Minister Berner, then Minister Soini, then Minister Lindström, and then to the Prime Minister as a bonus speaker, then two minutes — for the first three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u67	Mr President! I will answer Mr Turuse's question regarding the fibre network. It is clear that digitalisation affects all of our changes and enables us to undergo a major transformation. It may also be good to be aware that in time all of this has been made possible by the separation of Posti and Tele. The telecommunications market was created, which enabled mobile competence, which has actually created digitalisation, and this, however, raised the Finnish recession even then in the 1990s. The spectrum policy has provided almost comprehensive wireless connections, but our optical fibre connections are not quite at the desired level. This is what we are working on three measures. Firstly, in cooperation with telecommunications operators, we are seeking a broadband investment programme that we will be able to provide information on by 31 May. A clear effort is being made to reduce permit processes for these investments, which will also provide a better programme during this May. And in July, a law will come into force which will enable the joint construction of energy, transport and communications networks, which will also stimulate investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u68	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Ihalainen, who, in a beautiful way, brings the best values of the nobles of the workers to this debate. It's very valuable. The President, Mr Rinte, also spoke well. Then the Greens asked if the truth had been forgotten. Of course it's not. You should have stayed in the government to monitor these matters and not left the government, especially because of nuclear power, which went through even though you left. You might want to stay on the board. They're gonna make a difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u69	Mr President! This security of supply has been mentioned here a few times, or quite a few times, and the fact that you are under the TEM, this Security of Supply Centre, perhaps a few words about it — that is what we were talking about. Of course, the government is interested in strategic ownership and interest. I understand that this spring there has been a government proposal 55 relating to security of supply, i.e. the storage of imported fuels, in which this directive is to be filled with 90 days of imported fuel. I would not be so worried — it does not mean that we are being overly concerned about this, but I would not be so concerned about that. The Security of Supply Centre is constantly monitoring the situation, and they have this kind of continuity management under work, i.e. identifying risks, disruptions or dependencies. These are, of course, conversations with the people at the Security of Supply Centre. I believe that this side will be taken care of despite this change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u70	Secretary Sipilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u71	Mr President! Congressman Rinne, to this parliamentary council. In fact, there will be four such tasks: corporate ownership policy, then corporate governance policy, parliamentary boundaries and fourthly, acting as a conversation partner between the Minister of Corporate Governance and the Corporate Governance Unit. For example, if there will be questions about Parliament’s borders or companies in the future, you will know who the persons to whom the discussion will take place. Why should we give up the liquid? In fact, Mr Lindström has already responded to this, and after careful consideration it was concluded that the security of supply for liquid fuels can be achieved by means of legal requirements, contracts and then by means of ownership of this third. Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto, these requirements for companies are set out here on pages 31 to 32 of the decision in principle. There are a lot of demands there, just the ones you mentioned. Then there's Mr. Jaskar's question. I agree, so I do not see the creation of this export company as a role for the State, but rather as a role here in the platform economy, where there is an enabling role: then there will be new private business. Mr Myllykoski, I do not see the problem of guarantees, for example, in this financing of Tekes. Rather, we have little problem with the fact that there is a fairly high risk of responsibilities in the government balance sheet, about 40 billion, I think. But I promise you from this sitting that that portion of the Senate will also be cleared up, how to make the balance sheet better available for it. Mr Mykkänen, I have mentioned, for example, this social transport route, the information related to it. Owner's border, Congressman Henriksson: How can we be safe? It can prevent changes in the articles of association, directed share issues,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u72	And now let us move on to the two-minute speeches of the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u73	Mr President! When the value of Finnish state companies in relation to GDP is highest in Europe, it is quite clear that the state must have a clear ownership policy and, as society changes, the ownership policy must also be able to live in time. Of course, there are certain fundamentals that cannot under any circumstances be slipped, but lazy and passive ownership must be made more active in such a situation. But with regard to these development companies, this is a well-founded question: how to ensure transparency in all circumstances?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u74	Mr President! State-owned companies also play an important social role. For example, the state railways make it possible to travel throughout the country, or at least in the old days. In 2015, state-owned VR paid dividends to the State amounting to EUR 100 million. You can only sell the property once. Is it worth letting the milking cow out of hand now? Prime Minister, in your presentation, you said: 'It is not acceptable to minimise taxation using tax havens, for example'. And Secretary of State Soini here accompanied this same good thing in his own speech. Do you have any concrete legislative means of not using tax havens in future in these companies, or just these requirements? But is this, in the end, just a wish thrown into the air?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u76	Mr President! These state ownership policies are absolutely brilliant, which have been highlighted today. As has been noted, many fathers have already been found in the SDP line. At least the representatives of Ihalainen and Rinne have signed this well, at least for their part. Here, in particular, this development company is very interesting, how the development company will gain more expertise there, and how we will also get more outside funding there, so that these companies can be developed. What is very interesting is this lifting up and strengthening of the so-called spin-offs, creating new jobs. This transparency comes through this negotiating board. I hope that in this House, too, this debate will improve as we have more understanding, more expertise then both in the committees and here in the Chamber of Parliament to hold this debate. Social responsibility is a very important issue. That concern of the demars about exports is absolutely essential and about the way it is done, but that is certainly not the task of this development company. We were on a committee trip in Mexico too, and we wondered how Finnish companies could hold on to such big work as the reform of the Mexican telecommunications network, for example. We have our own Nokia network company at a good stage there, which will catch up with it, but how will we then get enough of those other residents and others in this consortium? It is, of course, important to get this community between these companies. This is where Team Finland has done a good job, but I think it should
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u77	Mr President! The state owner must be active and responsible. It is good that the government on such a reward side continues the path that the previous government set out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u80	Mr President! Many representatives have asked just how this 33% shareholding is sufficient to guarantee ownership interests. At least I remember the case in Espoo when Espoo’s Electricity was taken to the stock market already years ago — I was not authorized at the time, but in any case — the decision-makers in Espoo were finally frustrated that when there was no more 33% of ownership left, it had no meaning or effect on things, and then they wanted to get rid of the rest of it. I would like to hear clarification on how to secure a strategic interest. Secondly, I would like to ask about this parliamentary negotiating body: the negotiating councils are, as we know, reasonably powerless, and many negotiating boards are such that information is given, as it were, afterwards, so how has the role of this parliamentary negotiating body been thought? So, of course, we are in favour of this, because all parliamentary bodies are basically good things, but I do not know whether it is enough to guarantee this parliamentaryism in the management of owners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u81	Mr President! In this long-term debate, and with the comments of several ministers, it has certainly become clear that this reform is well-founded throughout. Firstly, there is this structure, which is aimed specifically at giving the state a consistent and responsible way of managing its companies and at giving up this monetary mentality that has been oppressed in some past. I am not going to comment on these detailed arguments about which company sales were right or wrong at any time, because it does not concern my own group, but, in general terms, we are very pleased with this principle, which I have just mentioned: the money will cease, and certainly will no longer be subjected to this kind of ideological or exorbitant privatisation, which, for some reason, has been tending to be the case in left-wing governments. The second, which we very much welcome, is, of course, this very strong part of social responsibility and value management in this reform. It is significant that bonuses are calculated — a significant example at such a time that management, smooth hands are involved. It is significant that compensation for dismissal is calculated, even halved. These are very clear signs of what is the policy in the spirit of time and what kind of example the government wants to set with its ownership. Finally, after everything the government has been criticised for, for example, not caring about tax evasion, a very welcome example is this clear ban on aggressive tax evasion and the publication of a tax trail. This reform is in fact crying out for an earlier shortage. It is very interesting to note that it was only this basic bourgeois government that really did.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u82	Mr President! However, I welcome the fact that a very broad consensus has been reached in this Chamber on this ownership policy. I take it that the Social Democrats, too, largely accept this, even though, as it were, a little criticism is being made there. The Green Left is then its own story, which has been heard here. What has been rational and strategic ownership in Kekkonen's time is no longer that today. That is why it is obvious that the ownership policy needs to be updated. And there are still strategic holdings in which the state must be actively involved, and there are also companies in which the state is in favour of increasing its ownership, and so is the case with Fin-grid and Gasum. Then there are those companies in which we can reduce ownership but still retain majority ownership, and then there are those in which this 33.4% is sufficient for strategic ownership. I think that in a stock exchange world where shareholdings are quite divided, the 33.4 % share is quite a significant share of the company. Then, of course, when the time comes for sales, we are now giving a sales mandate, and when that sales decision is made, it will naturally be influenced by what has to be priced and how that money is going to be put forward so that it becomes a new growth and, consequently, an activity in support of Finland's economy and employment development. I would also like to raise this issue of halving the compensation for dismissal. I also see that, just as Mr Terho said just now, it is in the spirit of time. Mr Kopra, whom I very much appreciate in these matters, made an important speech in this regard, in my view, that this is also being done in private-owned companies. This is in line with it and contributes to demonstrating the social responsibility of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u83	Mr President! Representative Soini, with his rather colorful speech, launched this kind of historical review discussion. Of course, I remember something about history, and when I listened to his speech, it occurred to me that this line by the Finns of Peru has developed from the time that Pekka Vennamo, the predecessor of Soin, appointed himself Director General of Post and Telecommunications. Both the handling style and the attitude to things seemed quite different. But I agree with Mr Kääriäinen's big idea that this history may not be what we are here for, and history is not why we have been elected here, but that we have been chosen to make decisions on the future of state companies and then, in concrete terms, both to guide principles and to decide on companies. And when I listened to these opening speeches, it somehow occurred to me that there would be an opportunity for this sort of Sipilä —Idealan line. That if the Prime Minister The good principles of Sipilä — the diverse use of state property, social responsibility and also parliamentary inclusion — will be included and then, I would venture to hope, from the list of representatives of Ihalainen, the idea of keeping Neste and Post in the current situation and keeping them firmly as state companies, so I believe that both employment and services in this country will be better managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u84	Mr President! After all, there is a clear change of thinking in this government's corporate governance policy that state property is no longer being sold just because of the flow of money and the budget, but also because of the desire to create a new one. It is therefore possible that there will also be new state-owned companies in this country, and that is what this future development company is, a whole new state-owned company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u87	Mr President! This is for the first time really a very assembled and finely prepared owner-political steering mechanism or really this kind of entity at the time that I am here, for about thirty years, following these. It's good to thank you for this. A few things about the past. Optimisation systems for state-owned companies were created in the late 1990s. The Lipponen Government and then the Minister, I think, was it, Kalliomäki or Mönkäre, approved by the state companies. When President Pekkarinen became Minister for Trade and Industry in 2003, he first removed these options and went in a slightly more sensible direction. And now we are going very far in the right direction when these are corrected or put at a level that is acceptable to the public. Secondly, there has been talk of Fingrid. The old government redeemed Fingrid more than 50% to the state, so that it is today, just as Gasum, a majority-owned company, both are. Now they're secured, 50.1% to the government. This is very important. With regard to liquid, it can be said that its ownership is very widely dispersed and, when it is dispersed, this 33.4 percent share does give the State a fairly certain — it can almost say that a certain, real — decision-making power in the company. On the other hand, in the case of Neste, as in the case of Posti, legislation can regulate security of supply and service obligations in such a way that it is in the hands of Parliament, and in this sense this strong opposition is perhaps unnecessary. Finally, this issue of tax havens
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u88	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä raised good things in his speech, such as the idea that taxes will be paid in the country where income is generated, tax havens and aggressive tax planning will be treated negatively. I also liked this phrase that restraint in the remuneration of management will be taken into account in the future. Thank you for these entries. Then, to the actual question, and as an introduction to it — on national capitalism, I would like to ask — when you said in your speech that 'you want to strengthen national capitalism by encouraging staff to own the shares of their employers' company'. This is a very good objective, and now my question is: is it already known at this stage what the means might be, how to move this popular capitalism forward? I would also like to extend the question of how to extend national capitalism in the first place, even in cases where people do not work in a state-owned company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u89	Mr President! According to the press reports, Prime Minister, you have proposed the use of the money from the sale of state-owned companies to set up a new state-owned company to develop information systems in particularly social areas. As such, the problem that this new state-owned company should solve is real: if the information systems of organisations providing social welfare and health services cannot work together quickly, the social welfare reform will not materialise in practice. It's a fact. Information technology is on a critical path to social welfare reform. But is the new state-owned company the right answer to this problem, especially now that the introduction of Kela's Kanta services is progressing rapidly in municipalities, and especially now that similar companies have already been set up in the provinces to do the same thing in practice? As we know, we should be ready in the beginning of 2019, that is, two and a half years from now. That is why I would ask: do you believe that two and a half years will be enough to start a new company, let alone to develop new information systems?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u90	Mr President! Smart owner always looks far into the future. When you listen to this conversation, it is more like memoirs. When you look at the 2020s, there's a lot of things we can't know, but there's a lot of things we can know. We talk a lot about digitalisation, we talk a lot about the development of electronic transport, renewable energy — the question is whether we are now in 2016 preparing for the world where the world is going anyway. We have just mentioned Mexico by Mr Jaskar and the Bay of Pirtti and its potential for both ict and clean energy. It is wonderful that the Centre's representative, Pirttilahti, has adopted what the SDP actually put forward. The SDP suggested that we have an operator who is able to conclude that international agreement and who is the size of an actor who has the muscle to put that name on paper and say that we are handling this. This development company does not answer that question, just as neither does the government programme. Therefore, the SDP has put forward its own stand-alone or community option. The French have succeeded, among other things, in doing so, why should we not succeed? Do you believe, Prime Minister, that Finland will really rise with the current Team Finland operating model? Where are export delegations, individual companies? Often too small do the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u91	I would like to give two more speeches, Mrs Hautala and Mr Arhinmäki, and then the Prime Minister will be allowed to reply again for a change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u92	Mr President! This change in state ownership policy largely focuses on this development company’s future. This section of the bioeconomy has been highlighted in the Government Programme, and I see that both Neste, Vapo and Altia are such companies that have a lot to offer on the side of this bioeconomy, when this development company has one opportunity to change the ownership structure. With regard to Altia, it could be said that it has a very large regional economic impact. It processs more than 200 million pounds of barley from about 50,000 field hectares and has about 2,000 contract farmers. When Brown-Forman, an American company, acquired this Finnishia brand from Altia, they obtained a right of first purchase in the Kosken Ear factory, and it will go off if ownership arrangements are made in the company. This should then be taken into account in the future. I am also concerned about this role of the parliamentary council and what is its real influence on the decisions that have been taken since then. Is it the 33.4% veto there, perhaps, on this negotiating board? That would give us a lot of opportunities for this. Much has been said about postal service obligations and the future. I would see as a very welcome alternative that the postal services in the sparsely populated area should be secured five days a week, because there the newspapers belong to Posti, but there would be a three-day distribution in the densely populated area, where the newspaper house or some other body will then take care of this early stump.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u93	Mr President! Minister Soin reminds me of the character of the Asterix comic book. First he throws slanders out of the ministerial box and then he runs away from the debate. Representative Turunen and Minister Soini, both of them, first suggested that the Left Alliance would have accepted the Caruna trades. Well, that is not true because we opposed them in the government, and Mr Soini almost admitted it in the second speech. I understand that it was a little difficult for Minister Soin to admit, because the Left Alliance had the courage to say that he disagreed and to vote against. The Finns have not done the same in the government, but have accepted one by one the betrayal of all their election promises. But, Mr President, Prime Minister Sipilä was right to speak about the Post and the status of staff. He said that if Postia is privatised, the position of the staff will not be weakened. If you consider how badly Posti has treated its staff during the negotiations, it would not be much worse to treat the staff. So I'm sure you're right about that. Mr President! I brought up the fact that Lipponen's 2nd, Vanhanen 1 and Stubb's government have sold the most — and it is also self-criticism because we were involved in Lipponen's 2nd. But I still believe, Mr Mykkänen, that it may also make sense to give up something to replace it. However, we must quote Mr Lehte, the representative of the right-hand side of the assembly when he is not present, what he said on Thursday during Question Time: "The Finnish State is still likely to receive a ten-year loan at a rate of less than 1%. In the long run, starting new industrial and business activities, for example, on the basis of the ideas developed by Tekes, could be the most productive in economic terms."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u94	Here, ladies and gentlemen, the next item on the list is Mrs Rinne, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, Mr Hoskonen, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Turunen, but before these speeches I will give the floor to the Prime Minister as previously agreed. Two minutes, on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u95	Mr President! I'm going to answer a long list of questions here: Congressman Kivelä asked how to ensure transparency. Buying, selling and setting up a new one is public, transparent decision-making by the Government. Mr Pekonen, important social tasks still lie with companies and are enshrined here in the decision of principle as a strategic obligation for companies. For example, VR has this and the ownership limit for VR is not changed. As far as the part of the tax haven is concerned, this ownership policy obliges companies, that is clear. Representative Pirttilahti, I agree: Team Finland is a good tool as an export promoter, and I think last season a good change was made here, which this government will now continue. Representative Lindtman, one-third ownership of the decision-making of the listed company is of great importance. For example, Ilmarinen's next largest owner is Ilmarinen at 2.56%, then the State Pension Fund at around one per cent and Kela at about one per cent of the company's ownership. Mr Terho, I fully agree with what you said about social responsibility. Representative Heinäluoma, giving birth to a new one usually also requires giving up something. Mr. Kulmun, no new decisions have yet been made. This platform economy has been used as an example and its structure has been transformed into a permissive one. Mr Kiuru, you asked about this in order to strengthen popular capitalism. This refers specifically to listed companies where the tool exists. If Posti goes on the list, I think the staff issue would be very consistent with this. Representative Plant, a very good question and attention on this issue of social services. No decisions have yet been taken. We've got to get moving. 2.5 years is a very challenging, tight timetable for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u96	Mr President! The SDP worked enormously under the leadership of the former minister — or minister by title — Ihalainen, and was completed with this important document like "The Blue and White Ownership Program" under the title "Everything is not for sale". That is why at the moment, for that reason too, we are very interested in the whole of the government. As has been said here, there are quite a lot of things in common here as a whole. There are two issues on which we are concerned, which are still a little open, or quite a lot open, what is going to happen. The first is this change in strategic ownership, especially for Neste. It is still a little open to how security of supply is ensured in all situations, in the same way that I had to assess the decisions made by Fingrid — when trying to sell domestic ownership abroad — how in all situations, from the perspective of security of supply, this minority participation ensures that the instructions of the Board of Directors, the owner's instructions, are taken into account, not only in the nature of the wish, but in the way that the Government's regulations are implemented in that company from the perspective of security of supply. These criteria for minority participation listed in this document are not sufficient for this government to control from the point of view of security of supply. I would like a clear answer to this. And the second is this development company. I think there are great lines of development, creation of new business and new jobs, but I am concerned that, at the moment, when we have no clarity about the funding of these government's key projects, about where that money comes from, will there be so much pressure that this will happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u97	I would like to give the Prime Minister the floor at this stage so that this question can be clarified in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u98	Mr President! First of all, this liquid: The legislation will also oblige Neste's security of supply tasks in the future. There's no way to remove it. The contracts also oblige and it is considered that this plus a third ownership will enable the security of supply task to be carried out. For this development company: So the idea is that by increasing the value of ownership we can use this increase in value for two things. One is funding key projects, the other is creating a new one. And that new creation can be done in existing companies by strengthening their capital structure or by strengthening, for example, the development of separate business activities, the so-called spin-off activities. These are the frameworks, and every year, in connection with the budget debate, we will go over what it is in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u100	And now, ladies and gentlemen, the rest of the speeches are one minute's speaking time, so that everyone can make their speeches more or less within the time limit. — The next item is Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u101	Mr President! It is very important that these corporate governance tax policies are binding on state-owned companies, as the Prime Minister said. We Greens have been driving this for a long time. Representative Kai Mykkänen, who was concerned that this transparent reporting and tax liability could harm state companies, I would like to say that especially state companies are concerned with such social responsibility, ethics, caring for their own social obligations, whether it is in Finland or it is in developing countries, where it is quite fair for those countries to receive the tax revenue that belongs to them. The same applies to Finland. When a mining company operates here, it has to pay its taxes to Finland — a point. With regard to this debate on Finland's state of the art and Finland's state of the art, I would like to say that our Greens view is that it is possible to sell when it is strategically meaningful, which means, for example, that we can create new things for Finnish society,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u102	Mr President! It is good that the ownership policy is being formulated to fit today. It's a very valuable thing. Greater functionality, a clear new direction for state ownership policy is needed in this time period when more work is needed, new jobs, unemployment must be brought down and sovereign debt must be controlled. It is important to note that the balance sheets are now being put to work and, in particular, that the balance sheet is not being put to work for the purpose of making the State’s property self-sale, but that it is being put to work. Secondly, there is the fact that the budget for this is not being made up but that it is developing new ones, including through its development company. It is important to note that these issues are now aligned and are the strong position of the government. Let no one return to this in this sense, though in the sense of misunderstanding. I'd better admit it's the case. In this debate, the decisions taken during Urho Kekkonen have been mentioned, which was taken by the state company at the time. It was a very wise policy during the time when Finland was being built. Finland rose out of the swamp, paid its debts
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u103	Now the representatives of Zyskowicz, Turunen, Krista Kiuru and Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u104	Mr President! I am very concerned about the crisis awareness of the leaders of Finnish listed companies. Helsingin Sanomat reported at the beginning of April that last year the earnings of directors of listed companies rose threefold compared to the development of Finnish average earnings. The economy here said a few weeks ago: "The wage stop avoids the Finnish leaders." These South Beach hosts, who are the ones who are most demanding patience and self - sacrifice from employees, have made sure that they are not affected by such restraint and restraint. How is this possible? This can be done in such a way that the directors of listed companies actually decide on each other's salaries. Ultimately, of course, it is the owners, and it has been said that politicians only talk but do nothing. In fact, the state has tightened the remuneration in its corporate governance guidelines every time these guidelines have been renewed in recent years, and that is a good thing. We now have to hope that other owners, such as pension companies, will come to this fair front, even though the earnings of the managers of these pension companies depend in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u105	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki, how the Left Alliance worked in the previous government is a bit like, you could describe it in such a way that we go without permission to go to the Mother's Aunt Hanna's cookie jar. The kids go together, and one child says I don't want to take an unauthorized cookie, but nevertheless, with the other kids, he takes the cookie. After eating, when other children say it was delicious, one child says it didn't taste good, for me it didn't taste good. But he did it anyway. In other words, your actions in the previous government will not remove or diminish the responsibility for doing so, because you were there in the government. But at the end of the day, I would like to emphasise cooperation. This state's corporate governance, the ownership policy, is a long-term policy, and that is what we all have in common. That is why I think it is good that this parliamentary committee has been built here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u106	Mr President! Today it has become clear that the government announced a change in ownership policy in two important ways: the abolition of majority ownership — and in the case of Neste, for example, we are very much wondering why this is being done — and secondly, you are suggesting that strategic ownership is no longer important in the areas that are being transferred to the development company. Now, Prime Minister, I ask you, when I also read the idea of Eero Hemivaara, the head of the corporate governance department, an official under your command, of what a development company is, and yes it is a very different development company from what the downtown MPs here interpreted to be a development company. After all, this text says that it is therefore a form of ownership which the state can give up at the appropriate opportunity. It says here that the preferred option is stock exchange listing. These are therefore those companies which have no strategic interest. It has now become clear that the development company is, for example, only a means of either chopping the Post or selling it on the stock market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u107	Mr President! In addition to the fact that we are very close to each other on many issues in these lines of principle, many threats have been raised here, including this Post. I think, however, that from the point of view of the citizens, it does not matter that... The main point, therefore, is that the mail comes and the services work, and whether the State owns 100 % or 50,5 % of the Post, Then a few other threats were raised here in the Greens' group and related to Vapo and Kemijoki and environmental responsibility and whether it will be possible to do so in the future if ownership is abandoned.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u108	Now I will give one more speech, Mr Järvinen, and if the Prime Minister wishes to say a word again, of course to him too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u109	Mr President! This time is marked by the fact that the well-off are getting better and the less well-off are getting worse. The excessive remuneration and bonuses of managers and partly unearned wage increases have fostered a sense of injustice in situations where employees have had to settle for redundancies or almost zero increases. During the last period, the retirement age of business managers was increased and pension benefits were cut. It is a good thing that the same line continues now that the government, in its corporate governance, has decided to cut the redundancy payments for the directors of state-owned companies. Social responsibility should also be promoted more widely. We know that the laws do not have the possibility to limit the salaries of the directors of private listed companies, but I would like to know whether Prime Minister Sipilä, who highlights the message of fairness, has any means in his famous toolbox to curb them. If, for example, the management of the 50 largest private companies decided to commit to zero wage increases, it would have a major positive impact on the competitiveness package and the social contract negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u110	And now the Prime Minister has his last speech, two minutes on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u111	Mr President! Now let's put the balance sheet to real work. This is a major reform. Thank you very much for your unanimous support for this reform. We will change the structure in such a way that it will also allow new birth and development in the future. The development company is exactly what they're filming here. For example, Posti still has a strategic interest. It does not take away from there that part of the company can also be sold, for example, at the time of listing. State-owned companies still have specific tasks, specific roles, and state-owned companies also have a performance obligation and objective. We also need the constant return that companies bring to the state budget. This is an aspect that has not been said. This reform also contains an important reasonable message. I agree exactly with Mr Zyskowicz's wish, and now we are taking concrete steps to ensure that such changes take place. I think I can see that this change has been well received on the market, and I hope that this example will be taken up. Thank you for the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u112	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u113	Madam President! One of the central objectives of the Government Programme is to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. In order to support the plight of agriculture, support has also been promised well since the tractor march and the reduction of unnecessary administration. This government proposal to amend the Chemicals Act is in line with both of these objectives. Farmers are very responsible for securing natural growth, as only a well-managed relationship with nature produces a good harvest. It is therefore justified that a user examination of plant protection products under the conditions of environmental aid is sufficient to remove the problems of rodent pests from the property and warehouses of the farmer's own farm, as set out in the amendment to Article 38 of the draft law. It has therefore been a bit strange for the legislator's logic that farmers should, just in case, distribute pesticides with a high price per kilo on the fields or in the corners of their stocks. On the other hand, I would like to see precision in the future use of the Tukes register. Labelling of the hazardous nature of pesticides and the criteria for the user's authorisation required by Tukes must not be tightened by the interpretation of this amendment of the law from this entry in the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u114	Congressman Viljanen. — And if I may ask, all the meetings outside the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u115	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the Chemicals Act in the light of practical experience in implementing it and in the light of the Biocidal Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The marketing and use of chemicals in Finland is largely regulated by EU regulations, but these biocides can now be regulated by national regulations for a transitional period of 2024. This proposal before us is part of the government's red tape reduction project and is therefore very much to be welcomed. It is clear that clear conditions and procedures must be laid down for the treatment of chemicals, but it is equally clear that these conditions and criteria should not unduly hinder the activities of citizens and entrepreneurs, especially those which are already being controlled and where there have been no problems. Such activities include the use of these biocides in agriculture. This proposal will make it easier for farmers not to face excessive red tape but to reduce the administrative burden in this respect. This is a good thing, a good proposal, and the proposal will improve even further as the committee takes account of the fact that the regulation of companies providing on-farm works will not increase as a result.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u116	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 8/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-17-ps-53.u117	Mr President! The health situation of domestic animals in Finnish agriculture is the best in the world. This good health situation has not come about by chance, but is the result of long-term work. We are, therefore, accustomed to the fact that by taking care of our own affairs, our affairs are and remain in excellent shape, for example, with regard to animal health. Our good animal health is still not threatened from within, our domestic affairs and activities are still in order. Unfortunately, however, this does not prevent the threat from outside our country, in this case African swine fever. African swine fever has already spread close to the borders of our country, and everything must be done to prevent its possible spread to Finland. This is precisely why this bill is very welcome. This amendment to the hunting law allows artificial light to be used for hunting wild boar and raccoon dogs at boar feeding points. This will enable us to prevent the possible spread of African swine fever in the country.
