ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Economic Committee must give its opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u2	Mr President! This bill is about streamlining the permits for planning and construction, and according to the Government Programme, the aim is to facilitate, simplify planning, licensing, permit and promote the functioning of the market. There are reasonable objectives to be supported. I'm going to go over some of the details of this bill. Let's start with that regulation of major trading units. The size limit of the large retail unit now rises from 2000 to 4000 square metres. The use of the general formula will become more diverse. The construction of sparsely populated areas will be facilitated, as already the general formula allows building without a separate design solution even in villages with significant building pressure. Building permits may also be obtained in such areas on the basis of the general formula for residential buildings other than those of two or more dwellings. That's a significant relief for construction in rural areas. The role of the Ely Centres has spoken much in recent years. Now that role of Ely Centres becomes consulting. They will no longer guide the planning of the municipality's use of the territory and the organisation of the construction operation. The supervisory powers of the Ely Centres and the right to appeal are limited only to matters and effects of national or regional importance. Well, free-time residences. It is now easier to change them to permanent housing on the basis of this bill. In the future, the law allows the municipality to identify unplanned areas in its building order where the leisure dwelling can be converted into permanent housing without even requiring an exception decision or a planning solution, and in other areas the municipality will then have the possibility to change that use on request. In site planning areas where we often have in-fill needs — which require changes in planning, and slow planning slows down the possibilities for in-fill — this will be facilitated in such a way that the station plan can be changed gradually in the future. In other words, it can be made with regard to the area in need of construction or infill at any time, and in that way significantly speeds up this formula process. And if the general formula is obviously out of date, then the formula can be drawn up or modified even contrary to the general formula, i.e. it is not necessarily required to change the general formula of its time, but it can be started more quickly. Multiplicity of regulation, the fact that different laws extend to different things and in a different way, has plagued Finns. In general, agricultural and forestry-intensive areas have been identified and landscape work permits have previously been required for quite normal forest management or logging operations. In the future, the permit for landscape work cannot be imposed on logging in agricultural and forestry-intensive areas. In the coastal zone, too, the obligation to carry out a landscape work permit based directly on the law will be abolished and will only be used if the designer of the plan, the municipality, wishes to do so in the future. The construction of agriculture will also be made easier. A design need solution is no longer needed for the farm building needed for agricultural and forestry activities. These include production and storage buildings, animal shelters, machinery for forestry or buildings for the drying and storage of trees. Mr President, the amendments contained in this legislative package which is now being presented. But, of course, this is not all that is done with regard to housing and construction in order to carry out the government program. Due to the review of what has been done and is taking place in other legislative proposals: the strengthening of regional plans at the Ministry of the Environment was abandoned last February. Deviation powers were transferred to municipalities as a whole in April. The process of making the authorisation procedure comprehensive is being prepared in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of Justice has already raised legal fees for complaints since the beginning of this year. One-door services... [President MariaLohela : I'm sorry, Minister Tiilikainen, if you'll excuse me for a moment. There's a lot of extra chatter here now. — Please continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u5	It's possible to talk now. I'm going to ask the members of the debators to report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u6	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen praised the fact that the government is making it smoother and more flexible — I personally see most of these issues in the government proposal as undermining the planned development of communities, weakening the fact that construction and also logging of forests take place in the best possible way for the whole municipality and the whole community. In particular, I am surprised at the government's enthusiasm to favour large commercial entities. Last week we heard Minister Tiilikainen and many members of the government's parliament boasting that the government's energy strategy is an important breakthrough in climate protection. In this area of large-scale commerce, the government is acting in exactly the opposite direction: in practice, it favours the
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u7	Mr President! Construction is controlled in sparsely populated areas by means of a planning need solution, i.e. municipalities define the areas in question in the order of construction. However, the practice has been diverse in municipalities, and in many municipalities construction is effectively prevented in sparsely populated areas. This amendment to the Land Use and Building Act will streamline regulation, but I ask the Minister: how will municipalities be instructed when building systems are being developed, because this practice has been very diverse, and how will it be made fair and equitable at national level for all citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u8	Mr President! With regard to this reform, many alarm bells are ringing. From now on, then, who will oversee the so - called public interest? Who will ensure that municipal planning is legal? The Ely Centres are deprived of this right, and quite frankly it has been said that in the future this supervisory function will be a matter for citizens and NGOs. Can this really be expected of ordinary citizens? The Ely Centres have so far exercised their right of appeal with great restraint. Nine out of ten of these complaints have gone through as such. Does this not indicate that this has been important and necessary? The substance of this complaint is not affected by it, but by its legality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u9	Madam President! There are many points in this government proposal that take the hopes and ideas of the majority of the people forward: promoting smoother governance, entrepreneurship, dismantling of standards, reducing administrative costs, but not forgetting the environmental values, which are then the other aspect of this, and I think that it has been quite well able to combine these partly competing aspects. The role of civil servants and municipalities was already mentioned. Officials also work in the municipalities under official responsibility, have to comply with the law, and there is no alternative. The law is respected, and at least I trust Finnish officials and their expertise. Minister Tiilikainen would still have wanted to see if there were any clarifications or guidelines in this government proposal on the permanent use of leisure accommodation in the zoning areas. It was still a little open.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u10	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister why the general formula cannot be used as a direct basis for building permits in the context of intensive and urban construction, why only rural areas and sparsely populated areas? My second question relates to the impact of the proposal on the steering of the planning system and how the overall steering and control — as Mrs Myller pointed out — will be achieved when the role of the Ely Centres is thus undermined. My third question relates to how you will ensure that beach construction does not get out of hand. Finally, a word of thanks: I thank the government for making the installation of solar panels more uniform and easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u11	Madam President! These reforms of the Government's proposal are very important, and they help to improve the operating conditions of companies, speed up construction and enable municipalities to develop their operations and necessary facilities much more smoothly. The ability of municipalities to react more quickly to the need for construction and the development of regions is greatly improved. The reform will thus give municipalities more decision-making power to develop their own territory, where they are experts in particular, and this is a good thing in terms of land use and construction. I am sure, Minister, this reform is a big deal, but all in all, the Land Use and Construction Act has been built in pieces and has been reformed in pieces, and there was also greater expectation that there would be an overall reform at some point. Personally, I sincerely hope that the next step will be the overall reform of the Land Use and Construction Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u12	Mr President! It is quite clear that these proposed changes, the reforms, are sensible. These provide more opportunities for the regions to strengthen their vitality and so on. But admittedly, Mrs Torniainen raised an extremely important point. This land use and building law has been reformed in quite a number of ways, and I, admittedly, myself, after these reforms, wonder how this land use and building law is going to last in the future. It would be extremely interesting to hear what the Minister thinks about this possibility of a comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Building Law and how to move it forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u13	Värderade Talman! There's a lot of talk here about streamlining and making things easier. However, no mention is made of a better environment or more sustainable urban planning, more sustainable communities. These are not mutually exclusive issues. Admittedly, the fact that it is now a challenge in places with authorisation does not necessarily mean that the removal of requirements is the solution. I also think that the problem is that the municipalities have very different resources. For some, this proposed change is certainly not a problem, for some it may well be. Some, for example, have knowledge of building protection, some do not. You see, Minister? Tiilikainen, that different starting points for municipalities, different sizes, different expertise would be a problem in this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u14	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this presentation and thank you all for this bill. This is a very welcome and desirable proposal. Two points which have now been omitted from this presentation by the Minister: First of all, these small structures and buildings that can be built without a building permit in sparsely populated areas. How is this proposal supposed to take this issue through? And the second is this square line of store units, which rises from 2,000 square meters to 4,000 square meters. For that, I would like to hear more arguments as to why this has been doubled. Is this background, then, the introduction of these empty squares, or what is the purpose of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u15	Mr President! It must be remembered that today the urban structure to be planned and built will affect decades ahead and will have an impact on both climate emissions and human affairs today and tomorrow. The only aspect of changes in legislation on planning and urban planning should not be deregulation alone. Unfortunately, it now seems to be the leading aspect of this bill, not a sustainable community structure, sustainable construction. Mr President! The opinions on the draft law have been very critical and I hope that the committee will take them into account. A particularly critical issue is the considerable liberalisation of the establishment of large-scale commercial units, and, in the wake of this favourable nature of the field markets and the collapse of the small shops, the ministerial times of Jan Vapaavuori are almost missed, in which an attempt was made to curb this field market boom.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u16	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry of the Environment very much for bringing this issue forward at long last. These proposals, which are in this land use and construction law, are all items that have been talked about very much and which have been expected. Now we're getting results. One of the biggest issues in our government programme is the dismantling of red tape, and now the Ministry of the Environment has achieved the most results. The most important thing is that leisure accommodation can be moved more flexibly into a permanent dwelling, then there is the planning need for a solution — a huge big thing — and landscape work permits and many other things like this. And now I would like to ask the Minister: what is your idea of how much this overall reform makes sense for municipalities and different authorities to do so so that they do not need to think about unnecessary complaints, but can focus on what is the real need for people who look different?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u17	Mr President! Since the volume of construction in Finland has been falling in recent years, it is worth looking for new measures to stimulate the construction sector and also to revitalise the domestic market. I am referring to what Mr Turunen probably referred to in his own speech: In Sweden, a couple of years ago, legislation was introduced to further streamline the construction permit procedure. This new law there makes it possible to build an additional building up to 25 square feet [25 sq m] and four meters [4 m] high for year - round living. In Sweden, it is not necessary to apply for a building permit to build an additional building under the nickname 'atfallshus', but simply to make a written notification to the building board. On this issue, I submitted an initiative for action in 2014, and around the same time the Centre raised the issue with its usual practice. I would like to ask: where is this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u18	One last speech before Mr Tiilika.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u19	Madam President! Construction supports our fine economic growth, and we must thank Minister Tiilikainen for his excellent work on deregulation. In future, the Land Use and Building Act will rely more on municipal officials and decision-makers — that is the right direction. Trade competition will be increased, village construction will be facilitated, shore construction will be facilitated, there will also be reasonable flexibility in the construction of agriculture, and, more importantly, the role of the Elys will be changed in a more consultative way, so that the other official will no longer concentrate on complaining about the decisions of another official, but on making rapid progress. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make it easier for them to make their free-time residences permanent. From the brick, why this is confined only to an unzoned area. Why is it not also targeted at planned areas of beach construction?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u20	Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u21	Mr President! Before you forget, I will start with this last question by Heinonen: why only to areas outside the formulas? Well, the general formula actually defines what is being built and where, and yet another departure from it has been made possible for the municipalities in this transfer of competence. In other words, it will be possible to do so, but it requires case-by-case consideration, because the municipality itself has confirmed its formula and the departure from it is now in the hands of the municipality. Instead, this freedom will now become stronger in unzoned areas. I'm trying to go over some of these questions that have come up. The representatives of Turunen and Östman took out the station of smaller courtyards — less than 25 square metres or so. It is in fact the case that the municipality today, in its order of construction, can decide what is to be done to them and what is not to be done to them. When the idea is that standards are abolished and not added, it is not appropriate to start regulating the matter in the hands of the municipalities. I hope that the future good delegates will exercise that democratic control here and that the municipalities where this is considered necessary will change those building systems. The representative Aalto asked why only the general formula in rural areas can be the basis for construction. Of course, in urban areas and cities, where the pressure on construction is high and there is a greater need for a combination of different activities, it is still justified that a station plan should then be drawn up, where a more precise definition should be made. On the other hand, in rural areas at all, it is not too much to build, but rather too little to build. And that is why it is necessary to make it more flexible and enable it to be built in rural areas. Then how do we make sure that beach construction does not get out of hand? Several water-rich municipalities have made general plans for the beach, which have demonstrated the right to build a beach, and this will not change that. Surely, where there is pressure, wise municipal decision-makers — if they have not yet done so — will continue to make these general patterns. Then representatives of Torniainen and Korhonen asked about this follow-up. Indeed, I can actually answer your questions that your wishes will be heard. It is no longer like putting a patch over a patch and changing this land-use and building law piece by piece, but now the next thing is to start preparing the whole reform. Of course, this requires careful groundwork, but I am prepared to get it started so that there is a basis for further progress. In other words, this comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Building Act will now be put into preparation. Mr Adlercreutz was concerned that, when there are different and different types of municipalities, some of these changes may be very welcome and agree well, but you doubted whether there was enough resources or knowledge everywhere. Fortunately, cooperation between municipalities is still allowed in this country and will otherwise continue to be allowed. For example, municipalities can jointly organise building supervision in larger areas, enabling skills to be gathered and, therefore, their expertise to be strengthened on issues in this area. Well, then, this deal. Someone made critical remarks that the construction of field markets is now accelerating. It doesn't automatically accelerate into anything. Now we are freed, we are given opportunities, and the larger shops can also be located in the city centre where people can walk and ride their bikes. It's been restricted in the past, not anymore. In other words, this liberalisation of the construction of shops does not automatically mean that those shops are being built for something, but where it makes business sense. Perhaps stores are best placed to assess where customers best achieve the services they offer. On the question put by Mrs Majala, how much this makes sense: in fact, in the preparation of the overall reform that will start, it is good to see what kind of reception these proposals are going to receive and what they mean in practice, so that we can then assess the practical needs for change in this legislation that have been put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u22	There are still a number of replies that have not been used, so we can continue this debate while the Minister is still here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u23	Madam President! The streamlining of planning and construction permits is one of the most important things that government standards can accomplish. It is a consumer-oriented policy which, in principle, allows and does not prevent. It contributes to the functioning of the market and enables more diverse and smooth development of the environment, while at the same time facilitating cost pressures. Finland is an expensive country for residents and consumers and is often a country of bans. With regard to this major unit regulation, in Finland retail regulation is among the most stringent in Europe, according to OECD studies. This hinders the development of businesses, and it also in itself increases costs and competition. This liberalisation is also a natural continuation of the liberalisation of the opening hours of shops.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u24	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment for this bill. There are small things here that have been facilitated, such as these solar panels and landscape work permits, but here are very important big things in terms of rural construction, precisely this change in planning needs-area solutions. We also have such cities and municipalities in Pirkanmaa at the moment that the whole countryside is already considered to be a mild area, i.e. a need for planning. Hopefully, through this, the municipalities will change their attitude and feel that it is possible to build in the countryside when it is given the opportunity for the municipality itself and also for those representatives to make that decision there. It would be very good if this concept of harmful urban development were to leave the range of planning solutions and really look at sustainable development and sustainable construction in rural areas. In addition, there are good things here also with regard to regional patterns. I therefore wonder how the Minister considers that these reforms can be introduced in the regional plans which are already in the pipeline or are being completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u25	Madam President! This government proposal facilitates, simplifys and allows and promotes the functioning of the market and, in particular, the climate strategy. The energy strategy was discussed last week, and here is one concrete measure, how we are now contributing to its implementation as the authorisation of solar panels and collectors is facilitated in urban areas. In addition, the transformation of leisure homes into permanent dwellings will be made easier as one detail, and this will strongly transfer power from ely centres to municipalities. Indeed, there are still big differences in municipalities and they can continue to do what they want, but this does put pressure on people to live and work where they want to. This is precisely a question of trust and authorisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u26	Madam President! This proposal is perhaps one of the most important reforms of this parliamentary term that will have an impact on the long-term future, so we can only congratulate on this. If you look at one whole area where citizens have had significant concerns, it is precisely this difficult access to planning and related building permits and this diversity. The simplicity is far from there and the variety is great. It may even be that in the future this will be the most grateful reform that this government has been able to produce. The judiciary says thank you, city planners say thank you, municipalities say thank you, industry says thanks, and central store stores say thank you. This is a great show. I am so excited about the Fourth of July that I thank you again for this performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u27	Madam President! I, too, would like to congratulate Minister Tiilika. Excellent performance. Some small details: Large unit of commerce 4000. If and quite often there are other special shops involved, will this increase by 4,000 then, or does it apply to the grocery trade or to the building, because these new units of commerce may have dozens of special shops on the second or even lower floor? Has there been an estimate so far of how much this will reduce the cost of construction for the national economy or the developer? I estimate that significantly, it speeds up construction times, reduces the risk of complaints and thus streamlines the whole process. I estimate that this could have a significant reduction, perhaps 10%, at the level of the national economy in terms of construction costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u28	Madam President! This amendment to the Land Use and Building Act is a very welcome legislative reform. If we want this country to lift the recession out of the swamp, that means we have to get more construction. It is quite right that bureaucracy should be dismantled and municipalities should be given as much decision-making powers as possible in their own affairs. Planning is one of the factors that has been a constant brake on rural development. Now this is being cut off with a strong hand, and for that a special thank you to Minister Tiilikainen. It's a bold move, and we've got to keep going down this road. It must also be borne in mind that construction in rural areas is mainly done by using wood as building material, and that is a very good environmental act because less concrete is used. Each detached house takes about 100 mots or solid cubic metres of good quality Finnish wood, and it stays there for decades. At the same time, it acts as a very good climate action in line with this climate objective when building from wood. For example, by making it easier to build a beach, and almost without exception all buildings are made of wood, it is a very good thing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u29	Madam Speaker! This reform of the Land Use and Building Law is very welcome. Thank you, Minister Tiilikainen and the entire government for that. It is consistent work in the government to streamline regulations and change attitudes, so that we start trusting citizens, Finns, local decision-making and municipalities again, and that will also speed up our investments and our construction. There have been doubts, for example, that too much is going to be built in rural areas, but that is certainly not a fear, it is quite clear. Far too little is being built there, and the current regulations have also tried to prevent that. Now they're giving it a chance. This is very welcome. The fact that summer dwellings, second-occupied dwellings, part-time dwellings can now be converted more easily into permanent dwellings is also an extremely good decision. Here too, unnecessary bureaucracy is removed and people are given the opportunity to live where they really and genuinely want to live, and that is not what the administration determines. Very good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u30	Madam President! Regulation will be dismantled when it has suppressed development, vitality and equal treatment of the country. Thank you very much, Mr Tiilikainen, for having taken this red tape seriously in your ministry. Now it's concrete, meat around the bones. Let us give responsibility to local actors, municipalities, where there is knowledge and knowledge of the area in which people want to live, what kind of vitality it needs, what kind of business structure and so on. This is a really good reform that is now being carried out. This solution to the need for planning, the increasing responsibility of municipalities for these areas, is indeed a point that needs to be taken into account. I hope that the committee, in its deliberations, will also draw attention to this facilitation of agricultural construction. We have a lot of areas that are included in this area within the municipalities, which are completely rural but which have had major problems in terms of agricultural construction. To the end of this limitation of the right of appeal from the Ely Centres: the right decision. The municipalities know what they want to build there, and they do have that judgment there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u31	Madam President! I agree with the thanks. In particular, it is this time that I myself have received a lot of feedback from the local register office as a spirit writer and population accountant, and this is a great thing. But I would have asked the Minister: you spoke about this change in the procedure for the appeal, which is now in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. There will also be a great deal of feedback. In particular, in the case of business and large projects, it may be that even one municipal complaint puts the project at a standstill. I would have asked: are there any guidelines yet and any timetables? They're very much wanted. It is understandable that we should be able to complain, but it is precisely the problem that one person can for a long time put a stop to that project. Does the Minister still have any guidelines?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u32	Mr President! Many representatives have argued that the municipalities do know. Well, on the other hand, we all know that in municipalities there is sometimes a misconception, and in planning we all know solutions that are then not sustainable over a longer period of time. Kittilä is the worst example at the moment of this betrayal of municipal judgment. I would like to raise one point which I have not yet noticed in this debate. As the government now wants to facilitate the transformation of leisure homes into permanent dwellings, on the other hand, we are just tightening the energy efficiency standards for housing and construction. Has the government thought over how facilitated the conversion of summer cottages into permanent residences will affect the energy efficiency of our housing stock?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u33	Madam President! As a representative of the centre, it is now easy to listen to the soundness of soundness of the central minister, I am very surprised at this fear and concern of the red-green opposition. We have faith and trust here in government groups. It is good to mention, however, that the municipalities are responsible. Both officials and shop stewards act on official responsibility, not on the basis of feeling. This is good to add. But I would also like to ask the Minister, as did Mr Lehti, what positive economic effects could this have, if trade picks up, for building up?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u34	Madam President! One of the five strategic areas of the government is indeed new ways of working, better implementation, piloting, digitalisation and streamlining of standards. It is indeed a question of dismantling unnecessary standards, of streamlining authorisation procedures and also of rationalising the complaint procedure, in order to facilitate the daily lives of citizens and to promote employment and entrepreneurship. I think this is a very important issue and it is important that we Members of Parliament are involved in this when we meet people. The central parliamentary group has been very active in taking the message forward. Indeed, as Mr Laukkanen said, this is where Minister Tiilikainen should be given a confession, perhaps a medal so early on on Independence Day, for he has also done a very determined job in his area of activity at the Ministry of Agriculture. That is what has always been said, Mr President, about dismantling red tape. Then, as in the last parliamentary term, the hands have finally been spread: nothing has been achieved. But now it's time to do something about this too. That's great.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u35	Mr President! For my part, I too hope and believe that it is necessary for this issue to be opened up very clearly in committee, which is what this means. Here in the hall now perhaps there is a bit of this euphoric atmosphere, and we really need to find out about this too before these expressions of infatuation come out. It is indeed a question of how to coordinate different interests, and also of whether the legal coordination of these interests is being monitored when the Ely Centres are being deprived of this right and at the same time there is going to be a major regional reform. In these proposals of the Regional Law, nothing has been said about who carries out the judicial supervision of municipalities. I have no doubt that the municipalities do not know what they are doing, but there are sometimes mistakes, and will it then be left to the members of the municipalities alone to correct these mistakes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u36	Madam President! Indeed, there is reason to thank the government for this proposal. The role of construction in economic growth is indisputable and the actions now being taken are important levers for this growth and its promotion. Bureaucracy will be dismantled, standards will be abolished, administrative costs will be reduced, and authorisation procedures will be streamlined. In many cases, therefore, we are heading in a direction that will enable local and regional solutions to be made. This control and control, which exists in the current law, has led to unequal treatment of regions. For example, the solutions of the Ely Centres have led to certain solutions being implemented in one area and not in another area. This is an unsustainable path; there is a need for equity in these matters. As Mr Leppä said, this is also a change of attitude, but I do not believe that it can be taken for granted that this is a change of attitude in a worse direction, i.e. a change of attitude in the direction of moral decay or a move towards irresponsible practice. Sustainable urban structure
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u37	Madam President! Construction is facilitated, and it is called upon to rely on the decision-making of the municipalities. Of course, I trust in the construction of leisure homes, but what if we go a little further in these ideas, such as the uncontrollable attempts to create mines and logistics areas and what happens in the capital region, for example? Here in the capital region there are more than 2,000 hectares of industrial and logistics areas already planned or in different planning stages, and yet there is a great desire to create more of these logistics areas — and yet their main purpose is to enable this unnecessary stone mining, and it is particularly harmful to existing settlements, namely that quarry can be in the same place for decades. There are already more than ten quarrys in the Helsinki region alone, and more are on the way all the time. Municipalities alone will not be able to make sound decisions if we do not monitor this unnecessary project because the legislation on the extraction and processing of soil has not been adequately checked recently.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u38	Mr President! A representative of mine. Laukkanen here listed a long list of people who thank you. I would add one more, that is to say the most important: even the voters will thank you for this solution. For decades we have been accustomed to the fact that a different set of regulations has been adopted, especially in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment, which at least has made business, housing and construction more difficult. There is indeed a different direction now, and thank you, Mr Tiilikainen, for your determination to implement the Government's programme. This key project, the dismantling of red tape and the accompanying simplifications, as Mr Lehti said here, will also be an important activity for the economy: it will boost economic growth and, above all, enable this society to be strengthened. You have to wonder a little about what the Greens and the SDP are saying when you have such a longing for the past and a guardianship society that is the main thing when you have to trust people and trust that Finnish civil servants also manage things in a reasonable way in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u39	Madam President! Before medals and trophies are distributed here, let us have this proper discussion first. In my first speech, I asked how the proposal affects the steering of the design system and how it will be implemented when the role of ely centres is thus weakened. Whenever it is said that a person must be allowed to decide exactly where he wants to live, the question and the claim also includes the other, the responsibility: how is that reasonable community structure designed, how are these basic services secured for every person, and how they are arranged. This question also needs to be addressed when it is said that everyone can live where they want to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u40	Mr President! Personally, I would return to this issue of free-time residence when people want to change leisure homes to be suitable for year-round use, and I ask the Minister: have I understood correctly that, when this is done through the building order, at least according to this government proposal, how do you deal with leisure homes in the planned area? Can it now be assumed, under this law — since much has been commended here for this dismantling of standards — that this too will happen very simply and that a person will be given this permission not to have to leave the municipality to make a change of plan, because the municipality will not do so because of two or three buildings? How can this be interpreted? At least I hope that, if that is not in line with my own interpretation — I am of course in favour of such a simple building permit — the committee will at least consider together whether it can be changed precisely in this direction, as has been suggested in public.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u41	Madam President! This government proposal to amend the Land Use and Construction Act has received a great deal of praise in this Chamber. It is important that construction is made easier. It will certainly also have an impact on economic growth and development. Of course, there will probably be regional differences, due to the fact that buildings are usually made in need. When opposition parties here in particular have raised this deregulation of retail trade, I would not be concerned about that at all. I believe that stores make decisions that they consider reasonable and always based on customer needs. In addition, this limitation of the role of the Ely Centres in these complaints is welcome and will also help to ease the working pressure in the courts, because there is a
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u42	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Minister for a good proposal and I hope that, during the committee debate, there will be further clarifications on the issues raised, such as the facilitation of this flow and the way in which municipal decision-makers assume their responsibilities if possible changes are made. But the most important thing here is that this facilitates construction, red tape is dismantled and the role of municipalities and municipal decision-makers is also emphasised here. Companies will probably thank you for this presentation, because it will be easier to build. This is also an important reform in relation to the transformation of leisure dwellings into permanent dwellings. Perhaps, however, as the best sentence in this proposal, I think that one sentence is allowed to be built in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u43	Mr President! This government proposal has indeed been praised very much in this Chamber, and it deserves thanks for it. This government proposal has long been awaited, and it is good that construction is made easier. This government proposal focuses a lot now on the construction of sparsely populated areas and how to move projects forward more quickly. Some members of the opposition, particularly from that left side, have suspected that this government proposal undermines sustainable construction and the planned development of municipalities. Personally, I do not doubt it, because it is precisely in sparsely populated areas, and it is good that people are allowed to build there. As far as large cities are concerned, it must be remembered that municipalities have a monopoly on planning. The municipalities themselves decide what type of station planning is made there, and I personally hope that the decision-makers will also consider it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u44	Before the Minister, one last speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u45	Värderade Talman! There has been talk of streamlining, and that is, of course, a good thing. However, it is related to a number of other issues, such as the promotion of digital licensing processes, the promotion of uniform practices, and especially if the power of decision is increasingly transferred to municipalities, these issues become increasingly important. How do you see that intermunicipal procedures could be combined at the level of building supervision? We talked about this overall reform, which is, of course, a good thing, as Mrs Torniainen has also pointed out. There is a free tip: what if the right to build was not based on the floor area but on the utility sector, so that the competitive position of wood construction, especially in residential blocks, would improve considerably? The right of appeal of the Ely Centres is now limited to matters of national or regional importance. How will this be evaluated? Is there a risk that this might, rather, bring such an additional stage of reflection into this complaint process, which slows down the whole process? And then...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u46	Now is the time and Minister Tiilikainen's turn, five minutes, followed by a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u47	Mr President! Thank you for your thanks. Before we really start giving out final estimates, of course the parliamentary committee must do a good and thorough job here, to which more than one representative referred. For example, when Mrs Myller was considering this issue, I am indeed calling for the best possible and thorough examination of the committee in order to ensure that this matter is properly dealt with. This is how it's supposed to be. Some comments: I would like to start with Mr Mölsä, who, in fact, already made this point in the recent session, that how will we now give guidance on these changes in the future? The Ministry of the Environment and the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities will then prepare guidelines for the use of municipalities. The representative, Mr Lehti, raised this question: how is this now expected to affect and stimulate the economic activity or how this will affect the cost of construction? I do not have a more accurate estimate than you do, and I bet that on the basis of the long-term experience you have in the construction sector, for example, your estimate is quite good that cost savings of up to 10% may be at stake precisely through its acceleration and streamlining. In any case, the fact that projects are moving more quickly towards a decision whether to do or not to do is likely to result in significant time savings. To a few points: Here, for example, Mr Hassi was considering this issue of energy efficiency. Of course, it is clear that if you are allowed to change that free-time residence into a permanent residence, it must fulfil those conditions for permanent residence. But when you think about whether it's good for the climate or bad... After all, these studies have been carried out on the carbon footprint in cities and rural areas and, in fact, what makes the difference in favour of rural areas in relation to cities is precisely that small houses in rural areas can easily be converted into climate-neutrals. It is easy to install solar panels or ground heat pumps or switch to renewable heating, such as wood-based heating. In cities, however, it always requires the energy company to change it from fossil to renewable, and, as has been seen, it has been painfully slow in many cities in Finland, although more speed is now being put on. Then representative Aalto took this view that the freedom of living versus the need for services. Of course, this is also relevant from the point of view of the municipal decision-maker to consider that if you are now living there and here and there, then what about the services. My own experience of living in rural areas and observing them for decades does tell us that those people who live in rural areas usually find out when it is time to get away from there a little closer to the services. So here, too, I am confident that that freedom of choice in housing will lead people to assess their own life stage and situation and to make reasonable decisions for themselves, and this service need aspect will also weigh heavily on it. Adlercreutz asked about these digital possibilities. It's important. In other words, it is likely that getting a building permit or a permit for any kind of electronic form will bring productivity and cost savings and will be put to work. As with this one-stop principle, which brings together several permits for a single process — one process, one decision, one possibility to complain. It will make things smoother, but it will not prevent this possibility of complaining, for example, which must always be the case in democracy. And this is what you're talking about. As the sea inquired, how and with what timetable are these things going? Unfortunately, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, I am unable to respond to the progress of the complaint authorisation procedures, but this streamlining of the one-stop-shop process is progressing within the timeframe that it will be in use on 1 January 2019. Many representatives welcomed these changes in terms of living in rural areas, and that is precisely the message that it must also be possible to build and operate in rural areas. I myself have great confidence in municipal decision-makers and officials that they will now also have that responsibility. It may have been possible that an irrational decision has been taken when someone is confident that it will be reversed somewhere. Now it's power and responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u48	Let us now move on with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u49	Mr President! Quite a lot of things about this government's proposal have already been ignored in the Replication. As chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I will do my best to ensure that the committee handles the government's proposal in a good and thorough manner. The government proposal contains one good thing and a dozen bad things. Its good thing was already mentioned by Aalto, and that is that the installation of solar panels will be harmonised, as only the installation of city image and environmentally relevant solar panels and solar collectors will require a permit for action. I can thank you for this proposal, but I do not thank you for more or less what the government proposal contains. The government is talking about flexibility and streamlining, as are many representatives of the government parties in this replication, but in the government proposal it mostly means relaxing the direction of construction, that is to say, the planned development of communities, especially in sparsely populated areas and beaches. The Government's proposal cancels a number of important improvements to the zoning legislation over the last 15 to 20 years, such as the fact that the formulas are not valid forever but have an expiry date, so to speak. This matter was taken into law on the basis of experience, when in many localities, contrary to the position of the vast majority of municipal and municipal decision-makers, the position was built on the basis of very old formulas that had been adopted decades earlier and that no longer corresponded to today's thinking, and if the municipality did not have the time to change the pattern, then there was no way to prevent it. The Government's proposal also allows decisions to be taken in a smaller area when decision-making powers can be transferred from the Board of Governors to the Municipal Boards and Boards and when it becomes possible to change the formula gradually and when part of the formulas are no longer required and the obligation to participate and evaluate is also removed. In this replication we have already talked about major units of commerce and the climate. After all, last week, the government and many members of the government’s parliaments beat their chests and praised the government’s energy strategy as a major climate action. But this bill hits the ears with climate protection through the community structure. The Government reopens the doors to the fact that in practice the retail chains force people to use private cars, as the government facilitates the zoning of giant supermarkets outside the central areas and weakens the control capacity of municipalities. By the way, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities also opposed this proposal in its opinion. So, is there a special shortage of supermarkets in Finland? No, it's not. In 1990 there were 6,000 grocery stores in Finland, only a little over half of this in 2010. Half of the sales are made in giant stores, which are one tenth of the number of stores. In Finland, the area of supermarkets per capita is almost twice the EU average and the area of small shops is only one tenth of the EU average. This bad development was further exacerbated by the amendment of the Act on the opening of shops. We Finns pay a higher price for food than EU citizens on average, even if the impact of VAT is taken into account, and in return we already get longer trade trips and more floor space in giant markets than other Europeans. So this is a development that the government still wants to promote, which I certainly do not think is sensible or sustainable. It is interesting that it is the central government that wants to dance on the whistle of the large retail chains in this matter, while the MTK also complains that the power of the large retail chains has led to a fall in the producer's share of the price of food in the 21st century. The Government will also take the influence of citizens into forest fellings when the permit for landscape work could no longer be required for felling in agricultural and forestry areas. Forest owners can enjoy this, but hardly other Finns. Up to now, landscape permit testing has made it possible to save natural sites and turn open fellings into pickers that are better for nature and recreational use. In Finnish, the Government's presentation also means more open fellings in forests that in practice are important recreational areas for people. The Government has also systematically reduced the influence of state authorities on planning. The Government's proposal now limits the directing role of the Ely Centres and the right to appeal even further. Mr Adlercreutz has already spoken about what this means in terms of building protection. But from the looks of things, development does not end with this government proposal, namely that the government, as we all know, is planning a regional reform in which the legality control of municipal planning is not a matter for anyone, at least not in the draft provincial law that has been the subject of statements. Well, all of this is justified by moving decision-making powers closer to the citizens, but we all know that in municipalities there are sometimes misconceptions, and I already mentioned in the replication that Kittila is a warning example of this. The Government’s proposal also overexplains land use planning when the general formula can be used more directly as a basis for building permits, even in the area of significant building pressure. Ladies and gentlemen! People move not only in pursuit of jobs and study opportunities, but also where it is pleasant to live and the services are good. Many of the speeches made in this debate reflect the belief that the construction of new housing in rural areas is above all dependent on deregulation. I do not believe this if this deregulation leads to a worse, less sustainable urban structure than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u50	Madam President! The Government proposal is a long-awaited and desirable proposal to amend the Land Use and Building Act. A number of changes will be introduced to facilitate planning and the authorisation of construction, from which the main reforms will come specifically to the regulation of large retail entities, to the facilitation of construction in sparsely populated areas, to the planning of stations and to the change in the role of ely centres. These government reforms are very important and will improve the conditions for companies to operate, accelerate construction and allow municipalities to develop their territory more smoothly. The municipalities will have precisely that zoning monopoly in the future. The role of state authorities remains under the control of larger entities. The size limit of the large unit of trade doubles to 4000 square metres, and the maximum size of the regional plan for retailing will only need to be shown outside the central area. The quality of trade in large non-centralized entities no longer needs to be taken into account in the planning process. This proposal is also expected to have a pro-competitive effect in the commercial sector. With the government's proposal, village construction will be easier and the possibility of directing construction by means of a general formula will be extended in villages that really have construction needs. Many young families want to build their own house specifically in a sparsely populated area. This reform also applies to the out-of-town sparsely populated areas and to the closer construction of coastal areas in villages. A much-desired proposal is also that leisure accommodation can be moved to permanent housing more flexibly in the future. It is the municipalities that decide on this matter. It is worth noting that the additional construction of the farm will be made easier in the future, as the design needs solution will no longer be needed for the farm’s agricultural and forestry building. The ability of municipalities to react more quickly to the need for construction and the development of regions will be improved as the plan can also be drawn up in stages. Agility to construction control also allows you to draw up or change the station formula without updating the outdated general formula. This is a very good thing for municipalities. The reform gives municipalities more decision-making power in the development, land use and construction of their own territory. In order for the impact of the law to be reflected in practice in terms of facilitating planning and construction, municipalities also need to look at their own policies and regulations, such as building systems. Here too, it must be borne in mind that the municipalities will also focus more closely and better in the future, because they now have far more decision-making powers. Differences in the interpretation of laws between municipalities must continue to be smoothed out, and in order to harmonise practices, the Ministry of the Environment could also instruct municipalities, but its decision-making must be in the municipalities. The role of Ely centres will become consultative in the future. At the same time, the control and appeal rights of the Ely Centres are limited to solutions of national or regional importance. This government proposal is very much focused on the construction of sparsely populated areas, and in future more attention must be paid to the construction of cities, especially large cities. Perhaps the expectations were also slightly higher for this government proposal that there would also have been more flexibility for construction in the area of large cities, but it should also be borne in mind that the municipalities have the monopoly on planning and decide how to build and what types of plans are being made. I personally hope that these patterns of municipalities and cities will not be made too detailed; then the costs will also increase considerably. All in all, Mr President, it is good that this reform of the law and the dismantling of standards are progressing. As I have already said in that debate, the Land Use and Construction Act has been constantly amended, in part, as in a patchwork coat, and therefore an overall reform of the Land Use and Construction Act is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u51	Mr President! The Government has again submitted a proposal to amend the Land Use and Construction Act. The aim is to streamline planning and deregulation. At the same time, an entirely new level of regional government is being created, and the question arises as to whether these reforms should not be considered in this context, and whether the Land Use and Building Law should also be carefully reviewed and a controlled overall reform carried out. This has also been put forward by the Ely Centres, and the business world has also come up with these ideas. Above all, this bill seems to be criticised at both municipal, provincial and national levels, and in dealing with these individual changes, concerns arise as to whether the whole is still under anyone's control. Mr President! The location of large shopping centres will be considerably liberalised. The size of the store doubles the limit from 2,000 square meters to 4,000, and this is a big increase. In addition to this, the regulation of the establishment of larger shops is being undermined, and this change has been criticised by a large number of regional councils. It should be borne in mind that the establishment of commerce has an impact on the structure of the community, on business, on transport and thus on the structure of society as a whole, and this should not be taken too lightly. Even in the impact assessments of the Government’s proposal, it is assumed that this will weaken the services of the centres and the competitive position of small shops. This proposal therefore contributes to the same development of small shops, which was initiated by the liberalisation of opening hours. And I would like to ask the question: is this the way we want to move forward — to make small shops miserable? Mr President! The positive aspect of this government proposal is to facilitate the construction of solar panels and solar collectors. There is a need for further deregulation of this kind for a sustainable future, so I hope that this positive issue will progress, but that these problems will be addressed in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u52	Mr President! Indeed, this is the timing of the great question mark. Now, within a couple of years, we are going to have a major regional reform, with the Ely Centres moving to those regions, and at this stage we are going to have this kind of medium-sized reform when we are being informed that the overall reform is under way. The question really is: how are these changes to be managed? In particular, the question arises: why this timetable? It is also quite right to ask the question: are these various regulations gradually undermining environmental legislation? It is now coming from many quarters and, in particular, from the point of view that there will be no such control in the future. So who in the future will carry out law enforcement in the municipalities of the future? It has already been pointed out here that this proposal for regional reform does not include this in the preliminary legislative proposal either. In other words, we want to leave this control to ordinary citizens. Municipalities are very different, as has been said here, and small municipalities in particular need this support from ely centres. In my opinion, this is not so much a question of whether you can turn leisure homes into permanent dwellings or put solar panels on roofs or build small warehouses. These are certainly very good changes, but there is certainly no need to make such a change as to put an end to all judicial control. It is also a question of how these formulas will be made in the future. Will it be possible to ensure that, in the future, the content requirements laid down by law will be met? How to ensure participation in planning? How do we define what clarifications are needed for the formulas? I believe that the least change that needs to be made now is that the Ely Centres are still being given the opportunity to make these legal complaints at this stage. It has been said here many times that the substance itself, the content of the formula, has until now been decided and decided by the municipalities in the future. We've been talking about major units in the store. We all know that, especially in the run-up to the two previous parliamentary elections, this issue has been raised quite a bit and there have been very interested parties who have also been involved in various campaigns. I am also concerned about the development of urban and village centres. I think it is essential that this urban policy should also be taken forward: it is possible to have a wide range of services available in urban centres. I continue to express the concern that we in this committee should raise: how will the public interest be ensured in the context of this reform and in the planning work that will follow, and also why is such a timetable set, when both we are about to have this overall reform of the Land Use and Construction Act and then these activities are being taken into the regions as regards control and development?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u53	Mr President! I am indeed grateful for this proposal, which has now been made, but thank you also for the fact that we have such a good opposition, which will check that we will certainly see all the things there, that there will be no damage between these lines. First of all, this responsibility for the environment of our government parties, especially our centremen. We really are responsible for the environment. We want the environment to develop throughout the country, including rural areas, so that our children can continue to live there. Mr Hassi, the representative of the Greens, you mentioned Kittilä's municipality as an example. You mentioned it twice. Kittilä municipality, that what happens when judgment fails. Do you know what kind of town Kittilä is? The municipality of Kittilä may indeed have failed in its judgment, because it is the most attractive municipality in Lapland, a municipality with an absurd development, business activity, there are a huge number of companies there. There is progress in planning, there is progress in all environmental matters. It is indeed an exemplary municipality in many areas. So you actually set a good example in that regard. There's been one problem in the administration, a big problem in the press. Otherwise, the municipality is very successful and attractive. And then from this performance, by the way. This is a very important proposal for rural life. And in particular, I think it is important to develop this issue of design-requirement, as after this we can prevent a lot of such professional complaints. Many rural business activities, including a barn solution, have been hindered by the fact that it has deliberately started to complain about these issues on the basis of a planning need solution and has slowed down people's ability to develop their own businesses, livelihoods and lives. This presentation is very important for the activities of municipalities. Many local government officials have at present had to work in a rather frustrating pattern. On the construction side in particular, they have made preparations in many respects in the sense that, well, the environmental administration, or the Ely Centre, is going to intervene in this situation, but someone is going to complain and it is going to be overturned. Now it is a good thing that the role of the Ely Centre becomes increasingly consultative. By working together, pooling resources, achieving better results — a really good model to take these things forward. The municipality will be more responsible in the future. It is the right role and function in these entities. Mr Myller, you were very concerned about how these complaints will proceed from now on. Indeed, the fact that the members of the municipalities are responsible for lodging a complaint is also to ensure that professional complaints do not go forward with these complaints. It is the right of people to lodge complaints in a proper manner when there is a place for real complaints, and surely this law, in accordance with the Constitution of Finland, ensures that there is a proper, proper opportunity to complain about different matters. Then, in committee, we will certainly have a very interesting discussion on this issue. I am sure that this is not completely ready yet, and that is why it is good that we have an active opposition that is paying attention to various issues, that we too will wake up to the fine-tuning of these points. So, according to this, let's move on. There is sanding and checking, but we make this a very good whole, because we have been given very good food.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u54	Mr President! It is quite extraordinary that Mrs Maijala is talking about removing the right of appeal from professional complaints when it comes to restricting the right of appeal to the Ely Centres, which, as Mrs Myller has already said, have exercised their right of appeal in a very moderate manner and specifically in the area of judicial control, as shown by the fact that the overwhelming majority of complaints from the Ely Centres have also gone through. In other words, most of the formulas complained of by the Ely Centre have also been declared illegal by the court.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u55	Mr President! I would also like to point out that very many times when it is said that the authorities complain about each other's decisions, this ely centre is included, for example, and perhaps that is the way in which the impression has been created that the complaints of the Ely Centres are somehow massive. But, indeed, from these background studies, you can see that there are between 3% and 4% of all complaints and that, when the Ely Centre has gone to complain, it has a very fundamental reason. Nine out of ten complaints made by the Ely Centres have also gone through in those appeal courts, and in fact this shows that it is necessary for the Ely Centres to play this role, because otherwise this judicial review is not carried out by anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u56	Mr President! It is good to move on from this point of view. So now that the role of the Ely Centres will be more consulting, these things can then be done by the municipality and the actors of the Ely Centre in cooperation, and then we will certainly be able to achieve better entities and results. That is precisely what we are trying to prevent unnecessary complaints and processes in matters, and with our resources we are getting more results.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u57	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u61	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u72	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u111	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 15/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u127	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u168	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 31/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u199	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 37/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u262	Madam President! I present the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the Government's proposal for a Pension Support Act. This context was the subject of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. This government proposal aims at a one-off solution to ensure the livelihood of older long-term unemployed people with a difficult labour market status by means of pension aid instead of unemployment benefit before the transition to old-age pension. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it humane and social policy to ensure a one-off income for this limited group of elderly people, as proposed in the Government's proposal. According to the Committee, pension aid can prevent the exclusion and impoverishment of older people who have long been unemployed and have poor employment opportunities. Such a similar arrangement was implemented on a one-off basis in 2005, when ten years after the recession in the 1990s, the unemployed were granted the right to pension support. In this reform, people aged between 60 and 64 who have been unemployed for at least five years will be the target group of the pension subsidy. It has been difficult for them to find public employment and business services or other employment-promoting services that could help them to find employment. Although efforts have been made to facilitate the position of older long-term unemployed in the labour market over the past few years, including by facilitating conditions for pay support for the employment of 60-year-olds and ensuring access to education and rehabilitation for older people, long-term unemployment continues to focus on older age groups. Unemployment among people aged 60 or over is the highest and the longest lasting. This pension allowance is subject to the condition that a person born before 1.9.1956 has been entitled to labour market support on 31 August 2016 and has received a total of five years of unemployment benefit in the preceding six years. In the view of the Committee, the aim of the proposal was to prevent as far as possible the situation of adversity so as not to be affected by random factors. The pension subsidy provides the opportunity for unemployed persons who meet the conditions for receiving the benefit to choose whether to continue as jobseekers with unemployment benefit or to move to pension support without the obligation to be customers of the Employment and Economic Development Office. However, the committee stresses that the entitlement to a pension must not limit the entitlement of a person to an invalidity pension. The conditions for incapacity for work remain unchanged and, as usual, persons who qualify for the pension will be able to apply for an invalidity pension in the future. As a benefit, the pension is thought to be a pre-retirement pension. The pension allowance may be paid up to the age of old age, i.e. until the age of 65. The Committee also notes that Finland itself has been able to significantly increase the employment rate of older people over the last ten years. Since 2008, the employment rate of people aged 55 to 59 has steadily increased, unlike in younger age groups, and the employment rate of older women in Finland is very high compared to other EU countries. At the same time, employment among 60-64-year-olds has also improved considerably. The good employment performance of older people is mainly due to longer working careers. The Government’s objective to increase the employment rate requires that the good development of older people’s employment also continues. In order to prevent older people from becoming unemployed, it is important to seek to safeguard their jobs and to keep working. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that Parliament adopt the second bill contained in the Government proposal 226/2016 without amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u263	Madam Speaker! Mr Pirkko Mattila has presented this draft Pension Support Act and I thank him, but thank you very much for this proposal to Mr Lindström, the Minister of Labour, who has courageously brought this proposal and moved it forward. This is reasonable, humane and highly supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u264	Madam President! Indeed, as we can see, the committee's report is unanimous, and it is absolutely something to be supported by you. It is quite true that it would certainly be very unlikely and difficult for many people who are covered by this Pension Aid Act to find employment in the labour market. As such a single element, as a one-off act, this is definitely a good thing, and this is what must be done. All I have to say is that quite a lot of feedback came after people learned that this pension subsidy corresponds to the amount of the guarantee pension. In some ways, this was marketed quite effectively by the government in such a way that many people imagined that they would receive an early retirement pension, and in some way in this positive way it caused some kind of disappointment. I must say that whenever such things are presented to the public, we must be very careful to tell people what and what kind of solution we are dealing with. In that sense, one might say that it is quite the right measure, but perhaps the government was somewhat over-exploited when it came to this actual outcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u265	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u266	Madam President! The Government proposes a reduction in forest gifts for the generation of farms. The right to deduct arises from the gift tax paid in connection with the generation of forest farms. The deduction is made from the capital income of forestry, such as the sales income of wood. The right to deduct depends on the tax value and area of the forest. Taxes on the capital income of forestry will decrease by around EUR 18 million on an annual basis. In any case, the demand for wood is increasing due to, inter alia, investments in the bioeconomy, so it is, to say the least, unusual to support the supply of wood with state subsidies. Indeed, the reduction in forest gifts is literally a gift from the government to the holders of large forest holdings. According to MTK, more than two thirds of forest owners do not benefit from any reduction at all. The reduction is complex — it is recognised by everyone — and administratively burdensome. From the point of view of equal treatment, the reduction is problematic because it only targets forest land and only forest land donations exceeding a certain minimum size. Unfortunately, the economic benefits of the reduction in forest gifts have not been demonstrated or found to be'moderate' because it is directed at a very small number. At the same time, forest property is locked down for current owner families and the gift reduction is expected to increase the prices of forest plots. The relief can be expected to increase the supply of wood, as the benefit would only be obtained if the taxable person had income from the forest. The trade in wood, as I have already said, is now going well, so a generous donation to large forest owners is pointless, especially in the current state economy. Of course, the wood must be secured. The sale of wood must be encouraged by reasonable forest taxation. Accelerating the bioeconomy and increasing wood supply are central government objectives. This proposal has little positive impact on these long-term objectives. The Social Democrats have proposed a total reform of forest taxation, with the aim of ensuring the availability of affordable raw materials for the forest industry. The deduction of forest gifts is extremely complex in tax terms. It makes taxation even more complicated, especially in the field of forest taxation. In this context, various experts have used the descriptions of the gadget and innovation. It is therefore justified for the Government to clarify the problems related to forest taxation and to submit a proposal to Parliament on forest taxation, which will simplify and clarify forest taxation. In the same context, the government must correct the omissions associated with forest management. We therefore propose, on the basis of the above, that the bill be rejected and that one statement be adopted, which reads: 'The Parliament requires that the Government submit a proposal to Parliament for a total tax reform on forest taxation and stricter forest management obligations, including the first reduction obligations.'
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u267	Mr President! There is a Government proposal for a reduction in forest gifts for the generation of farms. This right of deduction arises from the gift tax that will be paid in the future in connection with the generation of forest farms. The Government proposes that the deduction should be made from the capital income of forestry, i.e. in this case from the sales income of wood. We have proposed in the Committee on Finance that this bill be rejected and adopted by one statement already made here by Mrs Harakka. First of all, I would like to say that I support Mr Haraka's rejection proposal and his statement here. Mr President! This is now one of the three robbers in the trial as part of the manifestations of friend capitalism. Government policy has therefore assumed that, in times of such difficulty, it would be possible, in the name of growth, to support the various types of deductions proposed for taxation. In this case, the reduction in forest gifts has been the subject of our criticism for a few reasons. First of all, let us start with the fact that the reduction in forest gifts is, frankly, a great gift for those who already own the forest. According to MTK, this gift would be allocated in such a way that more than two thirds of forest owners would not actually benefit from this gift. This means, in practice, that those who already have forest wealth and who, as a result of the change of generations, want to pass it on to the next generation will continue to be able to rely on a tax advantage that is passed on from one generation to the next. This is particularly embarrassing because this reduction in forest gifts is justified by the need for a reduction in forest gifts to boost demand for wood. Many might ask why the demand for wood should be responded to by means of a reduction in forestry gifts, which in practice would be aimed at waiting for generational change or even, in this case, often for the death of someone who owns the forest, so that this right to reduce the demand for wood would actually come. It's kind of awkward, isn't it? We Social Democrats are suggesting that the demand for wood can be boosted by the fact that we are actually attacking forest taxation and making it so profitable that access to wood is guaranteed. We believe that the sale of wood should be encouraged by particularly reasonable forest taxation. It is the most fair way to mobilise the supply of wood. We have also set out long-term objectives for the overall reform of forest taxation, and even parliamentaryly. We have wanted that overall reform of forest taxation to be carried out, especially so that we can secure the availability of affordable raw material for the forest industry. Mr President! It is good to note that this reduction in forest gifts will complicate forest taxation in particular in the future. We are now introducing a reduction which is extremely complex and administratively burdensome. From the point of view of equal treatment, the reduction is also problematic because it only targets forest land and is targeted at forest land donations exceeding a certain minimum size. Therefore, these cartoon boundaries make it a very heavy reduction. We have therefore proposed that the problems of forest taxation, which are already in the current legislation, be reviewed and that these new reductions, which will come to the second reading this evening, should be considered. And so, Mr President, I believe that, in fact, the simplification and clarification of forest taxation will achieve much better results. At the same time, we have also argued that the government should correct the current shortcomings in forest management. I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that the economic benefits of this reduction in forest gifts are becoming very questionable. It has been found to be'moderate' because it is aimed at such a small number of beneficiaries and thus focuses on those families that already have forest ownership today. In the worst case, experts have estimated the prices of forest plots as if they are growing, and so one can fear that how will wood be mobilised in the future, or who will invest in forest wealth in the coming years, when incentives are created which, by means of relief, can lead in the opposite direction? This relief would only be granted if the taxable person had income from the forest. It must therefore be hoped that in a proposal of this kind there will still be any problems which you wish to remedy in the good consideration of the MPs of the government parties. We will then be able to vote on these in the Chamber, now that this matter is at second reading. But I consider this investment of 18 million on these grounds to be a rejection of this proposal and, on the basis of this statement, we are moving forward. So I support the proposals made by Mrs Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u268	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to support Mrs Haraka's protest, the motion for rejection, and also the statement made by Mrs Harakka. I am sure there is a proposal in the debate which even Mr Kankaanniemi will probably not be able to give an honest and reasonable explanation, even though he is a very distinguished defender of the government here. Why is it against the government program? When you read what is included as a key objective in the Government Programme as part of taxation, the goal of a broad tax base and low tax rates is very far off. This motion goes in exactly the opposite direction. In a situation where wood trade is hot as the stove hook, it is very difficult to find such market economy arguments that in that very moment there should be more subsidies. Instead of making the tax system more complex, it should be simplified, and perhaps the most incriminating reasons for rejecting this proposal are that when there is little money, it is worth thinking very rationally and carefully about where to allocate the money. This proposal does not support employment, it does away with the euro and the means by which employment can be genuinely supported, and it does not have any positive economic effects to justify it. This presentation, if possible, is even crazier than the abolition of the sweets tax. I hope that this will be rejected in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u269	Madam President! When Mrs Aalto is a good friend of mine and still a representative of the same constituency and a resident of the same city, I will give a little rope and say that this forestry gift reduction procedure is complex and there is still some room for hope in targeting. But Mr Aalto is well aware, and certainly also Mr Harakka — as a vocalist of his birth — that the need for wood for a factory project worth over a billion dollars in Äänekoski will increase by about 4 million cubic metres a year next autumn. It's a huge need that's there for a tree. We must now make sure that the Äänekoski plant, the planned Kemijärvi, Kemi, Pietarsaari and Kuopio plants, perhaps other plants and existing plants receive raw material, thus generating export income for this economy and thus employment. There is a need for different measures. This is one measure — nothing very effective but nevertheless — for which there is a justification. We know that a young forest owner sells wood much more easily than the old one. A forest owner in his 90s no longer sells, he saves it for a rainy day, but a young man sells when he needs money for other needs. This, therefore, encourages young people to have farms and sell wood. So that is how we will really ensure that our industry has access to raw material. Mr President! Representative Krista Kiuru said we should create a profitable forest tax system. Representative Kiuru, which is a profitable tax system
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u270	Mr President! We already talked about this at first reading, and then I put in the Minutes quite a bit of an answer to the representative, but let us do it again. We do assume that forest taxation can be reformed, especially because we want to make wood move as well. In this regard, the first objective is that we can secure the availability of affordable raw material for the forest industry. Secondly, we assume that when we add a further reduction in the overall forest tax system, a rather complex and administratively burdensome system will be created, and in this respect we need to re-evaluate these issues. Furthermore, we believe that simplification and clarification are appropriate in the field of forest taxation today. In this regard, we would also like to emphasise, as a final point, that forest management is linked to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u271	Mr President! Perhaps we should briefly review this realism. After all, when a person receives a gift from a forest, he pays a normal gift tax based on the likely transfer price, or fair value, of the property. So he can partly get this gift tax back in a way by selling wood for 15 years from that gift harvest. In this government proposal and in the report of the Committee on Finance, it has been mentioned that gift tax can be obtained by selling back up to 74% of the income tax. I have made calculations based on the fact that there is already an extremely strong tree stock in the forest and that this gifter will beat it all over the tree area over 15 years, and I have come to the conclusion that this will roughly lead to a refund of 25-30% of the gift tax in these cases. Of course, it varies a great deal on a case-by-case basis. There is no point in exaggerating the importance of this. Surely this is important for the supply of wood, and the demand for wood is growing, as we know, when significant investments are made in the forest industry. Then here the Social Democrats have called for an overall reform of forest taxation. In Finland, there are actually two large forest tax solutions of this kind. In 1922, area-based forest taxation was introduced. It was then abandoned after a long transition period of 13 years from the beginning of 2006. The rotation period of wood is 70 to 80 years in Southern and Central Finland, 100 to 200 years in Lapland. These global reforms of forest taxation are not so often carried out. I admit that this is a bureaucratic but, in itself, micro-class measure in relation to the whole of forest taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u272	Madam President! As such, we are not opposed to this reduction in forest gifts, and it was good to hear Esko Kiviranta’s speech, representing the best expertise in this Chamber, about what this actually affects. I read an interesting article about the future of rural areas from a forest owner who did not consider this to be the most effective way of doing so when it comes to getting the wood moving, and there seems to be quite a consensus in this Chamber that we really want to ensure that the forest industry is supplied with wood. For example, the interview highlighted some such temporary tax deduction right for very small forest farms, because our problem in Finland is that our forest farms are very fragmented and some of these forest holdings have become very small with different collection arrangements. If you think that there is a certain deadline, for example a three-year period, when these very small farms could be sold, for example, with a tax deduction or a total tax exemption, then I believe that the tree would certainly go into traffic, because the fact is that at the time when it inherits the forest, I do not know whether it is the first idea that this heritage will now be put down and the trees will be sold. Perhaps at least I would think this way that in some way one wonders that for the sake of goodness, if the legacy of previous generations comes, would it be the first idea that I should go and beat it down now? In that sense, I think that the interview, which was therefore an interview with the forest owner, certainly had genuinely and honestly considered this issue and wondered whether this was really the best possible, most effective way of doing so when we were thinking about the desire to get this wood into transport. In that sense, I think it is quite honest and good to think about what would be the best possible policy for getting wood on the road.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u273	Madam President! If Mr Kankaanniemi and Mr Kiviranta are still wondering whether this proposal should be rejected or perhaps accepted, then, in your own speeches, I hope that you have convinced yourself by your own words that there is really no sensible alternative, that is to say to reject this proposal, because even Mr Kankaanniemi made it very clear here that, when the need for wood is growing, demand is growing — precisely for the reasons raised by Mr Kankaaniemi — and the market will certainly guide the price in that situation. In this situation, Mr Kankaanniemi's own words are also quite inefficient, ill-targeted and complex, EUR 18 million's gift is probably not very sensible. And, in fact, Mr Kiviranta gave even more serious comments as to why the proposal should be rejected: it is of little importance, and in the previous debate at first reading you pointed out that the use of this reduction requires expert tax planning. If this is so complex and works against the market economy and the government programme and it does not really have an impact on the economy or on employment and, according to Mr Kankaanniemi, it is still very inefficient, poorly targeted and complex, then we will soon have a unanimous motion in this Chamber to reject this motion — and the best experts in favour of this motion for rejection are Mr Kangasniemi and Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u274	Madam President! Representative Wave spoke a little bit more than that. I remember very well the May Day 2014 when Metsä Group announced that it was considering a major investment in Äänekoski — the joy and future outlook it opened not only for my hometown but also, above all, for forestry in Northern Central Finland. At that time, the State invested the largest amount of money in many ways to promote this project, and the EFSI has also been involved in this largest project in the history of the Finnish forest industry. It is quite clear that, in this situation, where demand for wood is increasing in any case, it seems completely insane for the market economy to have to be subsidized separately by state resources. It is no coincidence that Mr Lepomäki and Mr Vartiainen are not in this Chamber to defend the government's proposal and hardly in public. But there is another problem with the market economy, and it is related to why, under conditions, it is necessary to keep these forest assets with their current owners. Why another time? Since the previous forest gift reduction in 2008 also led to higher prices for forest farms, and now prices for forest farms are being further increased, so that it is no longer as competitive for those who have not already been born as owners of forest farms. And it must be pointed out that, when this is justified by the fact that wood can be moved more efficiently, this is, however, only targeted at the third of the largest forest farms, where it can be assumed that forestry is already extremely professionally managed. The two thirds where forest management is not managed as well and which could be made more efficient, unfortunately, this law does not answer at all and should be specifically targeted. That's why this is wasted money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u275	Mr President! To Mrs Aalto, I have not said that this reduction in forest gifts would not matter, but it should not be exaggerated. Then, as far as this bureaucracy is concerned, I am quite sure that when a representative I'm sure the wave will get a forest gift here sooner or later, and as a mathematically oriented man, he will survive this reduction and be able to use it. I would say to Mrs Essayah that it is responsible to use that forest. The axe is the best medicine in the forest. It's a well-known truth. It's not for fun. It's supposed to be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u276	Madam President! I say to Mrs Aalto that, according to the report, the benefits of this proposal are greater than the disadvantages, and I therefore support the adoption of this proposal. Secondly, I would like to highlight the fact that we have many bioproduct projects, and I think that Mrs Aalto, as a Green, would be concerned about securing the wood supply of bioproduct factories in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u277	Madam President! I have to say that from a very long distance Mr Kankaanniemi went to get this, so that there is a bit of a long clay and a terrible frost and more than a metre of it, that those benefits for the bioeconomy then come from there. When it is here that we have heard how long and complicated this tax reform is, then perhaps I saw almost in the Christmas mood and just after the Fourth of July we have to say: Mr Kankaaniemi, it might not be worth going so far to the clay to get this legitimacy, because this is not doing anything quickly. A more important goal for the government would have been to have, for example, the possibility for heirs to form a common forest and to provide inheritance tax relief. Then we would have received these not only in the case of very large families and large forest farms, but also in the case of this kind of tax treatment, because I know that your party and also in the centre have been very critical of the fact that this is now allocated a little bit to this efficient forest management only to the big forest. When it is important that we do not have the 60,000 Finnish forest owners who do not know that they own the forest, the government, and especially the government, should have worked hard to develop a procedure that would bring those untreated forests into the framework of forest management. What they do in the common forest, what they want to protect or be in the economic forest, would have been their business, but they would have come under a controlled system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u278	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u279	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! We had a good debate on this so-called entrepreneurship reduction at first reading, so I am not going to make a very long speech here. In particular, however, I would like to stress that the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises is certainly important to everyone in this Chamber. I have noted that the motives of opposition representatives in particular are being criticised all the time when we are exercising our duty as a loyal opposition to try to show the pitfalls and possible undesired mistakes that this proposal also contains. I am particularly sorry that this report by the Committee on Finance is very limited and ignores many of the key points raised in the expert hearings. It has an academic interest and also has the dignity of future researchers and decision-makers, that the report has been carefully and versatilely drafted. That is why we have tried to do our best in the opposition to produce a more detailed protest, which tells us why the grounds for entrepreneurship reduction are wrong, why it does not encourage what it should encourage, and, of course, that the investment of more than EUR 120 million, the loss of tax revenue, where there is no observable impact on employment and growth, is at least irresponsible in this economic situation. This idea has also been repeated many times in this Chamber that, when corporation tax was reduced to 20%, it would in some way be fair and in that way justified also to calculate the taxation of traders, private companies and, of course, farmers and, of course, forest owners in the same way. However, it is quite clear from the government's proposal that the large, overwhelming majority of those entitled to this entrepreneurial deduction will be taxed according to the income tax, and when 90% of the self-employed are taxed according to the income tax, so, as I have already said a couple of times in the Chamber today, the reduction in the tax on earned income is the absolute best thing for them that the government has given them, and this entrepreneurial deduction will bring little or no benefit. After all, the government’s proposal shows that those entitled to this deduction have a median income of less than EUR 10000 a year — less than EUR 10000 a year — that cannot now be compared to any activity in the form of a limited liability company, but that this is a small enterprise, an enterprise alone, a micro-enterprise, a fight with the achievement of some kind of livelihood. This 5% reduction, calculated in a formula, means that a month’s income of EUR 10000 per year leaves EUR 3 20 cent. It is the price of a bus ticket in Helsinki. This may not be the big change in the atmosphere, let alone the incentive for employment or entrepreneurship, which the government has thought. On the other hand, the distribution effects of this proposal, as has been said several times, result in the overwhelming majority in euros ending up in the two highest income categories, where the need for this relief is not so obvious. I am not going to repeat these professional groups who are particularly interested in this — thousands, even tens of thousands of euros of income each year — but I would point out that they are linked by the fact that they are engaged in a high level of professional competence in the form of a company. The actual risk of entrepreneurship is not borne here, and the idea that even these high-income people, who will benefit from this entrepreneurship reduction, will be encouraged to try or others to pursue this entrepreneurial reduction in these sectors will not work. In fact, incentives go quite wrong: risk-free attempts become the most encouraged. The only reasonable conclusion, therefore, of such a proposal — which wastes state funds without helping small entrepreneurs, these famous duchesses, physiotherapists, cleaners and the like — is to reject this law, which is our proposal. In addition, we will make two statements for approval, highlighting the way in which, instead of genuinely helping low and medium-income entrepreneurs, this entrepreneurial reduction would be achieved. So note: these are better and genuinely targeted measures for small entrepreneurs. "1.The Commission requires the government to concentrate onimmediate measures to prepare an additional reduction in the As set out in Act 107/2016. "2.The Parliament requires the Government to apply for the Council Directive(2006/112/EC)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u280	Mr President! There is an interesting government proposal on entrepreneurship reduction in the proceedings. We have already discussed many aspects of it in this Chamber and, to be precise, I would like to summarise my statement on four points: Firstly, entrepreneurship reduction is justified by the fact that this loss of tax revenue of EUR 123 million is justified by the so-called effects on employment and growth. In fact, when you look at the government's own proposal, it turns out that, first of all, entrepreneurial deduction is at odds with the government's own top tax project, which is based on a broad tax base and low tax rates. In this respect, we are now presenting a model in which only part of the result would be subject to tax, and this is, of course, a very exceptional model, in practice only part of the result would be subject to tax. Secondly, the government's proposal is based on the fact that it is a significant tax advantage for some only. Looking at these income-sharing effects, it is noted that the real growth is generated by this performance in only two of the top two deciles, i.e. the highest classes to which this entrepreneurial reduction is addressed in a significant way. These already tell us that this proposal is irresponsible in such a time when all the room for manoeuvre that is genuinely available should be used to support growth and employment, for concrete measures where the impact on employment is beyond doubt. Now, in this case, the government itself admits that there are no real incentives for employment and growth. The position of the report is that the committee recognises that there are differing views on the impact on employment, which is also recognised by the representatives of the government parties. Thus, the positive effects on employment are not considered likely and the effects on growth are not in any way significant. Many ask why the government's proposal itself is based on the fact that growth effects are considered 'possibly'. Yes, usually when large legislative proposals for growth and employment are discussed in Parliament, the number of jobs will increase. In this case, it has already become clear that entrepreneurship reduction is the wrong and costly way to create new businesses and new growth. This is also confirmed by the Ministry of Finance’s own experts, who have also stated quite frankly that the effects of this reduction on business growth are limited. Mr President! Secondly, this proposal is justified by the fact that this could correct the solutions made during the previous term of government in order to make the various forms of enterprise equivalent in tax terms. At the last reading, during the first reading, we went over very carefully how different forms of company are in a different position and in what way this proposal would put these forms of company in a more favourable position. In fact, it is worth noting that the taxation of company forms cannot be compared to each other today, and not even after this proposal, because many private traders and private companies are already in a very unequal position in terms of administrative requirements than corporate tax payers, i.e. a much heavier administrative requirement is required in this respect for limited companies. There is also scope for a wide range of reservations, and in this respect, as the Government’s proposal states, there is a different tax base for different types of companies and therefore no full neutrality in taxation can be achieved without changing the structure of the system. Now, however, it is amazing why this unfair, growth-absorbing entrepreneurship reduction is being justified here in the Chamber, particularly by this very similarity and equity, that these forms of business would then be in a better position in terms of tax settlement, when this is not actually the case. It is misleading to claim that the reduction in corporation tax would have led to a reduction in the tax on the profits of a limited liability company. The last time we had a very long debate on this too, and it is still good to say that only a fraction of traders and private companies are actually subject to more stringent taxation, and since it requires a full share of capital income without any provision for wage costs, it can actually only apply to those particularly well-paid entrepreneurs. In this way, everything goes back to the fact that it is a matter of the advantage offered to very few companies. Mr President! Then we get to the most interesting, that is to say, who is affected by this entrepreneurial deduction. In this situation, it has already become clear that entrepreneurial deduction does not apply to low-income entrepreneurs. We have ordered calculations from the calculation service of the Parliament, and it has been shown that in fact this entrepreneurial deduction pays out in a very unreasonable way precisely high-income entrepreneurs. Its incentive effects are therefore disproportionate not only in euro but also in percentage terms. In this respect, it is good to look at the government's own proposal, which, on page 15, explicitly states that these changes will significantly increase the income differentials measured by the Gini coefficient, since the reduction in taxes is directed at "lower-income high-income companies and their owners than high-income low-income companies and their owners". Yes, we have to ask here: why does 60% of the beneficiaries of the entrepreneurship reduction end up in the two highest deciles? So 75 million would be spent on this. Yes, many can say that this is unfair from the point of departure. As far as the amount of euro in hand — which has also been well debated here — is concerned, in fact, this proposal also reveals that the median income of those entitled to entrepreneurship deductions is less than EUR 10000, so we understand that the real reduction that would be made will be marginal within a month. In this regard, it can be noted that, given that the majority of these beneficiaries are actually subject to income tax, a better incentive would have been for them to take into account the incentive for entrepreneurship on the income tax side. Mr President! I will end by saying that the Social Democrats are serious about encouraging entrepreneurship. From the point of view of entrepreneurship reduction, we are not in favour of this entrepreneurship reduction, because with this same money — which would be used for entrepreneurship reduction and other major reduction benefits, the so-called forest gift reduction and the incentive for inheritance and gift taxation, when all three are taken into account — we would be able to achieve many times the different types of growth and employment effects. In this regard, it is important to say that instead of reducing entrepreneurship, we would like to encourage employment and growth in such a way as to allow an additional right of deduction for the remuneration of the first external worker, which we have also made with the first signature of Haraka, the representative of the legislative initiative. So that's our option. And the second option is this increase in the VAT duty threshold from EUR 10000 to EUR 30000. Therefore, Mr President, I support Mr Haraka's rejection proposal and his proposals for statements on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u281	Madam President! I am now making this speech from my own place, because everything that is essential and essential has already been said in the context of the referral debate and at first reading. It would seem a little silly to have these identical speeches and debates again. What is essential is that the majority of jobs are, of course, created in small and medium-sized enterprises, and the common aim of this House is certainly to do everything we can to ensure that small businesses, above all, can do better in this country. The question is precisely how best to achieve that objective. The Greens would provide a fixed-term compensation for the employee's side costs to those who hire the first outside worker. In this way, the aid would be directed directly at the employment measure. With regard to entrepreneurship reduction, we would set a ceiling of EUR 50000. If you want all the discussion about entrepreneurship reduction in this room to be summed up in something, you can say that in the government's proposal on entrepreneurship reduction, a barber gets a bus ticket and the richest traders a car. That is why I am making a proposal for a statement in accordance with the Greens' protest 2, which reads as follows: 'The Parliament requires the Government to supplement its proposal by setting a ceiling of EUR 50000 for the reduction of entrepreneurship'. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u282	Mr President! The objective of entrepreneurship reduction to support entrepreneurship is very much to be welcomed. Although the government's objective is correct, the same cannot be said of the way it has chosen. Entrepreneurial deduction is expensive, inefficient and poorly targeted. The cost of entrepreneurship reduction, more than 120 million, is high in relation to its impact, which the impact assessments contained in the Government's proposal suggest would be uncertain and modest. The proposal would also increase income differentials, as it would benefit mainly from the highest income for entrepreneurs, a small minority. More than 40 %, or EUR 53 million, of tax reductions, would target the highest income decile and already well over half, i.e. EUR 73 million, for the two highest income deciles. For a typical small entrepreneur, the benefits would again be modest. Four out of five passenger companies have an annual income of less than EUR 30000, and this would be of little benefit to them. According to the government’s estimate, it is possible, albeit uncertain, that moderate growth could occur mainly in companies producing more than EUR 100,000, of which there are around 5000. This would therefore reduce the tax base and complicate the tax system unnecessarily. Taxation of different incomes would be increasingly differentiated. In addition, it should be noted that the taxation of private companies is, as a rule, no more unfair than that of limited companies. As stated in the explanatory memorandum of the Government’s proposal, most of the results of a small company are taxed as earned income. On average, over 90 per cent of the earnings of business operators and approximately 77 per cent of the earnings of shareholders of passenger companies were taxed as earned income in the tax year 2014. The taxation of earnings is light at low and medium-sized income levels, where the majority of small businesses are located. Due to low income formation and associated low income taxation, taxation of small enterprises is now clearly lower than the corporate tax rate of 20% in the vast majority of cases. The proposed reduction would benefit most from the low number of high-income companies in euro, whose business income is taxed largely as earned income. High-income companies, whose income is taxed mainly as capital income, would also benefit. Mr President! From the point of view of fiscal fairness, it should also be borne in mind that, in the hearings held by the committee, passenger companies and farmers have different means of balancing results, such as the operating reserve, the compensation reserve for the agricultural entrepreneur and the expenditure reserve for the forestry operator and the reduction in the forest, which contribute to compensating for the difference in tax rates for public limited liability companies and other traders mentioned in the government proposal. These differences in tax bases should therefore also be taken into account in the comparison of tax rates. In recent decades, the majority of new jobs have been created for SMEs, especially the smallest enterprises with fewer than five employees. facilitating small businesses and supporting the remuneration of the first employee is thus also reflected in employment statistics, so instead of entrepreneurship reduction, the following measures should be preferred to support entrepreneurship and, in particular, to improve the position of small and medium-income entrepreneurs: a substantial increase in the lower limit of the VAT obligation, automatic wage support to facilitate the remuneration of the first employee, and facilitating the coordination of unemployment security, small-scale entrepreneurship and pay support, for example through combined insurance. On these grounds, in accordance with the opposition of the Left Alliance 3, I would like to reject the bill and make a statement in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u283	Madam President! This entrepreneurship reduction will reduce the tax base and, on the other hand, will in fact not make it easier for the smallest companies, but will increase the inequality between small entrepreneurs and well-run, slightly larger companies. It should also be noted that this change does not lead to any deregulation, since this change also complicates the tax system. On this basis, I support Mrs Hanna. Sarkkinen's performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u284	Madam President! We have a government that is now really encouraging and promoting business. Payment-based VAT, compensation for family costs, a competitiveness pact and this entrepreneurial reduction are concrete measures that have not been seen in Finnish society for decades. Many other measures have been taken, including on deregulation. At the same time, justice will be achieved and enterprise and employment promoted. This entrepreneurship reduction will encourage SMEs to grow, get more entrepreneurship reduction, and therefore it will improve the conditions for doing business and thus bring back the tax revenue that this will generate at the beginning. During the previous government, 900 million were given tax reductions, only for large-income limited companies. This reform also shows the value of small businesses and wants to encourage and promote them. According to the report, this will have an impact on the pursuit of business and, therefore, on employment. This is a good performance, and it is a pleasure to support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u285	Madam President! The reduction of entrepreneurs has been a long time for the Christian Democrats in our electoral programmes, and we are pleased that this is finally happening, especially because it is precisely because the form of company should not be what puts these companies in a different position. As Mr Kankaaniemi said, last year there was a reduction in corporation tax on limited liability companies, and this could not be said at that time by the companies and business names, but it is precisely these companies that would most need it if we were to consider the activities of these companies and the sectors in which they operate. In that sense, this government proposal can be supported. Of course, these employment effects are difficult to assess, and they must certainly not be overstated in this way, but in these times it is these small business names and identity companies that have earned all the applause and the hope that these companies will do better and make more turnover and go on growing. It is quite clear that, when we consider, for example, these costs of employment, these various side-cost reduction schemes for the first employee, and the like, are certainly the kind that this Chamber should be taking forward as one of its fronts. I believe that it is on that side that the greater employment effects can be found. But let us not belittle this either, and I think it is important that this aspect of justice be realised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u286	Mr President! Today, the left-wing opposition has strongly criticised most of the government's proposals to significantly improve incentives for work and enterprise. Today, among other things, there has already been a government proposal for an income tax law and the income tax reductions contained in it, which significantly improve the purchasing power of ordinary employees. It has already been decided in this Chamber to introduce, among other things, payment-based VAT in the smallest companies. This legislative reform has been widely praised, among other things, by business associations. To mention one more point: for example, day care fees will be significantly reduced in single-parent families, which will improve incentives to take up work. Mr President! No measure alone will certainly solve the employment problem in our society, but together the government's measures to boost employment offer excellent opportunities for job creation and the end of the years of recession. Mr President! In many cases, despite the strong criticisms made to it, the reduction in entrepreneurial activity should have a very positive impact on the continuation and expansion of entrepreneurial activity, as the entrepreneurial income increases. Incentives for hiring new employees will also increase as the company expands and income increases leave a greater share of the revenue to the entrepreneur. I believe that entrepreneurship reduction, as proposed by the government, which does not include a green ceiling, should be clear and supported in this respect, as is the case with other good and pro-entrepreneurship legislative proposals by the government. They will increase employment and bring at least some tax revenue to the State, which will compensate for the fiscal impact of tax reductions. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats for their constructive opposition policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u287	Madam President! I personally also agree with Mr Savio's thanks for that good understanding of entrepreneurship and its importance of the Christian Democrats. This bill will also improve the situation for entrepreneurs. In time, the reduction in corporate tax to 20% was evidence that not all companies and forms of companies were treated on an equal footing in terms of how benefits were obtained. The question has been raised here as to whether different forms of company can be compared. Of course you can compare them, and you have to compare them. That is why entrepreneurs are wondering what form of company for them and their activities would be the best, most convenient and most lenient, and it is clear that they have different tax solutions, among other things. This is why different forms of companies are available in Finland. This government has made good proposals. This has come up with a contribution-based VAT and then this entrepreneurial deduction. I believe that all forms of employment incentives of this kind are highly justified and have a long-term employment-enhancing effect. Of course, hiring the first employee is a big threshold for a small entrepreneur. The way in which that threshold can be lowered will probably be important for all measures. It has been suggested from the opposition that this is their solution. I would ask how many jobs it offers when, among other things, Mr Kiuru here said that the government's proposal does not say how many jobs this will bring. How many jobs does the opposition's proposal bring? Tell me the reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u288	Madam President! I support the statement made by Mrs Aalto in response to protest No 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u289	Madam President! Tens of thousands — if this is the way to answer the question immediately. The opposition's proposals are generally based on the fact that we have something to say about what we are talking about — not about a barrel of wishes, but that there is a reality. As regards the Left Alliance, it has been proposed specifically to improve the ability of companies to hire the first employee or, in general, an unemployed worker, and one example of the innovative nature of the opposition is that we have pointed out the possibility of companies getting the first foreign worker, so to speak, to hire a double deduction right, which, of course, is also very difficult to allocate in this particular business field, so that there should be results before they can be reduced. And if it says here that it is easy to estimate the difference between companies in terms of taxation, then it is certainly not. When I was preparing this initiative, I came across just how difficult it is for us to have a corporate tax rate and, in a way, whether a personal enterprise is a business name or a limited company. I brought my own Act initiative to Minister Lindström and Vehviläinen to see that this would be a double right to deduct the costs of hiring the first foreign employee in full during the first year of recruitment. But this government proposal has good will. It's excellent. These two governments should have sat at the same time, both over the last period and over this period, in order to reconcile this incentive for business taxation. The corporation tax and the model that is now being considered here are good, but this certainly rewards them more, could you say, service activities. It is good that service activities are invested in and entrepreneurship is also encouraged, but undoubtedly a stable company that does not have the kind of willingness to grow in the form of employment is now getting the sweetest strawberries. And I would not like to put pharmacists at the centre of this debate, but when it is mentioned here, it is precisely in a situation where a particular service is guaranteed by law and the entrepreneurship that is being created through it is quite limited — it must also be taken into account that there are small pharmacists who do not get into money in small municipalities — this does not in any way encourage the development of their own services or the recruitment of new employees. The government's bill distributes money. No statement of reasons has been able to say on the government's part how many new industrial jobs this proposal will create in Finland how much new employment it will create. Not exactly in the small companies that are going to develop their activities, this is giving rise to growth. This will reward those companies whose actions are now victorious. The good will of the government is only flowing into the money bag of wealthy corporations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u290	Mr President! There is no need for this proposal to be called a pharmacist's deduction. Pharmacists are an example of this — even if they are good people, good people — only because they are, by law, self-employed. There are statistics on them, and the Finnish Pharmacy Association has been able to tell us that the average apothecary's income is 5700 euros next year, the year after that, the year after that and from now on. The same benefits are enjoyed by private doctors, lawyers and others operating in the form of partnerships, who receive the 75 million, or most of the so-called entrepreneurial deduction. This was certainly not the intention of the legislator, to give such a gift to the pharmacists, said the expert consulted by the committee. It is a little unclear — especially since the Finns of Peru have now proved to be the biggest friends of pharmacists, the number one in every municipality’s tax statistics — whether that was perhaps the intention after all. If we really want to help small entrepreneurs, then it is worth continuing the work done by Minister of Finance Antti Rinne in raising the VAT threshold from EUR 8500 to EUR 10000. This was the subject of a study carried out by the National Economic Research Centre and stated that this was a good step in the right direction, and it is therefore appropriate now to negotiate with the EU to increase this threshold to EUR 30000 in order to enable small business activities and better livelihoods for self-employed people. The Finnish Entrepreneurs have also turned their sleds on this issue: they have opposed this in a bloody way in the past and now believe that this is a step in the right direction. I am very pleased that they too have come to the Socialist line here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u291	Madam President! When Antti Rinne was the Minister of Finance and was still sitting in the European Parliament, I was trying to see if it was possible for Finland to raise this threshold of VAT above the EUR 10,000 that we have negotiated in that Accession Treaty, and it is quite impossible, because that would mean that all the other Member States in the Council should accept this change. That would be very necessary, and it is a strange situation within the EU, with these so-called old Member States, such as the United Kingdom, where this threshold of VAT for small activities is fluctuating at some EUR 90000 — they are now leaving the Union, but in any case they were negotiating for themselves in a rather good time. France rotates in some 70,000 euros. That, of course, there should now be a joint decision in the Council. It cannot be that the stage at which you have joined the Union determines the minimum VAT threshold for this small activity. This is one of the things that should be firmly raised to the table there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u292	I admit this next response to Mr Haraka, but I say that there are so few speakers on that list that those who wish to speak will then reserve it there. — — — — But now, Congressman Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u293	Madam President! Specifically, this tiny detail, which was highlighted here by Mrs Essayah, to this small detachment: As has been seen and seen in this debate on sweet tax, this government is not very keen to negotiate solutions in the interests of Finland in the European Union. That is why we propose that the government should start these negotiations on exemption, while, at the same time, it is known that this process is going on in Estonia, that they are raising their own VAT threshold to 40,000. If the Estonians now dare to have these discussions with Brussels on the same basis as Mr Essayah, that the old Member States have very different interests than the younger Member States have been able to take advantage of, then we must be a tomera in that direction. This is where the government, which has had a great deal of understanding for our initiative, should now act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u294	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. As regards this very clarifying comment to Mr Essayah, it is related to this increase in VAT. As we have seen many times this evening, the government could act quite quickly, but when we have this friend of ours, the EU with which we must, however, have common rules of the game. Thank you in advance to Mrs Myllykoski for this Christmas present that I shall receive. But let me ask you a question. When your proposal is that the first foreign worker be hired twice the right to deduct from the side costs of hiring an employee, what does that mean when the shoemaker works in Helsinki and it hires the first employee? The shoemaker's salary is probably around EUR 13 to 15, so tell me how it's going to work, that it's worth hiring the first guest employee there. Double deduction from the side costs of hiring an employee, as your proposal is part of — apparently does — or is this included in the Christmas present?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u295	Mr President! I was going to say something else, but very briefly: It is precisely the problem of my presentation that is in the form of a company and that the result can be reduced, which means that this shoemaker movement can, with less risk, hire a foreign employee when you know that this and this share of his salary costs will be excluded. But that means that its shoemaker company must be able to grow and be willing to take the first foreign worker. This does not mean that you need to be a one-person company, but this may be a family company that works and provides shoe and shoe services, but it is the first foreign worker to have more of its own workforce inside the family, and then, in a way, these business opportunities and performance abilities are already there, but it is considered whether we should take the first guest, so that the risk of entrepreneurship is reduced to the extent that if recruitment succeeds and a good employee is able to make a profit, then the costs of his salary can be eliminated in full. I must thank Mrs Essayah for her excellent speech, but without accusing this government or the previous government or the previous government, I must say that this is a bit of a situation in which we could do such a reality-tv series of 'What are we wooden eyes' about this, how we have surrendered ourselves to the various regulations of the EU. There's Speaker Pekkarinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u296	Despite the good speech made by the representative, the time has passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u297	Mr President! Indeed, this VAT threshold for small businesses is one such thing that if this could be harmonised at EU level, this would certainly increase such trust between Member States. Yes, there are strange remnants here, as it were, that those Member States that have previously entered the EU then have some special advantages for it, and then those who have come later will be in a kind of position as a stepchild. That this would be one step that would certainly be one that would increase trust between countries. On the other hand, considering that goods move across borders from one country to another, it is quite inconceivable that small activities can then be carried out in different countries by different rules of play. It should be noted, above all, that many craft-intensive companies feel that it is only an additional tax, since there are not really products of the type that can make large reductions in the materials used, in which case, for the most part, the so-called value added is precisely the work that is invested in the product. In that sense, craft-intensive entrepreneurs are already experiencing this VAT treatment with a high level of pregnancy. This would be an excellent way of helping the situation of small businesses of this type, which will probably then act as business names and personal companies. In that sense, I would say that it would be worth going with the government and the opposition to resolve this issue at EU level. It was good to hear here that Estonia has indeed gone on its own to correct the matter. Now only in Finland is civil courage to play the game and to clarify this matter at Soviet level. It's strange now if we can't take this forward. I am sure that many, many other Member States find this situation very unfair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u298	Mr President! Mr Harakka asked perhaps a little provocatively — I do not know if that was his intention, but it might have been — whether the Finns of Peru were trying to promote the interests of certain high-income groups of entrepreneurs through this entrepreneurial discount. Well, at least in my personal opinion, this has not really been the intention of the Finns, but the idea has definitely been to improve the interests of the entire entrepreneurial field in order to improve the overall employment situation. Mr President! Without raising any particular issue, although it may already have been raised in this debate by other representatives: if it is perceived and perceived to be problematic in terms of a functioning market economy that there was no market-based competition in a particular sector or in certain sectors, then at least I think that the best option to remedy this situation is to look at the legislation which might restrict competition in that sector and, if necessary, to correct it. On the other hand, I would find it quite problematic that exceptions to taxation should be created only for certain sectors or, alternatively, that good reforms should be avoided altogether.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u299	Mr President! I do not know whether I am relieved by Mr Savio’s statement that it was not intended to favour pharmacists, private doctors and lawyers, it just happened. However, for many months this calculation of Parliament's information service has been known and also the report of the Government's proposal that the majority of this reduction in entrepreneurial activity is directed at people other than what the government probably intended to favour, and I am surprised that this has not been corrected, but that this is what it wants to do. And I do know the reason for this, which the committee's committee's expert also said quite brutally: the intention is to favour certain interest groups, and in particular the fact that Finnish entrepreneurs must now get some of their goals through, when it was not particularly successful in the kiky agreement. Mr President! I would like to raise one further specific question which further distorts the tax system and which should also have been taken into account in the committee's report. It is because this bill misinterprets forestry as a business activity, even though forest income is capital income and not entrepreneurial income. It should therefore be compared to investment. It is very problematic that property income should be treated as entrepreneurial income, even though the nature of the activity, the formation of income and taxation differ. Consequently, forest income should not be subject to entrepreneurial deduction. In addition, we still have this reduction in forest gifts — one of these three merry bandits — which particularly favours forest ownership. Forest income, wood sales income, is capital income where losses and expenses are not allocated separately to the type of income but can be deducted from other capital income. In other words, this argument in the report that entrepreneurship reduction is also made for forest owners is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u300	Mr President! Now that we have been able to discuss these Socialist alternatives, it is good to say once again that raising the company's VAT threshold from the current EUR 10000 to 30 000 is not a far-reaching dream, it is an impossibility, but it is a question of the fact that, earlier in the last parliamentary term, this VAT threshold has been raised, a political debate has already begun. Which, by the way, was supported by the Finns. I don't know if the contemporaries back then remember that Timo Soini said before the parliamentary elections on 3 March 2015 in Kauppalehti that the increase in the lower limit of VAT liability is the most important tax reform of the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u305	Mr President! Let this be a defensive statement to the fact that we have good and secure medical care in this country. In a way, I do not want to agree with the chorus that, by decision of the government, we blame one of our services, which is important for public health, on the altar of maiming the system which we ourselves have created, the legislation of which we ourselves govern and which is strictly regulated. I do not want those pharmacists to have the tomorrow gift that has then become a curse in this debate when it comes to corporate taxation, so I certainly hope that such a moderate approach will be taken to how we are going to reform this whole system. Is it a monopoly, or is it so that we ourselves have created such an opportunity through legislation that it is existing. But when we can change it here, let’s make it something that works. I think it would be very important not to blame those people who are getting rich by the government, but to say that the government has made this decision, not the Pharmacy Union or those lawyers who, by the way, I think are quite good-bye at this point in time, in some other context than the pharmacists — but that is that. In this debate, it is important to note that the government is not in favour of growth entrepreneurship and job creation through this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u306	Mr President! It is worth recalling that there are some 150,000 Finnish entrepreneurs among these different professional groups and entrepreneurs who are affected by this matter in one way or another. It is true that it affects different amounts of entrepreneurs, because companies have different profits and different turnovers, but yes, of course, this is about tens of thousands of entrepreneurs, and that is why I think this is an extremely important and good proposal. This raising of the VAT threshold to 30: well, why not raise it to 50,000 then the same, so that there will be a better presentation of 20000 euros? I would also like to ask: how many jobs will the small entrepreneur then have when the lower limit rises from 10 to 30? Tell me about the number of jobs. Representative Myllykoski said that the salary reduction for the Left Alliance will bring 10,000 jobs when the family entrepreneur employs its first guest. The answer is absolutely certain that this will not happen. There are no 10,000 family businesses in Finland that could hire the first guest on such terms. But I'm sure Mr. Kiuru or Mr. Harakka will tell me how many jobs will be created by raising the VAT threshold from 10,000 to 30,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u307	Mr President! This is where this entrepreneurial reduction has been under discussion for many years now, and you would think that nothing new has come out of these discussions for a long time and probably will not come out again, but I will still take the floor. Mr Harakka said that I mentioned something about the fact that the Finns of Peru did not intend to allocate a significant tax reduction to high-income entrepreneurs, but it did. Well, this ending "just happened" was his own addition, not my own statement. I do not know how the Magpie meant that quote, but let this be recorded in the Minutes, just in case. Mr Pakkanen has just said that this amendment of the law will, of course, bring the greatest benefit to the highest-income entrepreneurs in the euro, and that is, of course, the case, but when we try to make this system as clear as possible it will, of course, be a natural consequence of this. This is how it's gonna happen. President! Finally, I would like to return to this increase in the VAT threshold that the Social Democrats are now demanding from this government. Indeed, during the last parliamentary term, the lower limit for VAT was raised when the socialist finance minister was in power. It was then raised from EUR 8500 to EUR 10000. Now the Social Democrats are calling for the government to enter into negotiations with the Commission with a view to raising the threshold to EUR 30000. Well, the goal is good. Of course, it is not simple to implement, because it is not up to Finland to decide at national level. I would like to ask Mr Haraka, for example: why did the government not raise this threshold to EUR 30000 last season when you had the Minister of Finance's portfolio if you had already experienced this as a good reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u308	Mr President! I shall make it quite clear that the negotiations are not just with the Commission, but also with the Council of the Governments of the Member States, as Mr Essayah said there, and that will naturally complicate this somewhat. The answer to Mr Savio's question is simply that it is worth monitoring the effects of the reforms that have been made before we go further than that. When this was feasible, then, the National Economic Research Centre investigated it, because there are also a lot of doubts as to whether this raising of the VAT threshold is a good thing, whether it leads to distortions of competition, whether it forces the turnover to keep below its lower limit and so on, and a little unexpectedly — and certainly, for example, the Finnish Entrepreneurs surprisingly — that this current low lower limit is actually preventing the growth of companies, and it recommended, as directly as now the research institute can recommend, to consider raising it, and this also led the Finnish Entrepreneurs to change their opinion. Similarly, self-employed women — Mr Pakkanen — have proposed this increase to 50,000 on exactly the same basis, i.e. that it would enable labour-intensive companies to grow. They specifically mention the services sector and digital competence here. They do not have any direct figures here either, but at least they, Mr Seija Estlander and Mr Marju Silander, at least seem to be confident that growth and employment will improve significantly here. And above all, the obstacles to the growth of these smallest companies would be removed because they could grow up to that upper threshold with a completely light administrative structure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u309	Mr President! Just as Mr Harakka said there, this EUR 10,000 was the maximum that was agreed at the time of Finland's accession to the Union, and from 8500 it was possible to move to the 10,000 without having to start negotiations with the other Member States on the Council's side. And I'm sure last season did what was possible at that moment. But as has been said here, Finnish Entrepreneurs have changed their position on this matter. They really had this kind of fear of distortion of competition, and in that sense they considered that this limit always puts some companies at a disadvantage. But it is indeed the case, as Mr Harakka said, that it was precisely that 8500 became such a growth stopner, because many companies believe that they do not want that additional regulation, that additional bureaucracy, that they do not want to register as VAT-payers, that they do not want to change their bills and the whole system, and in that sense it did become a very, very 'effective' stoper of growth. And now, in a way, this 10,000 is a similar line again. It is well understood that it is extremely little activity when it comes to EUR 8500 or EUR 10000, and indeed doubling it or tripling it or even fivefolding it, as proposed by the self-employed women, would be absolutely appropriate. And here, in particular, is this aspect of justice: it is strange that, when this VAT is the tax that is levied on this particular value added tax and then companies operate in different countries and goods move across borders, then a rat should be able to get traffic off the same line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u310	Mr President! Here when the business women were mentioned, I then pressed the call button also because: Self-employed women have really talked about this 50,000. There are a lot of these alone—two entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs who see that it really would bring busust and relief to the situation. I have to say that I wonder how, when Finland's membership of the EU has been negotiated, such an upper limit of 10,000 VAT obligations has been agreed in the first place, when it has already been known,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u313	Mr President! I understand that this VAT exemption is not this traditional Nordic model, i.e. it is not, for example, very high in Sweden or Denmark. And when it comes to events more than 20 years ago, this has probably not been the case for Finns either. As we remember, the agricultural negotiations were the thing that took away from the EU negotiations, let me say,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u316	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u317	Mr President! Good evening, colleagues! Let us now move on to the following subjects:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u321	Mr President! This change in church law has a good and big impact on the church's economy and the economy of the parishes. When you think about this treaty between the state and the church and how to achieve it, you have to say that the ink has not dried up properly, the government is turning its sled and, in a way, breaking the treaty and taking the money away. As far as I am concerned, there is such an agreement, well, one could say a breach of the treaty, because it is promised that the indices will come, but then by law the sled will be turned and that right-wing government will be reducing the chances of the churches getting money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u324	Mr President! Although I am only the third on this list of speakers, I would also like to say that the Christian Democrats support this motion, supported by Mr Paatero and Mr Sem, for an objection that rejects this. I have to say here that I have considered very carefully that we really do not have a representative in the Administrative Committee. The RKP, on the other hand, has, and the RKP has not signed this objection, but on Friday we will see how they intend to vote on this matter. The Christian Democrats will certainly support this objection and we will vote in favour of this rejection, because, as Mr Paatero described here, it is an agreement that was reached in the last period. I know from the background that the Christian Democrats were strongly involved in it. In the first place, companies paid church tax, and then it came about that the system was changed so that the congregations received a share of this corporate tax revenue, and, as was well stated here, it was quite always cyclically dependent on the extent to which the congregations and the church came out of it. After that, an agreement was reached on this amount, which is paid out of the state budget specifically for carrying out these social tasks, which therefore involve the maintenance of church buildings that are important for the funeral, population register and cultural heritage. This was precisely done between the government and the churches. It is disconcerting that this government — one might imagine that it would involve parties that would see the role of churches in this society as important — is then the first to dismantle this agreement in so far as this index is now being frozen and this aid does not follow an index increase. In that sense, this is precisely the situation that Mr Paatero spoke about here, namely that members of the congregations should pay more and more for their part, for example through collection or taxation, which, however, is the result of these social tasks. Here, if you think very far about this line of thought, you will come to those borders that I wonder if this is even such a question of freedom of religion, that is the right way to proceed. Perhaps in this context it is good to say that a group on freedom of religion and conscience has been set up in this Parliament, in which the signatory is the chairman and vice-chairman of Mrs Wall, and is it possible that this will perhaps be the first case that we are beginning to consider: how can this unilaterally be the beginning of the dismantling of this treaty, which has been concluded between the state and the churches? In its own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have suggested that these indexed funds should be returned as a whole, because they are indeed very important from the point of view of the congregations. From the point of view of the state economy, these are not so large in themselves, and in that sense it would be extremely important for the government to demonstrate that it is a reliable partner in the agreement, when this has indeed been an agreement designed to change the practice so that this would also be over the parliamentary term, over the various cabinet coalitions. If, in the very first possible situation, this agreement breaks out in this way, how can we be confident that this will be maintained in the future? In my opinion, this is indeed a much, much bigger matter than just such a state-owned patching-up attempt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u325	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski's approach to this is perhaps not so much a fiscal one, but a matter of principle that I belong to a church and pay church tax. I pay for it because in time my children were small and I received good services from the Nakkila Congregation to help with afternoon club activities in our daily lives. If it were an honorable debt at this point, which I am happy to pay for, that there may be such activities in the congregation that help families with children and do much more good, then at this point I do not consider that very reasonable thought to be, but I think that, if I were properly snooped, I would resign from the church because in society others who do not belong to the church are charging me. But despite my greed, I am not going to make this decision because of the decision of the government. I will do so of my own accord and at my own discretion, but I find this incomprehensible. It is probably quite a wish that it might be possible to think that this would change now in this Parliament, but if it were possible, this would in a way be a matter of the reputation of the Finnish Government. Now, of course, at this point, it culminates in the government and Parliament that a breach of the treaty would not be committed in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u326	Mr President! There have been very good speeches here. I listened very carefully to Mr Paatero's speech, and I would very much like to have signed everything else, except for some reason the Swedes were not in favour of it, and I know again that if there had been Christian Democrats there in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, they would certainly have supported it, but, as Mr Essayah said, we have this stated and raised in the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats. In fact, the church does a lot of things also on the social side, and social good and social tasks are diverse. I wanted to point out that it has been seriously thought that the cost of social tasks for the Evangelical Lutheran Church, if you look at the net costs, is about EUR 146 million a year. Indeed, the current level of state aid does not cover all the costs of statutory tasks, as did the corporate tax component in the past. Yes, if one thinks that the state in some way appreciates the independence of the church, it would be reasonable for it to actually pay the full cost of these statutory tasks. And if you still think that such an agreement has been made, then it is quite unheard of in a certain way that things like this in a year's time would be changed. And it is not fair that the diminishing crowd should then pay for the expenses of all others. I would hope that, when the vote comes, this would be a vote in which the pieces could then be in such a way that this proposal, which is found to be bad in many ways, could then be rejected in the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u327	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u328	Mr President! The Old Age Services Act entered into force from the beginning of July 2013. This law was based on poor care for the elderly in 24 - day care, their mistreatment, followed by a report that there were nine out of ten nursing homes with something to point out. That is why it was absolutely essential that Parliament unanimously adopted a new Act on services for the elderly, which in many ways improved the life situation of older people. When the law was adopted, it strengthened the legal security, inclusion, well-being and functional capacity of older people. As a result of the law, the quality of 24-hour care has improved. Now, however, the government is breaking down this legislation piece by piece. The Government proposes that Article 10 of the Act on the expertise available to municipalities in the area of elderly services should remove the list of professions for which the municipality must have access to specialist expertise. According to the list, there must be at least specific expertise in the fields of well-being and health promotion, gerontological care and social work, geriat-ria, medical treatment, nutrition, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and oral health care. The fact that municipalities cannot be obliged to retain specific skills is justified by the weakening of their knowledge and the removal of the list. This has been an amazing argument, since in the future social and health services will be transferred to the provinces, which will make it easier to acquire the specific expertise of these areas of expertise in the province. That is why, in my view and in our opinion, this proposal cannot be justified. We cannot accept the weakening of expertise and we do not see the deletion of the list as a response to the challenges of older people's work. On the contrary, the need for listed skills is growing as the population ages and older people live longer and longer. Skilled and well-being personnel commit themselves to work and provide a guarantee of high-quality and ethically sustainable social care. Therefore, the requirements for the competence of older people are calculated in practice, although good competence is a prerequisite not only for good management and a sufficiently diverse assessment of service needs, but also for good management and development of services, which, in turn, enable effective, cost-effective operations. Mr President! The government also removes responsible workers for the elderly. Government parties are proposing to remove the responsible worker from the old-age service law because the Social Welfare Act provides for a self-employed worker. It has been argued that this will eliminate and reduce duplication and detailed regulation. However, the justification seems to be weak, because in any case, the elderly must also be assessed for service needs and a package of service plans, which will in any case have to be carried out, for example, by a person with the professional qualifications of a responsible worker. The most vulnerable and lonely elderly suffer the removal of the responsible worker. In the preparation of the law and in the consultation of the committee's experts, the supervisory authorities have expressed serious concerns about the right of elderly people to access services. For example, Valvira, the Social Welfare and Health Inspectorate, in its own opinion, considers that there is no justification for the repeal of the section on the responsible worker in the Act on Elderly Services. Mr President! The Government lacks a clear vision of care for the elderly. However, the government is developing informal care, which is a good thing. However, this must not mean that the government transfers care for the elderly to the family and thus reduces its own responsibility for care for the elderly. Mr President! On these grounds, I propose that the second draft law be adopted in accordance with the committee's report and that 1. the draft law is rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u329	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. I'm squeezing a motion to reject this first law. This presentation, which has now been brought in, is bizarre. Three years ago, an old-age service law was enacted, which very realistically described what skills are needed in elderly services in order to help older people to cope better and manage and their well-being is as secure as possible, and now this list of skills is being dismantled. This reminds me that the government wants to extend the list which can then boast that standards have been dismantled — but it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u330	Mr President! I find this line proposed by the government and the resulting weakening of this care for the elderly extremely worrying. The question of special skills will be undermined, it is quite clear that both the quality of care and the special characteristics of care for the elderly are being taken into account. Instead of the cost savings applied for by the government, the change will in reality increase the costs that will be incurred in the long term due to the loss of specialist knowledge. I propose that, in accordance with this objection 2, this second draft law be adopted in accordance with the committee's report and that it be brought in 1. the draft law is rejected. Two aspects are particularly relevant here: It is precisely this appointment of a responsible worker for older people that must continue to guarantee expert care, and that is precisely what must be maintained. And the second point that has already been raised by the previous speakers is that it is precisely that list of professional sectors for which the municipality should have special expertise that must continue to be maintained. In other words, the change proposed by the government will not ensure an adequate level of expertise and quality of care to take into account the specific characteristics of the care of the ageing population. Geriatria, gerontology, medicine competence, many of these types of things are very important for the care of older people, and considering that the number of older people is increasing all the time, it is very important. As has been said, if the government's proposal is implemented, costs will increase instead of cost savings and care for the elderly will also deteriorate. In other words, as I mentioned, I make the suggestion in protest 2 that 1. the draft law is rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u331	Mr President! I support the proposal tabled by Mr Tanus in protest 2, namely the adoption of the 2nd bill and the rejection of the 1st bill. Perhaps enough of this, because, as the speakers have said before, it is difficult to see that this will make savings, as I remember it, of 12.5 million euros and about 15 million euros from the second proposal, because people with special expertise have not usually been extra people, but instead the municipalities have wanted to make sure that they have these special experts on the team. If, for example, those with medical treatment and nutrition and multidisciplinary rehabilitation no longer exist in the future, then surely there will be a greater risk of, for example, incompatibility and possibly overmedicating and thus falling and other types of accidents being followed, so that these costs will certainly increase. Then this dismantling of the self-care system is another such speciality, because it is precisely those most vulnerable elderly people who have been unable to look after their own services, these self-careers need, and in that sense too, I think that this type of austerity measure is not really bringing any savings. In my opinion, this kind of decomposition because of the decomposition of the norm, i.e. in such a way that the situation of the most disadvantaged people is actually weakened, it is very cold. I should take care of this quality of the old-age service law. We have talked a lot here about the care-care measure, but this quality requirement in the old age service law should not be undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u332	The 19th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u333	Mr President! In the Government proposal 213, it is proposed to amend the provisions on the payment of the State's education allowance so that the State's remuneration for specialist and specialised dental training will continue to be paid to universities. The proposal proposes that a new provision should be added to the law on the payment of training allowances to universities, whereby the university which organises specialist and specialised dental training would be compensated by state funds for the costs of training specialists and specialised dentists. The reimbursement of specialist and specialised dental training would be based on the number and training of doctors and dentists who have completed training. The government proposal in question must be supported. I also attach great importance to the development of specialist training. The reform would provide better opportunities to develop and coordinate the content and quality of specialist training and to steer the special and regional balance between specialist and specialised dental training. In addition to this, I am in principle in favour of the committee's report, but I believe that paragraph two of the explanatory statement contains shortcomings in the development and organisation of genuine student selection of specialist education. In line with the opinion of the Medical Association, I propose amendments to the committee's report. Paragraph 2 of the Committee's report states that "the development of student selection and career guidance in specialisation training, the introduction of a quality and monitoring system, the assessment of specialist skills and the preparation of the so-called training pathways for specialist staff, it is proposed that it will be possible to shorten long training periods and improve the content and quality of education and the imbalance in the specialised and regional distribution of specialist doctors and specialised dentists". The above paragraph of the Committee's report does not take sufficient account of the realisation of equality between the persons involved in the selection of specialisations. Persons applying for the same specialisation should have equal opportunities to pursue the specialisation sector in question. In addition to trying to find new opportunities for development and new plans, in accordance with the committee's report, reform must also focus on real implementation of these in practice. So it is not enough just to develop or plan things, but to put them into practice, that is to say, to start implementing them. Otherwise, there can be no real reform. The Government's proposal also aims to reduce the duration of education from around 8 to 10 years closer to the target period of 5 to 6 years from becoming a doctor or dentist. Abbreviation aims to get specialist doctors and specialist dentists to work faster in a situation where retirement increases the risk of a shortage of specialist and specialised dentists. The proposed amendments also have a major impact on increasing the motivation of the specialised person, which plays a key role in achieving the above objective, in reducing the duration of training. In the light of this above, I propose that the second paragraph of the explanatory memorandum in the report of the committee on 3.6.2016 be amended to read as follows: "The development and organisation of the skills of specialised training, the development of career guidance, the development and introduction of In developing and implementing student selection, consideration should be given to the fact that persons applying to the same specialisation field have equal opportunities to pursue the specialisation sector in question." I felt it was important to bring these changes to the report as well, especially when these issues were also raised in committee when we had special experts to hear, among other things: A representative of the Medical Association raised these issues. And at that hearing, we asked questions to which representatives of the Association of Doctors and also of the University of Helsinki and Tampere answered. I wanted these to be The points raised by the Medical Union that it is not just enough to plan and develop things, but must be put into practice and put into practice, would also be better reflected in our report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-07-ps-126.u334	Mr President! I support the amendment of the second paragraph of the explanatory statement of the committee's report in response to Mr Tanus' protest.
