ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision is now made by Peter Östman and others. on the question of the crisis in Finnish agriculture. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 14 June 2016. In the debate, Mr Östman, supported by Hanna Halmenpää and Mr Tytti Tuppurainen, have put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u2	Mr Wallin's proposal is put to the vote against Mr Östman's proposal and, finally, does the Government enjoy the confidence of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 9/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u4	Madam President! According to the Government’s proposal, the right of family carers to leave is extended so that all family carers who have entered into a family care agreement are entitled to leave for at least two days per calendar month. In the case of continuous care, the right to leave shall continue to be at least three days. In addition, the Social Welfare Act introduces provisions on the freedom of the person caring for his or her family or family and on the obligation of the municipality to provide appropriate care in a free period of time. The committee welcomes the increase in the freedom of carers and the extension of the circle of free carers. Indeed, a significant proportion of persons entitled to free informal care are currently not exercising their freedom. According to a report by the National Institute for Health and Welfare, this is due to the reluctance to leave the treatment of others, the refusal of treatment and the lack of appropriate substitute care. The Committee therefore stresses the need for adequate resources and expertise in foster care in order to implement active, high-quality and rehabilitative care. A significant proportion of those who care for their family and their loved ones for a long time have not concluded a family care agreement, and they are thus outside the family carer’s free system. The proposed amendment to the Social Welfare Act also strengthens the right of these persons to leave. The committee notes that, for those who do not have a informal care agreement, there are challenges to implement the law. In order to ensure equal treatment for those who care for their family without a family-care agreement, municipalities should have criteria on the basis of which the family member is entitled to leave. Mr President! It is proposed to include a provision on the obligation of the municipality to organise training and training for family carers, if necessary. There has been a lot of training provided by organisations and volunteers, and the Family Caretakers and Closest Association has done groundbreaking work here. The Committee therefore considers it important that, in the event of changes in training, organisations with strong knowledge and long-term experience can continue to be responsible for the production of training by the municipality. The committee proposes that the training be transferred to the responsibility of municipalities only from the beginning of 2018. In such a case, it is possible for organisations to adapt their activities in such a way as to enable them to provide services in accordance with the provisions of the Procurement Act. However, the additional resources reserved for coaching should be implemented as planned already in 2016 and 2017. This will enable municipalities and regions to start planning, developing and instilling training as part of their permanent activities even before the law changes. As a service supporting the informal care function, a provision is added to the law on the obligation of the municipality to organise welfare and health inspections and social and health services in support of his or her well-being, if necessary. The committee welcomes the proposal because the health and well-being of the person being treated must be taken care of and often the care provider's own health is secondary. The committee also stresses that sufficient attention must also be paid to the mental well-being and rehabilitation of the carer. The committee also attaches great importance to data collection so that better account can be taken of the diversity of informal care when developing legislation on carers. In the development of regulation, it is necessary to identify different care situations and the different requirements to be taken care of in terms of the health, endurance and quality of care of family carers. Mr President! Nearly 7,000 children under 18 years of age were treated with informal care in 2014. There are children of different ages, different needs, whose rights and well-being the changes now being proposed will have a clear impact. However, the Government proposal does not include an assessment of the impact on children. According to the committee, the impact assessment of the proposal would have been important to take into account the different age groups, their needs, including specific needs arising from the child’s illness, disability or other specific background factors such as the cultural and linguistic background. The committee therefore notes that the requirement for an assessment of the effects on children is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention requires that the best interests of the child be taken into account as a matter of priority when decisions are made on children. Mr President! The committee is in favour of the adoption of the draft law as amended, in line with the amendments made by the committee, and the committee's proposal is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u5	Thank you. — Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u6	Madam President! One of the main objectives of the Government Programme is to support family and family care. In-house care is a very important form of care for the social sustainability of society, as it makes it possible to live at home and to have close contact with the family. In addition to this, informal care also plays a major role in central government finances, as one family carer can save tens of thousands of euros of public money a year. It has been a disgrace that there are many family carers in Finland who have been too hard on them. All suffer from the overburden of the carer: the carer himself, the nurse, their loved ones and society. Yet, for a long time, we have offered only warm talks to family carers. Now things are changing. The major reform relates to the free. In the past, the right to leisure has only been exercised by those who are engaged in binding nursing. It is now up to the municipalities to arrange for leave for all persons who have entered into a informal care agreement with the municipality. In addition, the law adds that you can also provide free time for those who provide informal care without a family care contract. The aim is to provide better support for all kinds of informal care situations. Support for family carers should not be black and white, on-off. Support is needed by carers other than family carers who have concluded the contract and should expand on the move as necessary. Secondly, there has been a problem with the fact that, despite the right to freedom in principle, only half of family carers have been kept free. The lack of free use is often not due to the need for it, but to the fact that the municipality has not provided reasonable opportunities for free-time replacement treatment. This has now begun to be improved not only by law but also in practice. Family care is an important means of improving leisure opportunities. Family care is usually a more flexible and pleasant option for the free provision of a family carer than, for example, a period in a service house. Family carers are also doing a very valuable job. In the context of this reform, the freedom of family carers must be supported and increased. Hopefully, more and more people will find a meaningful job in family care. It is really great that family care for older people is becoming more widespread and that good practices are actively being disseminated. Family care functions not only as a short-term but also as a continuous care, such as a replacement for service housing, and as an important part of child protection work. These legislative proposals also provide family and family carers with long-awaited health and well-being checks. In improving support for family and family care, we are now well on track. In the context of the Sote reform, it is a good time to renovate support services in a way that better responds to the needs of family and family carers. In this work, we must, above all, listen to the wishes of family and family carers and, of course, to the views of those who are being treated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u7	Honorable Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This government proposal before us is certainly one of the most important legislative proposals of this parliamentary term. The development of informal care has been a key objective for the Assembly and the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party. This was one of our central objectives in the government negotiations. Indeed, it is an important choice for the government to make, in the midst of major cuts, a significant contribution to family care, and thus the national programme for the development of informal care is finally taking an important step forward. The main objectives of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party have been to support family carers, the right to leave, to strengthen them, to develop foster care, to improve the availability and quality of foster care, and also to make the welfare and health checks of family carers available to as many family carers as possible. This bill was excellently presented by the President-in-Office, and I would say that this was indeed a unanimous report, and I will take a few withdrawals from this. A special wish for family carers has been that there will be flexibility in the use of free carers, i.e. free time can be used for less than a day or free time can be collected in such a way that these frees can be tailored to each need. This is very important. The proposal is indeed part of the Sipilä Government's social welfare reform, in which service structures are adapted to suit people. In other words, this reform strongly supports family and family care, while at the same time reducing the need for traditional institutional care and increasing home living while reducing expensive institutional care costs. And, indeed, the essence of this proposal is the promotion of the ability of a family carer and the quality of informal care, and this is certainly a major step forward. When home is most often the most important and beloved place for a person to live and when this bill of law really makes it possible to live at home, it is really justified to support it in terms of the quality of life of a person. On the other hand, the burden of a carer is very well taken into account. The work of a carer is highly appreciated, but it is demanding and often very burdensome, and this presentation guarantees the leisure hours of the carer, which will then allow the carer to raise resources to care for his loved one. This bill does indeed include welfare and health checks for family carers, but it is not directly the responsibility of the municipalities, but "if necessary", and with this speech I would like to encourage municipalities to introduce these checks. These health and well-being checks can prevent preventive action and help the carer in good time, thus avoiding the need to help the carer and the need for the carer to become undetected. So it's always important to ask who's taking care of the family nurse. This proposal is indeed part of Prime Minister Sipilä's top project to develop home care for the elderly and strengthen the top project for home care for all ages, and it is good to say that there is indeed a strong increase in funding for this top project, but in fact the budget will come annually if we look at the level of 2018 at EUR 95 million. This is a huge effort. Mr President! I would like to say once again that the time has come to an end, and I will take the floor, that this bill was unanimous, but one of the shortcomings in the drafting of this bill was the fact that no child impact assessment was carried out before this, and this is exactly the kind of bill in which that assessment should be carried out. When the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child specifically states that situations where a child is separated from his or her parents — as is the case with family care, where a carer uses holidays and support services — this proposal is precisely the one where that assessment should have been carried out, and I will send a strong message to the good government of the country that these impact assessments must be carried out in the future and that the best interests of children must always prevail when legislation is being prepared. But the Assembly's parliamentary group strongly supports this bill and thanks the government for having come before Parliament and now we are ready to accept it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u8	Madam President! It is very positive that informal care is being developed, and this is also fully in line with the objectives of the Social Democrats, and I agree with Mr Sarkomaa's view on the impact assessment of children. Just today, in the Committee on Budgets, we have discussed the spending limits report. In this context, the Social Democrats have also pointed out more broadly that government proposals too often lack different impact assessments, both for children and, for example, for income-sharing effects. President! It is important to develop home care for the elderly, but it is also important to remember care for the elderly more generally. In this context, I would like to express concern, for example, about the government's plans to weaken the care system in the care of the elderly. And even now, when we talk a lot about the problems, the cases of neglect of the elderly and others, which are often due to the lack of staff and fatigue, I think that this is one of the most brutal savings that the government should give up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u9	Let's do a little debatation round here, that is, if you want to reserve the floor, it will be done with a V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u10	Mr President! The development of informal care is very important, and it must be supported, but at the same time it must be accepted that at some point, for example, care for a person with a memory disorder at home will not be possible, even if the family member receives all the support and assistance he can get, that is to say, there must never be any forced treatment. In this situation, moving to a community home should be an easy and realistic option. At the moment, community homes, at least those with the capacity to face and treat people with high memory problems, still have a huge shortage in different parts of Finland. In other words, in addition to the development of informal care, community care must also be developed and these community homes must be built further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u11	Mr President! It is really great that the law that develops and improves family care is now at this point and is entering into force for the benefit of Finnish family carers and carers. Here, in previous speeches, an assessment of the impact of children was raised and I am very pleased that the evaluation of the impact of children in this government's programme as part of the decision-making process is now taking place at both local and national level and is being developed as a little new approach in addition to the traditional gender impact assessment. I also welcome the fact that this is an issue that we in Parliament may now be dealing with through a joint committee report so that the opposition supports the government in this proposal. It is valuable because the work is based on the work of the Socialist Minister to draw up a working group on the development of informal care, and this government now wanted to put it into practice just for the sake of clarification.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u12	Madam President! Certainly there is agreement in this Chamber that family carers are doing extremely important work for our society as a whole. All the proposals, which only slightly improve their position, are extremely welcome and I am sure that this unanimous report will also be the result of this in committee. In this context, it is, of course, worth pointing out that in Finland all those who do this heavy and important informal care work are still excluded from this support. After all, the Christian Democrats have long had the aim of transferring our informal care support to Kela, so that it can be ensured that these criteria are uniform, and also that there will not be situations such as the fact that if you apply for informal care support in the early part of the year, you may get it, but not at the end of the year, because the municipalities are so different in their economies. In that sense, this must be set as the next major reform objective for this informal care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u13	Mr President! This impact assessment on children is indeed a key issue. But another thing related to informal care is the elderly mates who care for their relatives at home. In these situations in particular, it should always be ensured that informal care is a genuine choice and not because there is a shortage of care facilities or because of the lack of care facilities that people expect. That is why we Social Democrats have always stressed that care for the elderly must also be provided for the care that is being provided in subsidised service housing, round-the-clock care and in various intermediate care places, which are indeed needed more especially for elderly people suffering from memory disorders. This law is welcome, but there are still issues that still need to be developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u14	Mr President! I would like to say here to the opposition — when it is very often stated on the part of the opposition that this government would have been particularly badly affected by impact assessments — as Mr Saarikko said that we have specifically taken this child impact assessment as a key project because it has not been carried out before. But I regret that it has not yet come to this, and that is why I raised this issue and said here that this reform is part of the social welfare reform of the Sipilä Government, making the service structure look like a human being. Family care is one part of it, and it is quite clear that that is why we wanted these welfare and health checks to be passed on to the law, so that we would regularly meet the family carer and then be prepared for it if the family carer is no longer able, and then there are other possibilities. In no way must it be compulsory to be a family carer, but there must then be opportunities, for example, to move to a community home. I know, and I feel that this is a big concern for family carers, and this really is a strong concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u15	Madam President! The Finns of Peru are glad that this bill has now come to Parliament and a message has been received from the people there and from family carers. It is great that family carers are guaranteed days off, and it is hoped that the foster care will also work in the future. Substitute therapy shall not be mere detention. Today is a national and international campaign day to prevent mistreatment of older people, and we have it on the Hidden Votes campaign day. We must do everything in our power to prevent abuse, and this matter of care was raised here. After all, the weakening of the nurse’s dimension was started last season, when the quality recommendation began to be weakened: it was dropped from 0.6 to 0.8 to 0.5, and these are the figures that we are currently looking at. In other words, we all have reason to look in the mirror, which is why it is currently 0.5 and why it is set to that level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u16	Mr President! If the carers went on strike, there would be chaos. I think it is an indication of the importance of this work and of the fact that it really is worth considering the tools that can help to make life easier for family carers. In that sense, this government proposal is a welcome reform. But when considering these days off, it is also essential to consider the needs of its family carer and care provider. Too often we assume that these days are taken care of by taking someone to an institution while they are free. Often, on the part of carers, you hear the message that it would be better to get help home, because then the ark would not be mixed up as much as in these interval periods. And what's important is how to get this thing done. I am thinking of the fact that, in the context of the social welfare reform, we are, as it were, reducing these tasks from the municipalities, and yet here we are imposing responsibility on the municipality. We are in a bit of a state where we do not really know which way to go: do we go in the direction that the municipality will answer, or do we go in the direction that they will move to the provinces? I hope that this will not, as it were, bring about a situation in which we are going to be left in such a state that these things will then not be put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u17	Madam President! I am glad now that these legislative proposals will make it easier for family carers to spend their holidays by also developing family care. And the short-term family care has shown its claws: both carers and nurses have given very encouraging feedback in places where this has been used — and dozens of municipalities already have this short-term family care. In other words, it will certainly make it easier for what Mrs Filatov said, that there are not enough access points, and it is just as you said, for example, that it is not necessary for people with memory problems to want to take their lives to an institution, because their lives are being shaken, that is quite true. I now see this reform as a clear step forward in this respect, and I am very pleased about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u18	Madam President! Legal reform is very important, and it is good that we take care of family carers, because the work is really hard. And, as the report states, even now a significant number of family carers who are entitled to leave have not used them, because they cannot be confident that they will receive quality and good and individual care during their holiday. It is important that the municipalities continue to invest in this, and it can also be of a wide variety, and the organisers can also be diverse, such as organisations. I also attach great importance to the attention that the committee has made to the fact that the assessment of the impact on children has not been properly carried out. Often, when you think of informal care, you only think of the elderly, but there are very many children to care for, and that is why this matter of data collection, which has been raised, is very important for further development. Care must also be taken to ensure that self-help does not become a new income trap for women and to consider how to improve the coordination of work and informal care and how to encourage men to become family carers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u19	I believe that this moving forward with the law on informal care is a very important issue, but I would like to address the issue of human resources that has been raised here. It is worth noting that the size of personnel is not just a figure in a recommendation or other paper, but must be based on an assessment of the customer’s ability to function and service needs. The provision of these high-quality services requires that the right kind of staff and staff know-how are available at the right place. So more important than just numbers is that we can also think about having the right competent staff in the right place. Of course, it must be said that, not only in terms of promoting the quality of its good management, but also in terms of ensuring that we continue to have enough and skilled staff in the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u20	Mr President! This government bill is justified, it is important. I did not go into politics until a few years ago, and the reason for this was the position of family carers, which I had been able to follow closely and to which the True Finns called for improvement. Now, in this Parliament, it is great to see that there are concerns about family carers across party lines, that there have been excellent speeches. There is a need for days off, but at the same time care must be taken to ensure that the care is not always in a worse condition when in an institution. There's a lot of personal experience about this, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u21	Mr President! Impact assessments are needed. This legislative reform is in itself a good one, but it is great that attention has been paid to this point. However, in 2014, nearly 7,000 children were treated with the help of informal care, i.e. a significant number. I would draw attention to the fact that these impact assessments are also lacking in this family care. In particular, the Central Union of Child Welfare and other child welfare organisations have very strongly taken the view that the interests of the child have gone beyond the interests of the child in terms of business policy. However, I would like to say that this is a good start — but perhaps it is very much focused on services. This good work started last season must be continued. An ambitious objective must be to obtain uniform criteria, premium categories, taxation, to resolve this subjective right as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u22	Madam President! This government proposal is good and it is good that this is now moving forward unanimously. In the case of carers, the key issue is coping. The work of informal care is mentally and often physically burdensome. That is why free and different services are extremely important for the family carer to be able to carry out his work. Now, of course, it must be borne in mind that, for low-income carers with a low budget, those service charges and even the service charges associated with these holidays may become a problem and a problem. But in the long term it would really be important not only to improve these services and freedom, but also to give all family carers the right to family care support, just as we have child home care support, so that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u23	Madam President! I will take the floor later, but in this debate I would like to emphasise the same point that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen made in his wise speech. Family care is an important form of care for the elderly, but it is not necessarily possible to continue to live there until the end of life and other forms of care are needed. It is good to remember that not everyone has a family member who can become a family carer. That is why such different community homes and also family care, which will be discussed in the next paragraph - the reform of the Family Care Act - are really important alongside the issues that we need to develop in this society. But on this point I am delighted that through welfare and health checks and this training and training, among other things, we support family carers in their important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u24	Madam President! Good speeches. I would have told you a little about my own experiences. As a guardian’s lawyer, I have met a lot of family carers with memory problems, and they have a very heavy burden because they deal with its health and financial matters and they have to deal with the whole family’s routine. Many of these discussions have revealed what has been said here that these days are not being used. They don't have the nerve to take something to be treated there, they don't trust that level of service. So it is important that attention be paid to the quality and that people do not change all the time, because, first of all, a person with a memory disorder cannot change the environment — that is why he should be at home — and that person should also be quite the same and the kind that has become dependable. Just for some reason, a memory - stricken person does not trust all people: someone may remind someone of the past or something else. This is also very important when selecting the person who is the nurse. Particular attention should be paid to this. As a Peruvian, I am very pleased that this long-term goal has now been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u25	Mr President! It is very good that in this debate, too, there is a common concern about this foster care arrangement in situations where a family carer could take his statutory days off. This was also something that the committee strongly drew attention to during consultations and expert evaluations. I think it is important for us in Parliament to now also follow the government's leading project on the development of informal care, in which this link between possibly informal care and short-term family care is intended to be strengthened and, in general, to be specified. I would like to say to Mr Nurminen that the word industrial policy in these matters, in connection with family care and informal care, is rarely used, because we know quite clearly that these subsidies from society are still small enough to make it difficult to imagine anyone as a family carer in a business policy sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u26	Madam President! Family care has been developed gradually for over 20 years and the number of family carers' leave days has been increased, the accident insurance provision and the right to child care leave for family members. Thus, development has taken place over the years, but the biggest problem, i.e. the unequal status of family carers, depending on the municipality of residence, has not yet been remedied. Family care is a human form of care that our society needs to be able to invest in. However, Finnish family carers are still a long way from equality. In some municipalities, a family carer receives a reward, a day off and a subsidy, while in others, the only thing you have to fight for is a reward or it may be reduced by a unilateral declaration. The amount allocated to informal care in municipalities also varies from year to year, and new informal care contracts are not always possible to make the necessary amount. In my opinion, the transfer of the costs of informal care to Kela should be seriously considered. It would guarantee equality between carers and eliminate differences in municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u27	Madam President! Family care is affordable, but it is also human. Often the nurse is a spouse who is also elderly. When the minister is not present, I would ask the chairman of the committee or the members of the committee: Did the committee's consultation raise the issue of what I myself have at least received some feedback on, that these people are often very small-time? That reward is small, and often they are still very thrifty. I have received a message that even if you are allowed to use these days, they will not be used when they are subject to a charge. Has this come to light, and do you have any knowledge of how many fail to use these only according to this thrift and small way of living?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u28	Madam President! This law is very important. It's great that the housekeeping and the carers have come up. Personally, I would see that when we have basic and special care, informal care is so important that it could be compared as a form of treatment alongside basic and special care. Of course, the welfare of family carers is essential here, and that is why we in the committee considered it important not only to carry out health checks but also to carry out health and well-being checks, which, at a sufficiently early stage, can take into account the ability of the family carer to cope. And it was also considered important that those holidays can be divided according to the wishes and needs of the carer, even in shorter periods of a few hours, when the time is more frequent. In addition, I would like to highlight some 700,000 workers who also care for their families and 90 percent of them are women. So this is a very important, big thing for the debate to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u29	Mr President! In order for the prospect of freedom to genuinely be realised, I think it is necessary to develop and invest in the quality of substitute care. This substitute care must be in accordance with the needs and quality of the care provided, as the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has pointed out in its opinion. Among these treatments are those of very different ages and needing different kinds of treatment, and therefore there is also a need for different alternatives to substitute care and more home substitute care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u30	Mr President! Family carers are doing work that is extremely important to society. Work is particularly important from a human point of view, but society also saves a considerable amount of money when a person is allowed to be cared for by someone who is close to him at home rather than in an institution. It is right to say here that the euro will bring back EUR 2 for something, if not more. When a family carer is better at his job and caring for his family, he is well placed humanly and society also saves. The fact that, according to the government’s proposal, we are now, among other things, making more holidays possible for family carers is a small step, and more is needed. For example, ownership of holidays is an unusual practice. Who else has to pay to spend their day off? As a representative of the first period, one must therefore wonder how these unanimous improvements are only now being made and not, for example, during the previous term of government. Can anyone answer this question?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u31	Mr President! Indeed, the government of Sipilä, Orvo and Soin has a warm heart, a strong social conscience. This is a very important choice of values for investing in informal care at this difficult time. This equality, uniform criteria, is an important objective. Although there was so much money, not all of this was achieved, and the government has also thought about it, so we have the possibility of creating uniform criteria for family care in areas such as future social services, regions, and thus promoting this equality. I would encourage Members of Parliament to take a look at these key projects, which are taking this issue forward. Indeed, in the future, when the legislation on informal care is being developed, it is important to provide follow-up information on the challenges of informal care, but it is also important to understand that treating an elderly person with a memory disorder is very different from treating a growing, severely retarded child.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u32	Madam President! Of course, improving family carers' day-to-day rights and substitute arrangements are extremely important. However, the issue that has already been raised in this debate, which is equally relevant to family carers and carers, is indeed also a matter of care, especially in the services of the elderly. Reducing the measurement from the current minimum, 0.5 carers per customer, even more, to 0.4, is quite the wrong direction and is definitely being corrected. It is true that, unfortunately, no professional skills or knowledge is sufficient if there are simply too few pairs of caring and assisting hands in relation to the number of people to take care of and the time available to work with high professional ethics. This is in direct contact with family carers and carers that family carers do not want their relatives to be taken to service homes, care institutions if these things are not in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u33	Madam President! As a service supporting the informal care function, a provision is added to the law on the obligation of the municipality to organise welfare and health inspections and social and health services in support of his or her well-being, if necessary. This is a good improvement, as the nurse may be in almost as poor a physical condition as the person she is caring for and the mental resources may be limited. There are cases where a family carer has been sent immediately to the hospital when he brings someone to be treated to the doctor’s office. Mentally ill persons, as well as mentally disabled persons, can behave aggressively and hostilely, so it would also be essential to identify the violence that family carers may have experienced in nursing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u34	I will give you five more replies, after which we will then go to the list of speakers, and then we can continue the debate from time to time. These five persons are Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Juvonen, Lauslahti, Paloniemi, Nurminen. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u35	Mr President! Mr Juvonen and many others here raised the issue of abuse and treatment. Of course, it is quite clear that too few carers are also subject to abuse — I am talking about these Community homes. The difference between 0.5 and 0.4 is that if there are, for example, 14 or 15 residents in the care community, then 0.5 means that there are two nurses on the morning and evening shifts and there is one at night, but if the dimension is 0.4, it means that there is only one nurse on either the morning shift or the evening shift. Everyone can understand that if there are 14 people with memory disorders and they are treated by one nurse on duty, it cannot be quality care, and then it will certainly not be able to meet the needs of a person with memory disorders, no matter how skilled and of a high quality, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u36	I would add to my list just now that before we enter the list of speakers, Mr Haatainen, as chairman of the committee, will make one more reply. — — — — But now, Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u37	Madam President! I have been working in the care of the elderly for years, especially with family carers and their carers, and I have met with family carers who have been rightly concerned here. They are often very tired, and they themselves need some kind of medical visit, they feel bad and do everything they can to help their loved ones, and in that sense I recognize the problem we are talking about here. We have a lot of work to do so that foster care places are such that there is also enough activity and rehabilitative activities and people are faced there in the way they should be faced. We have relatives of different ages — I am talking more about the elderly here, but they also have younger people with memory disorders — and of course the need for care and the expectations that are required of the nursing place are different. It is wonderful that this report raises these important themes in the care centre and takes them forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u38	Mr President! I was wondering what word would describe this law. I would describe this by the word "careful": caring law. That law contains concrete means and also quite concrete money to improve the lives of family carers, everyday life. Each carer does valuable work to care for one’s neighbor so that they can both live in their own home. There have been several speakers who have raised the issue of the ability of family carers, and one can say that this is absolutely the most important thing — above all, the ability of our working carers. They increase national income but at the same time take care of their own fellowman. In their case, particular attention should be paid to endurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u39	Madam President! Mr Nurminen referred to industrial policy when he spoke about family care and the concern of child welfare organisations. I would like to hope that child welfare organisations too will be concerned, above all, that we in Finland are placing children and young people in completely the wrong places — there has been a great deal of research into it. And why is that? Of course, this is partly and largely due to the fact that we still do not have enough family and foster parents. So the palette is not ready so that, in the best interests of the child, it can always be found a suitable place for him to be fostered. But this will hopefully be improved now that the next legislative proposal is this reform of family care: the opportunities will be improved, above all the support for family carers will be increased. In Norway, more than 80% of children and young people are placed in family care because of the departure from Norway of support for family care and family carers — not arguing about whether family care is good or bad, but wanting it to be good as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u40	Mr President! The draft law itself is extremely good and necessary, but I would nevertheless like to emphasise the reference framework in which we are at the moment: even for family carers, it is not for the moment self-evident. Many municipalities may struggle in a difficult economic situation and expect money to be released from the budget. This reflects the fact that we would have needed a comprehensive reform to take this forward. Many here have drawn attention to this speech, in which I specifically raised these interests in the area of family care. I mainly raised the issue of the lack of an impact assessment on children, and this is about increasing the size of the unit and increasing the size of the unit. I wonder, however, whether it is good for me to discuss whether it is in the best interests of the child, and I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u42	Mr President! This Chamber has been concerned about the ability of the carers, and that is really the big question, and that is what this law brings welcome relief in the form of these free people. But I would also like to point out here that too often the situation is that when you receive the support of informal care, then this nurse will have to cope alone. These family carers are by no means professionals, professional carers. They often have to make important decisions about love there in everyday care situations and often suffer from fear and guilt when they experience inadequacy. On this point, I would like to point out that, in order to support these carers, a decent package is needed, that they will survive and that care will then be of high quality. On Monday there was an article from three elderly family carers in Helsingin Sanomat, where they wondered, among other things, that a sleeping drug that was sufficiently effective was stopped from their families and now they all have to stay up all night, both nurses and caregivers. In other words, sufficient support would be needed in the municipalities and in the future, and this concern was also raised in the committee's discussions. This law takes things forward, but hopefully these practices would be such that the home is really safe and good for the nurse as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u43	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u44	Mr President! This bill is a good start to the government's top project, which aims to develop home care for older people and strengthen family care for all ages. We have at our disposal the National Family Care Development Programme published in 2014, which is an excellent manual for the implementation of this project. Care must be taken to keep up with the care and well-being of the carer. The current additions to the free movement of workers and the legal nature of training and health care are a step in the right direction. It is in everyone's interest that the family carer is able and well to make full use of this most human and cost-effective form of care. As the committee has also pointed out, a significant proportion of persons entitled to free informal care are currently not exercising their freedom. Attention should be paid to this. Alternative treatment options must be developed and arranged in such a way that it meets the individual needs of the person to be treated and that the relative can rely on the person to be treated for good care. In-house care costs society good 13000 euros a year with services from one care provider, home care about 28000 euros, improved service housing about 50000 euros and institutional care about 77000 euros. In 2013, informal care for people aged over 70 saved on average EUR 20000 per person in public spending. According to an estimate made in Kela, the calculated value of informal nursing was good EUR 3 billion in 2013. Mr President! According to the European Social Charter for the Protection of the Elderly, ratified by Finland, all older people must have the opportunity to live independently in a familiar environment for as long as they wish and are able to do so. The proposal supports the objective of reducing institutional care and increasing home care and ensuring the possibility for the elderly to live longer in their own home. The development of services for carers can reduce service housing and home delivery services and reduce the need for 24-hour care outside the home. It should be remembered that the proportion of family carers over 65 years of age of all family carers who have contracted with the municipality has increased continuously. In 2012, 67 per cent of those treated with informal care had turned 65. It would therefore be important to anticipate the ageing of family carers, to improve the coordination of paid work and informal care, and to promote opportunities for working-age people to care for their elderly parents. We must respect the family carers who work with far too little compensation and thus save society huge sums of money. The committee's attention to the lack of an impact assessment on children is good. Nearly 7,000 children under the age of 18 were treated with informal care during the year 14 and many of these children are often people with multiple ills. The challenges of caring for a child’s family are different from those of an elderly couple, for example. Adjusting parents to informal care can be very challenging, and each case should be seen individually and in the best interests of the child. Based on the municipal survey, approximately one in five of the applications for informal care support were rejected in 2011. The most common reasons were the inadequacy of the criteria for granting the aid set by the municipality and the inadequacy of appropriations for approximately one in six applications. The development of the informal care project must therefore be pursued rapidly, so that the criteria for informal care support are harmonised and all those meeting the criteria must have a subjective right to support, which should also be revised upwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u45	Madam President! In that fast-paced debate, things came up quite well, and I myself brought up the one problem that I have had in several messages — and when I had a few congressmen from around Finland talking to others, the same message has come to others. So we have these people who take care of their own loved ones, get along very little and are also very thrifty and then miss out on these days, which is also what we are now adding in this proposal. Thank you very much for this proposal in itself, but the most important thing would be for these days to be real for everyone, so that it should not be caught, at least not being able to afford them. But we should also encourage everyone to use them, for it is extremely important for the family carer to be able to cope with it. Family care is affordable, but it is also human. And yes, of course, a home of our own is certainly the most beloved place for all of us to be happy to live for as long as possible. Often this family carer is his own spouse, and often he too is still quite elderly. Last year we had over 43,000 recipients of informal care, of whom 67 per cent were aged 65 or over. This committee's report states that almost 7,000 children under 18 years of age were treated with the help of informal care in the same year, that is to say 2014. And I agree that these impact assessments are extremely important in all legislation. They are not a problem for this government; they have been a problem for a long time now in a wide range of legislative work. In other words, it should always be possible to do them as well as possible so that it is known in advance what effect the decision will have. This proposal therefore proposes to increase the right of family carers to leave. It would be extended to allow all family carers who have entered into a family care agreement to take at least two days leave per calendar month and then, in addition, those who manage round-the-clock would also have three days’ leave. And municipalities must also be obliged to provide the family carer with training, training and health and well-being checks if necessary. This customer payment question is what I raised. We have these very small subsidies for informal care, and because of the small amount of money, when these payments are raised, many people are not using them as free-cutting people, and that is not the benefit of the person to be cared for, but it is not the advantage of this carer, the carer. I therefore hope that these issues will be looked at carefully. This debate has also highlighted the fact that we still have regional differences between municipalities, differences in the way in which informal care is used. Of course, the objective should be that, regardless of where you live, informal care should be available to everyone on the same criteria, on the same principles. It is a good and workable model for caring for those who are close and others who need care, as long as it is done in such a way that it is not obligatory, which has also been well mentioned in this debate. Thank you very much for this presentation to the government. Even such human decisions are made during difficult economic times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u46	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that it is very relieved and good to be here today in Parliament to talk about this very important bill which is now coming about. We have all looked at and seen the family carers and felt their situation and the need to make the improvements that this bill contains. It is great that we can all do this together with the opposition. After all, this government proposal brings all family carers time off. It brings two days off, and for those who have a 24 - day care relative in the home, it accumulates for three days per calendar month. You can also schedule your free time, which is a good thing for a family carer. The law also provides guidance and advice and health checks, all of which are important. It is very important that when a family carer escorts it to a foster care centre, the foster care is timely and correct and takes into account all the needs of it. We still have a lot of work to do to get and find the right place for everyone to take care of. There must be active and rehabilitative and meaningful care available, and also the fact that family caregivers are of different ages. There are younger people with memory disorders and then older ones, all with slightly different needs. Free people are often not used, precisely because the place of care and care do not meet one another. I myself have worked with family carers and carers, and I know the situation, and I also recognise that much remains to be done there. We can also all go to our municipalities to support family carers. In 2011 at the Espoo Council, I took the Council initiative in connection with the free swimming and gym of carers, and from the beginning of this year that initiative finally went through – please also take ideas like this to your hometowns. That means that all family carers with a family care contract will be able to swim for free from the beginning of this year and go to the gym. It has also been welcomed with joy by the younger family carers who have young children to care for at home. There has been mention here of the equalisation of informal care allowance and care fees and the criteria on which they are granted. Indeed, this proposal is intended to bring these issues into line with the regions' territory by 2019, so that the regions can then reflect on how the aid will be determined on an equal footing. We have raised the issue of the nurseship, which is an important issue and must not be ignored. We have an old-age law, Article 20, which defines that the care place must have sufficient staff in relation to the place of care, and, for example, in the case of hospice care, the human resources must be in place. I would like to remind you, however, that we have been talking about this nursing dimension in Finland for years, and I think that last season there was a major deterioration in the quality of services for older people, where the measurements were higher. We do not have the law to define the dimension itself, but we look at the quality recommendation. It was 0.6 to 0.8, but it was weakened at the time of the then government. The quality recommendation was weakened and there is currently 0.5 of that limit. However, when we are realistic, we realize that, in reality, probably very few nursing places can go down this line, and that is something we should all admit. In order to do so, care must then be considered whether it is possible where more than one nurse is needed, where perhaps less. But, as a rule, that weakening cannot be done. I personally believe that resources should be increased even further to places where care is difficult. Today we are celebrating the Hidden Votes Day, which is a prevention day for abuse on a global scale, and I believe that we all have our own responsibility in this matter. We can all act and challenge each other, both in the workplace and in society, to see how the elderly can. It is also possible to raise these issues. No one has to be mistreated, neither in the home nor in the nursing home by anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u47	Mr President! The law on informal care is finally coming up with improvements that family carers have long been hoping for. It is a good thing that all those who have concluded a family care agreement are guaranteed the right to have at least two days’ leave per month and at least three days’ leave for those who take full-time care of their family members or only take short breaks. Liberals are particularly important to prevent the fatigue of working family carers. The family carer’s ark is filled with constant presence, care and work at home. Long-term commitment to care is a burden and a tax on coping. The amendments proposed to the Social Welfare Act strengthen the right of persons who act as family carers without a family care contract. They've been out of the free system so far. However, I believe it is necessary to provide the municipalities with criteria on the basis of which non-contractual family carers are also entitled to leave. The municipality’s own judgment can lead to inequality between people across Finland. The opportunity to break away from the home and the family carer’s everyday life, rest or engage in activities, helps the family carer to cope. However, the fact that the possibility of holidays is now enshrined in the law is not enough. Free persons are easily missed if the care provider or the carer does not find the foster care to be reliable, competent or the care provider to be treated in such a way that the care provider is not treated in such a way that he or she is not treated in such a way that he or she is not treated in such a way that he or she is not treated in such a Rehabilitating work during days off is extremely important so that the family carer does not spend the next few weeks refurbishing the person who is being treated back to the condition he was in before substitute care. People have told a lot of stories like this and have no longer wanted to lay their loved ones down in a ward. Older people undergoing bed-care lose a significant proportion of their skeletal muscles by lying down for over a week. In order for the prospect of freedom to be genuinely realised, foster care needs to be developed and invested in its quality. As the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has said in its report, substitute care must be in accordance with the needs to be cared for, of high quality and rehabilitative. There are very different age groups and people who need different treatment, and therefore different alternatives to substitute care and more home substitute care are needed. Mr President! Now the situation is that there are not enough foster care facilities available for disabled and long-term ill children. Some parents would like to have a nurse home for the rest of the day, because then the child’s surroundings and goods would remain familiar and safe even during parental leave. But where would family carers find such a substitute when there are not enough replacements in nearly all cities and, for example, a help center where a nurse can be provided? In this respect, the residents of different cities are in an unequal position when one is able to reserve a replacement from the assistant centre if necessary and the other is unable to find a replacement and the others are not available. We must find a solution to this problem. It is also regrettable that the reform of the Family Care Act did not carry out an impact assessment on children, although the agreement on the rights of the child requires that the best interests of the child be taken into account as a matter of priority when making decisions on children. The assessment would have been based on the knowledge that around 7000 children under the age of 18 are in informal care. It is also clear that the needs of a disabled child’s care vary widely in different stages of growing up and in different ages. Mr President! In his 2015 report, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has also pointed out the importance of information in his article on support for informal care. The report notes, inter alia, that the authorities are responsible for providing up-to-date, correct and adequate information on the services provided by the municipalities. Information is therefore one of the cornerstones of the availability of informal care services. Those with demanding informal care deserve easy access to, smooth services, and they need to know about them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u48	Mr President! In this brief speech, I will focus in particular on the situation of family members with memory disorders. Comprehensive development of informal care is a very important issue, and this law is a step in the right direction, but work still needs to be continued — it is still not finished. In addition to financial and financial compensation, relatives need information, guidance and training in their informal care assignments. This has been made clear, for example, in speeches made by family members in the Memory Union. A tutored, counseled, supported family carer will be able to care for his loved one longer than a loved one who feels left alone in this demanding care assignment. Also, knowledge of how to get immediate help in difficult situations helps a loved one to cope. Similarly, health and well-being checks should be a self-evident right for each family member. Organisations already have good experience in the training of carers, and this knowledge, skills and know-how should be used in the future. I hope that municipalities do not start to reinvent the wheel, i.e. to start the development of training programmes from the beginning, when already prepared and proven training models and programmes exist. Increasing the freedom of carers is to be welcomed and a good reform, but unfortunately it will not help if the family carers do not use the freedom that belongs to them. Among family carers with memory disorders, it has become clear that there are far too few high-quality foster care and day-care facilities. Often family members feel that in a foster care facility treatment is not of sufficient quality. A sick person may even come home physically or mentally worse than he was when he left home. This change can happen in a day or two. Very often family members point out that not all professionals have the capacity to face people with memory disorders. The place of placement and shift should remain the same, and the treatment should always be rehabilitative. Family care, whether in a family home or in a home of your own, is suitable for many people with a memory disorder in a place of shift care and foster care, so that the family nurse has sufficient capacity to meet and help a person with a memory disorder. When informal care is no longer possible, everyone should have the right to good care in a community home, as was already said here in the debat. I am really concerned about the size of the staff in community homes: 0.4 is definitely too small, because it really means that there is only one carer per 14 inhabitants on duty. I hope that this change will not be put into practice. However, being close and close does not end at this stage either, i.e. when a sick person moves into a community home. Cooperation between professionals and relatives should also continue, as cooperation is important for the success of care and quality of life in the community home. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u49	Madam President! The Government's proposal is a very welcome improvement in the status of family and family carers: support for the ability of family carers and encouragement to become family carers. The number of carers is estimated to increase by around 4,500 by 2020. By developing the services of carers, you can reduce institutional care and support living at home for a longer time in a humane and safe manner close to your loved ones. According to the Ministry's calculations, it would also generate savings of around EUR 180 million in various service costs, such as institutional care. At present, around 43,000 family carers are caring for their loved ones at home, who have a family care contract with the municipality. According to the Ministry, about 15% of them are not entitled to leave. In the future, all family and family carers will be guaranteed at least two days' leave per month. They will also be subject to regular welfare and health checks as well as training and training. In order to ensure that family carers continue to use the days they deserve, foster care facilities should be developed in such a way that suitable care facilities can be found more easily and quickly. Adequate resources, competence, active and rehabilitative care and consideration of individual needs are important factors for a family member to leave with confidence in the foster care place to be treated. Training and training related to informal care activities also contribute to the maintenance of work. Nursing at home can be stressful both mentally and physically, which can be facilitated by professional skills, such as proper work positions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u50	Madam President! In this debate, in the debate, in the debate, a huge number of issues have already been raised, which is why this reform of the law on informal care is a very important issue. We each have our own work history, and that is how different things here in Parliament are relevant to us. I myself have been a nurse before the MPs, especially as an expert in dementia diseases and as a ward manager of a nursing home in a department that also had these day care facilities so that the family nurses could bring a family member there for the duration of their leave. That is why the discussion of this law, and also the discussion of the family care law now under discussion, have been very important to me in this regard over the last few weeks and months. And I would like to emphasise that these investments in family and family care and, in total, this key project, which we are implementing by this government, will make a major contribution to the development of family and family care — EUR 49.3 million in the second draft amending budget of this year, with an annual increase of EUR 95 million from 18 onwards, and EUR 90 million in next year. I am very happy with these contributions. In this context, I would like to point out that while working with family carers and caregivers, there have been some things that have been relevant, that have been highlighted time and again in those customer situations: what the family carer is either able to do or not able to do. And that is precisely what we have been able to focus on in this draft law and to highlight in this report by our committee too. It is extremely important that these welfare and health checks are carried out on family carers. For example, in the case of the care of a family member with a dementing illness, a family carer can easily lose out on the sideline and in just the same way on any other family care situation, taking care of a child or a mentally disabled family member, so that it is important to have someone who checks it out and is able to deal with, for example, fatigue or other illnesses in time that the family carer may have. And so is this training and training: You have to offer a family carer before you have a family care situation — when a family carer wonders if I am up to it, whether I am up to it, where I am getting help — this training and training, that is, even before this actual decision on family care. It must be available to people, family carers who feel it is necessary. Mr President! We currently have some 350,000 informal care cases in Finland. 60,000 of these are binding and demanding, and we have some 43,000 informal care contracts. These legislative changes will be able to cover the need for assistance that is also available to family carers who are not covered by this informal care agreement. This dimension is of enormous importance, because we are able to support and cope with the situation even for others who do not have the informal care agreement with their own municipality. Mr President! In conclusion, perhaps two more things I would like to mention: what has already been said here, namely that the need for long-term care will never disappear — the ability to function in many diseases will inevitably deteriorate at some point, and that is why we need to have access to quality long-term care after family care is no longer available — and as another matter the role of the municipalities in promoting health and well-being after the social welfare reform. This is one of the key issues where municipalities have to do something to support all elderly people in maintaining health and functional ability, whether it be a family carer, a family carer or just an elderly person. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u51	Mr President! This proposal from the government is to be welcomed and is particularly welcome from the point of view of these services. The free must be improved and their flexibility improved. But as has been pointed out here, the problem at the moment is that, in reality, a large proportion of those who are free will not be used. I watched that study by THL that had dealt with these reasons. One was the unwillingness to leave someone to be treated, or the refusal to be treated, or the lack of appropriate foster care. However, these are issues that we must address in the municipalities, and this is a challenge that this law itself does not respond to or interfere with. On the other hand, I would like to highlight the fact that, first of all, it is difficult to obtain it if you are an old family carer. Often for them, these applications are rejected because the nurse is already too old and infirm, but still still manages. The situation in these areas is also unclear and needs to be addressed. Of course, this will also improve the situation of these family carers who manage without a contract. However, these criteria could perhaps have been even stronger with regard to these particular situations, even though the law will improve them. Then there has already been a lot of discussion here about these child impact assessments, which are extremely important, especially in the case of such legislative proposals, which have a very strong impact on children. However, I would like to stress once again the situation of informal care at the moment that it is extremely important to improve these services. But as has been the case during the last period to prepare for this overall reform under the National Family Care Development Programme, it must continue to be regarded as an ambitious objective, shared by both the government and the opposition parties, to be subjective and to reflect on and clarify the criteria and rewards. Of course, this future social reform will certainly bring some relief to it, at least in terms of harmonisation between regions. I have been in Pirkanmaa for a long time on the board and as a support person for carers, and I have seen how our province alone has very different criteria in relation to different municipalities. In certain municipalities, family carers expect funds to be released from the budget and may only dream of these flexible activities of holidays. I would also like to emphasise the focus on which we will still have to invest in in the future. Then I would like to make a few further comments on the future and further preparation with this in mind. For example, we have been talking here about these customer charges, which are very important. The pension intake of a carer who starts family care at working age is considerably lower. This has also led to the fact that low income is very common among carers, and this must also be very strongly borne in mind when considering these customer charges. Another important point is that if we look at the number of potential family carers in the future, i.e. between 65 and 75 years of age, their relative share will continue to decline. So the important point is that who can continue to be the family carer of an ever - older person. That is also an important question. Mr President! I hope that these investments will be strongly reflected in the municipalities, and although they are not directly earmarked, the will here is very good. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this investment will also pay for itself. It tells us that even bigger investments could be made if we were just talking about financial costs. But, above all, this is a very important humane work and a very valuable piece of work in informal care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u52	Mr President! There have already been many important points of view raised in this commendable debate. Perhaps less attention has been paid to this improvement in the position of the government’s family carers, training and training for self-help. I regard this as a new opening in the government's proposal, an important element in the development of informal care. There are a lot of people who wonder, for example, when my own loved one grows older or when the spouse gets ill, if I were to become a family carer, how would I be supported if I did? That is why this coaching model developed by the Finnish NGO field is a very important part of this proposal, and it should be introduced by the municipalities, since it has now been decided to make it fully available for 2018 after the committee's examination of this proposal. I see this as just as important an addition to those health checks or, as has been emphasised here, welfare checks, to taking into account the overall perspective of family carers. This whole package of improvements related to informal care is therefore based on the National Family Care Development Report for the last parliamentary term and, given the tight economic situation, I am very pleased that many individual improvements were brought together in this government proposal, which hopefully will also serve as an incentive to become a family carer. It is quite clear that not everyone will continue to be a family carer, not everyone has relatives who can take care of, but in society we are also sending a strong symbolic message of appreciation for this activity, for example through that day off system, health checks, training and education, and I think that these are the messages that Parliament should send in these days, too, when we speak of the responsibility of one’s neighbour. In-house care is at best in a concrete form.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u53	Madam President! Currently, around 4.5% of people over 75 are in informal care. This proportion has remained the same in recent years, although the national objective has been to increase the share, is spoken of as much as 6 to 7%. At the heart of this reform is the development of a free system for carers. There has been a lot of talk of freedom here and a great deal of credit. It is currently estimated that around 15% of carers are not covered by statutory free law. With the reform, all family carers would be entitled to at least two free days a month. This will, for example, improve the position of family carers who care for their own child, who may not have had the opportunity to resign from the burden of care. For family carers whose nursing work is 24 hours a day and continuously binding, the right to three days of leave is maintained under the same conditions as it is today. The main problem with these family carers is that it is estimated that almost half of the family carers are unable to take advantage of or want to take advantage of their right to leave. The reason has often been that the alternatives offered by the municipality have been considered to be quite one-sided and there has been more frequent provision of institutional care or care in the service housing units and, for example, only a few people have been offered home substitute care. But many people who are being treated do not want to go to foster care outside the home. For example, for people with memory disorders, as has been said here, it has been difficult. In other words, to correct the situation requires, above all, the development of municipal practices. This is first and foremost the aim of key projects, where the diversification of foster care is one of the cornerstones of the leading project for older people. In the context of the implementation of the legislative changes, the expansion of the use of short-term family care is also central to the provision of free-time care for carers. Implementation guidance will pay attention to assignment-related foster care, where a substitute nurse could be, for example, close to the person being treated, a relative or an acquaintance who could come to the home of the person being cared for for for the time being. It is great that this reform will also bring family carers' training, training and welfare and health checks to the level of the law. Welfare and health inspections of carers are particularly important for family carers who are not covered by occupational health care. This can prevent risk factors from being addressed. Mr President! It is estimated that there are currently around 60,000 persons caring for their family or family members who would meet the criteria required by the law on informal care support. About 43,000 of them have made that deal. Some of them are without agreement of their own accord, partly because the criteria of the municipalities for concluding the contract are strict and the funds have to be allocated to more demanding situations. Municipalities can support persons caring for their relatives or relatives without a family care contract by means of services in accordance with the Social Welfare Act. It is now proposed that the Social Welfare Act be clarified so that the municipality can provide daily binding care and care for the person giving care to his/her family or family members on a voluntary basis. The municipality would have the same means of providing free-time foster care as in support of informal care, and free-time services would be subject to a customer charge on the same basis as in support of informal care. I consider this bill and the next proposal on family care to be quite excellent. Now this government is investing once and for all in the survival of family carers and family carers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u54	Mr President! This bill has been awaited. Efforts have been made to improve the status of family carers for several parliamentary periods. Now improving the status of family carers is one of the government's top projects. The aim is to increase the right to freedom, education and training. Attention will also be paid to welfare and health care. The changes to social care would provide for the freedom of the person caring for his/her family or family members and the appropriate organisation of the municipal duty to provide temporary care free of charge. The amendment of the Act on Social and Health Care Customer Fees would, in turn, impose a customer fee on services provided for the free time of the person caring for his or her family or family members on the same basis as in the family carer's free-time services. However, these things do not happen on their own and a lot of work and a lot of money is still needed to implement them. It is therefore important to provide the municipalities with financial resources to achieve these excellent objectives. In the form of central government transfers, the Government provides additional funding to municipalities. An additional EUR 50 million has been earmarked for the development of family and family care in the second draft amending budget this year. Next year, additional funding will be available for municipalities of EUR 90 million and from 18 onwards, a total of EUR 95 million. Madam President! A family-care situation can come up unsolicited and unexpectedly. A sick or disabled child may be born, or a loved one may have a seizure or have an accident, after which there is no return to the former way of life. Often the situation would require a quick response to move things forward. A loved one may be in a shocklike situation, and then the information must be close and easily accessible. Unfortunately, on behalf of the municipalities, the situation has often been that there is no comprehensive knowledge and expertise available, at least on a one-stop shop basis, not to mention comparison now. It is important that a provision on the obligation of the municipality to organise training and training for carers to support the development and skills of the carer is included in the law as a service supporting the nursing function. Indeed, the committee has rightly stated in its report that training must not, however, be a prerequisite for being a family carer. Each family-care relationship is unique and unique. Each family-care relationship also consists of different periods of time: it is the time before family-care, the actual family-care period and the time after family-care. Support and advice may be needed at all stages. That is also what the committee drew attention to in its report. The committee also rightly drew attention to the fact that the municipality should provide appropriate foster care for the duration of the training. Currently, the training of family carers has been organised mainly by the third sector, i.e. by voluntary organisations. The Family Nurses and Closest Association has developed a training programme that has been implemented comprehensively by associations and associations across Finland. The activities have been financed mainly with the support of the Slot Machine Association. I myself am very concerned about how and by whom the training will be carried out in the future. The subsidy from RAY, the Slot Machine Association, cannot be used for the services to be sold. On several occasions I have also brought this concern to the attention of Minister Mäntylä. From the beginning of next year, RAY, Fintoto and Veikkaus will be transferred to a relief centre under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, whose tasks will be further regulated by Government decree. Hopefully, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, there will be an opportunity to support associations and their economic opportunities to continue to operate. Therefore, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that the training of family carers be transferred to the responsibility of municipalities only from the beginning of 2018. In this case, third sector service providers will be able to adapt their coaching activities to enable them to provide services in accordance with the procurement law. Mr President! As we know, the money earmarked for implementing this important key project by the municipalities is not earmarked. We are all concerned that the euro for this project will also be used in the municipalities. All municipal decision-makers have a great responsibility to monitor the use of financial flows in municipalities. It is also important to ensure which services are provided to family carers so that all these good opportunities can be realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u55	Mr President! I would like to point out here that, in fact, informal care is supposed to be one option in the service structure, and it is clear that it is not the right one for everyone. For example, in Helsinki, we have half households living alone, and half of the people in Helsinki are not necessarily close to the family. But it is important that family care is really being developed. It is a choice, and it is important that family carers are really supported. Last January I myself worked in Helsinki in home care and interviewed nurses. Here I would like to say that their main concern about family carers and carers was that if there is an end to power and then there is a need for more than just living in your own home, it may not be available in Helsinki, for example. With a large number of municipal decision-makers here, I hope that there will also be a message that we will then be able to get out of the house in a flexible way so that the family care will not be forced into forced care. So this is a serious challenge. But I would like to say, when it was said about the opposition, that this bill does not provide an answer to the fact that they are free, that this is the opposite, that there are three points here, and I would like to point them out here: Yes, this training and training is exactly where a family carer is trained to identify his own resources and receive services. This is important and it is important that organisations are involved. The second is that it is now written in the law that this substitute care should be provided, and the report contains, in particular, records of its quality — that is another point. And the third is these welfare and health checks. It is an opportunity when a family carer meets a social worker that can also be encouraged and supported to receive these services. In other words, there are three important points here that really can influence the fact that family carers would also accept services and use these important days of leave. This is an excellent bill, i.e. full support from the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party for this government proposal. There is an important value selection support
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u56	Madam President! There's been a good conversation here. In my own speech, I would like to point out these working family carers and their situation, especially the sudden situations when the family carer realises that there is a need, whether short-term or longer-term care, and how the employer feels about such a wish. After all, we have a contract of employment law which provides that the employer must endeavour to organise the work so that the employee can stay for a fixed period to take care of the family member or any other person close to him, and then work and work together there. This provision is what is being used, but it must be admitted that it is not always so effective and that its existence is not known and that it is not in that way able to take the matter forward. I would like to highlight, among other things, such brief moments when a family carer is needed. For example, hospice is one such period, or hospitalisation. It is very important that things are talked about and also informed that employees know that they have the opportunity to stay and care for their loved ones. It is indeed the case that I have met a working family nurse a couple of times with a young child in her home. He has told us how tiresome and demanding and challenging that life can be at times when you feel that you are no longer able, but you have to go to work and then you have to work 24 hours a day, especially at night, to do the nursing work at home. Yes, it is challenging and certainly heavy. This bill is one step towards our supporting and showing that family carers are
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u57	Mr President! As far as this future of informal care is concerned, there is now a government proposal which is full of minor improvements, but, quite rightly, equality between carers has also been raised in this debate. I still regard it as an important, desirable issue, in practice, the Kela transfer of informal care support, which would guarantee equal pay for all family carers. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that now that there is a service in the future that belongs to the province, we will already be experiencing a reform of the harmonisation of practices insofar as the current hundreds of municipal-based organisers are changing to 18 provincial-based organisers and thus the practices become more uniform. I strongly encourage municipalities to adopt their own country's best practice of supporting and comparing family carers, for example, throughout the region. I would also like to support, in this debate, as I recall, Mr Räsänen's assessment of customer charges. It is quite true that it is unreasonable for a customer fee to be paid, even if it is the smallest, if you use your own statutory day off. I hope that, in further development, we will be able to exclude those customer fees and thus make the threshold for exercising this right of leave even lower, in addition to the fact that the foster care that has been raised here would be more effective. If one should say about family care two big development targets, which will certainly be looked at closely from now on, then the first is this equality between family carers and the equality between family carers through them, and the second is this position of family carers of working age, because the means for that are a little different from those of people who, for example, take full-time care of their families during their retirement age. A small improvement in this is already the recognition and support of the low level of self-interest in this law by the public sector, as it were, a step in the direction of family ownership.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u58	Madam President! This debate has already highlighted the fact that we in the committee and in Parliament are aware that there are very different kinds of self-help and family-care situations — different ages, different types of care — but I would like to raise one more point which we also raised in this report: When we consider it important that all decision-making and better law-making are based on existing knowledge, one thing we also need more information about is remoteness. We certainly have thousands, thousands of situations in Finland, where family or siblings of working age, who are in different localities, often take great care of the survival of their loved ones in another locality and try to make their own housekeeping from there with the resources they have. In the future, we need to take more and more account of this remoteness and reflect on how we are reforming these structures even with the reform of the social media, how we are improving the flow of information and how we are developing, among other things, these confidentiality provisions in such a way that they do not at least prevent loved ones from caring for their loved ones, who live far away.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u59	Mr President! Representative Juvonen commended the family carers who were working. Often it may be that a working family carer does not even dare to say that he is a family carer at his workplace, so that his work input at the workplace is not raised as if on a stick nose and for special consideration. It should be borne in mind that if a parent stays to care for a child under 10 years of age who is suddenly ill, it is considered to be generally acceptable and otherwise accepted by the workplace and does not call into question that right. This temporary leave should also be granted and applied more widely to these working family carers, thereby guaranteeing them the opportunity and acceptance to do both important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u60	General Center... Well, there's still Congressman Juvonen on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u61	Mr President! At the last minute, I pressed the button when Mr Louhelainen made such a good speech, suggesting that even in short need of care, the employer should give this leave. After all, the Employment Contracts Act is mandatory, which means that the law should go. True, the text of the law is always difficult to interpret. When you say 'you have to strive', you can interpret it so that, well, let's try it now whether you succeed or not and maybe you have to take your own days off or how you can get it off. But it is so that when it is recorded in the law then in 2011, that law should be observed and observed. Indeed, we have more and more forms of care moving home, and I am still raising these hospice situations. There is a model in Sweden that allows for a short period of leave and, for example, in the case of hospice care, it has been used. These are very important themes and, sooner or later, we will all have to think about these issues ourselves when our own loved ones get older, how they are treated, and it is certainly very everyday for many at that point to be a remote nurse.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u62	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 10/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u63	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Family Care Act. The aim is to increase family care by developing the conditions and incentives of the family care system. The proposal proposes to increase the minimum care allowance for family carers to EUR 775 per person being treated. The right of family carers to leave shall be increased from at least 1 working day to 2 days per calendar month in which they have served as family carers on the basis of an order agreement for at least 14 days. The committee points out that raising care fees, strengthening service and support measures, as well as increasing the number of leavers, are likely to increase family care and support the survival of family carers. According to the proposal, the municipality must provide for a two-yearly health and well-being check-up for the management of the main activity and for other family carers who are assigned to the assignment, if necessary. In addition, the municipality must provide the family carer, if necessary, with services in accordance with the Social Welfare Act in support of his or her well-being. The committee considers the organisation of regular welfare and health checks to be justified in order to address potential risk factors for the well-being of a family carer or the investment of family care as early as possible. Mr President! According to the explanatory memorandum, the operating conditions for full-time family carers will also be improved by raising the maximum number of persons to be treated to six, which would better enable both parents to act as full-time family carers. The increase in the maximum amount to be taken care of in a family home also applies to the organisation of family care for children. According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, in particular, any action taken by public or private social care, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies concerning children must primarily take into account the best interests of the child. The primacy of the best interests of the child is also reflected, inter alia, in the fundamental principles of the Child Welfare Act and in the provisions on the selection of a place of foster care. The Government proposal does not include an assessment of the impact of children. In the impact assessment of the proposal, it would have been important to take into account the specific needs of children who are placed, e.g. due to a child’s illness or disability. The committee notes that the requirement for an assessment of the effects on children is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child mentioned above. The committee stresses that the family care legislation and other provisions affecting the status of the customer must give priority to the interests of the person being placed in the care of the family. Investing a child and young person in family care is a process that requires special expertise in child protection. The municipality’s task is to ensure the overall situation of the family home and the ability to care for all children in the family home in their interests. A family nurse is not entitled to a certain amount of care, but the municipality will decide on the investments in family care. When making an investment, consideration should be given to whether other members of the family home accept family care and are entitled to an equal status with other members of the family home. The committee notes that the amendment of the law allowing the increase in the maximum number of people to be treated does not automatically mean that there are more than four people to take care of in each family home. The number of family carers to be treated must continue to be proportionate to the number of family carers, the care and upbringing needed for them and the nature of the activity. In the past, Parliament has adopted a statement in connection with the adoption of the Family Care Act, which requires the Government's next Family Care Act to have effects on different population groups and on different forms of family care and on the impact of family care on the cost development of municipalities. The Committee notes that the impact of the proposed amendments to the Family Care Act should be monitored in the same context. Mr President! The committee attaches importance to the development of social security for family carers and of free legal provisions and to the strengthening of the quality of family care by improving family care support, as proposed by the government. The committee is in favour of adopting the draft law as amended. The report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u64	Madam President! As I have already said in the referral debate, today's package for the development of informal care and family care is the most important reform of social services during this government term. In its size class, the government's annual investment in developing informal care and family care is more significant than, for example, during the previous government term in the implementation of the entire Act on Elderly Services. Now a considerable additional allocation has been earmarked for the development of informal care and family care, reaching a maximum of nearly EUR 100 million per year from 2018. The development of elderly family care has been the focus of development in many government programmes in recent years. Thus, family care is now being established as part of the service system for older people. Several municipalities and regions have developed or are developing guidelines for the functioning of family care for older people. In addition, as part of the main project measures, regional centres for family and family care are being set up, such as the recruitment and training of family carers. Therefore, municipalities as providers of services are currently very well prepared to develop family care. Madam President! According to the legislative amendment now under discussion, the minimum fee for family carers in a mandate relationship will be increased and the right for family carers to leave will be increased to two days instead of one working day. The proposal also proposes to amend the Family Care Act in such a way that the maximum number of people to be treated in a family home could be six under the conditions laid down by law. Full-time family carers should be offered the possibility of a health and well-being check at least every two years and other family carers, if necessary. By developing family and family care, society saves a significant amount of expensive institutional care. The aim of the amendments is to support the survival of family carers and family carers. The focus of care can only be transferred to support services at home if family and family carers are adequately cared for. According to the findings of home nurses, the performance of elderly people in family care has improved in a few weeks: Insecurity, anxiety, and depression have decreased. Thanks to the regular basic rhythm of daily life, medication, including sleeping pills, has been reduced. Medical visits and hospital sessions have decreased. Familying, meaningful everyday life and doing business in the home have added to the experience of meaning in one’s own life. Getting attention as oneself has reduced the need for attention through what is known as the “symptom. ” The experience of family carers and their loved ones in short-term family care has also been very encouraging. "Olilotto win this," pictured by a short period of family carein terms Mr President! I'm a little surprised at this troll of protest. In the view of those who object, it is not acceptable that six persons can be placed in family care if the couple are full-time family carers and at least one is qualified. In the past, this amount was seven and did not cause any particular problems. Flexibility was felt, on the contrary, very good. I think it is in the best interests of the child that couples can also act as family carers and take care of, for example, child therapy visits, meetings with biological parents, hobbies and so on and so on. In the past, the municipalities decided in any case how many children can be placed in the family, and the municipalities decide in exactly the same way, even with this new law on this matter. Family nurses don't do it themselves. Every child and young person has the right to a family. This fundamental right deserves to be upheld, and I am particularly concerned about the implementation of this fundamental right. So we need more family carers and foster parents. This should be the first thing in a country where children, as I said earlier, are placed far too much in the wrong places, that is, in the best interests of the child, in places they would not need. This is something that needs to be resolved now, and with these measures, the number of faith, family care and foster parents will also increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u65	Mr President! The bill before us is indeed an important choice of values for the present government. It is important that the government strongly pursues the agreed goal of developing family care for all ages and strengthening family care in the Government Programme. It is very important, it is in the best interests of the child if we talk about children — or any Finnish people of any age — that our service structure includes family care, and now family care is really strongly strengthened and taken forward. The aim of this bill is in particular to develop family care for the elderly and to establish family care as part of the service system for the elderly. This bill also strongly supports family care and the possibility of foster care in families. This is in the interests of everyone in Finland, i.e. the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party especially thanks for this package of laws. This is part of the work that the current government is doing, that is to say to make the service structure more human and human, but there are also economic aspects here, that is to say, the development of family care also has the potential to generate savings, and this is an important issue in this state's economic situation. It is estimated that the impact of the reform will be about EUR 7 million in savings for municipalities next year and will increase to around EUR 30 million in 2020, with a target of around 1500 people in family care. These are, of course, objectives, and in the future we will see how we can achieve this. But the goal is clear, and the government and the government parties are working hard to achieve it. It is gratifying that the family carer’s fee will be increased and the family carer’s right to leave will be increased and those welfare health checks will also be introduced as the occupational health care of a family carer and will ensure the maintenance and strengthening of the carers and thereby improve the quality of family care. Mr President! This bill also contains a point where the operating conditions of full-time family carers are improved. This is justified in this bill by raising the maximum number of people to six in order to enable both parents to act as full-time family carers better than the current situation. This point has sparked debate and reflection, and the opposition has also objected to this. That is why it is really important to say, as we also say in the report, that, on the basis of the Family Care Act and other provisions affecting the status of the customer, the child and the young person are always to be considered first and foremost, and the best interests of the child and the young person should always be taken into account. When a child is placed in family care, it requires special knowledge of child welfare and is a demanding process. The municipality’s task is to ensure the overall situation of the family home and the ability to care for all children in the family home in their interests. That is the case, and this is also the case with the report. It is clear that the family carer is not entitled to a certain amount of care, but that the municipality — that is, the municipality — will continue to decide on the investments in family care. When making an investment, consideration should also be given to whether other members of the family home accept family care and are entitled to an equal status with other members of the family home. This is an important issue, it relates to the best interests of the child, and it has also been strongly put into this report. Thus, a change in the law that allows for an increase in the maximum number of people to be treated does not automatically mean that there are more than four people to take care of in each family home. I would like to point out here that, in the context of the programme for the change of children and families, as part of the development of child welfare, new service and operating models are to be created for child and family-specific child welfare work and for the supervision and supervision of foster care. This is also an important part of developing family care. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of that statement, which was also raised by the chairman of the committee, namely that Parliament has adopted a statement which really requires the government to monitor the impact of the Family Care Act on different groups and types of family care and also the impact of family care on the cost development of municipalities. This whole package and this bill must be closely monitored. In conclusion, on child impact assessments, as in the debate on referrals, it would have been important, particularly with regard to this last package, that the explanatory statement should have assessed the possibility of increasing the number of children to be treated, but when it was not, we did so in the committee's report. I warmly support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u66	Mr President! To clarify these previous speeches, Mr Paloniemi said that the number of people in the family home now rises from four to six, but this seven has been in a professional family home and is still in it. After all, this was the subject of a debate in the committee that there is a risk of blurring the concept of professional family care compared to this other family home, which is an ordinary family, where children are to be placed. For this reason, this difference should be seen as clear, because professional family care is that there must be professionals, it is supervised, it is supervised by the supervisory authorities and it is much more organised. This was also a cause for concern in these various opinions, and it was also related to this increase in the number. That is what the Socialist Group in the Committee on Economic and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u67	Mr President! I attach great importance to this development of family care, a good way of providing care for children and young people, disabled people and, in future, elderly people too, which is a very good thing. But on the same point I would draw attention to what Mr Haatainen mentioned above about this increase in the number of children, especially now from four to six, and to the blurring of this family care limit as to whether it is a family care or a professional family care. I would like to thank Mr Sarkomaa for his excellent speech, for making the point that it is the municipal social services that will continue to decide on this number of children in family care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u68	Mr President! I did not ask for a reply, but I can, of course, give a reply here now, but the floor is the next one. I welcome the debate here, and Mr Sarkomaa in particular pointed out that the municipality decided on the number of children in family care. It is also good that we have a statement here that the impact of the Family Care Act on different population groups and different forms of family care will be monitored and seen how it will also affect the cost development of municipalities. This family care law has brought the family nurses to light. We certainly have not understood how a home can be the best place for that elderly person to live there in family care, but it may also be the best place to do the work, so to speak, with older people or young people and children, that is to say, with the skills and skills being introduced in the home environment. This is a great thing that older people can spend their lives at home, at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u69	I thought I saw Mr Juvonen getting up because of the reply, but it seems that I was mistaken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u70	Mr President! I would like to remind Mrs Hatainen that, when this number was seven, it was exactly family care, not professional family care, in relation to assignments. I do not understand the confusion that suddenly arises here, because a professional family carer often operates on institutional permits and is supervised by Valvira, among other things, and the municipalities monitor family care in exactly the same way. These are very clear things. And if we talk about the quality of family care, then I say that quality does not come from whether one is to be treated or four or five. It is because the right people seek family care, suitability, that is, training, and in particular that municipalities provide the support services needed by family carers, foster parents. After studying these breaks in treatment, it has been precisely that the municipalities have not provided these support services that are also stated in the law. It is an absolutely essential task for the municipalities to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u71	Mr President! I am talking about the number of children being treated at the same time in a family home. It is now rising; it is four in the law that is now in force, and it is now six.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u74	Mr President! But here I was just trying to say that before it was counted to four, it was seven — I myself have been making these legislative proposals in this house too — and it was specifically family care for assignments. What I am trying to say now is that what happens now is that there are so many problems and borders are blurred. Vocational family care is still professional. It is controlled by Valvira, the majority of which certainly operate on plant permits, it is its own entity. But there's no heaven that's ever fallen on your neck. When assigned family care was allowed to take seven, probably in very few places at the time, but it was possible, and it was flexible. It's six now, and that's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u75	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u76	Mr President! Thank you again for that reply. You just saw me with a good eye: I stood up when I was too quick to make this speech. But this one's up now. So it was a good thing that I also had the answer to make. So the government proposal is extremely good. This increases the minimum premium for family carers, increases the right to leave, and indeed the amount to be treated may be six, under certain conditions. Full-time family carers will also be able to have a welfare and health check at least every two years. I must stress what I have already said in that reply that knowledge will be introduced. Then, when there are six persons in the family home to be cared for, section 6 states that they must also be qualified for those who work there, or at least one of them. Home is the best place to live, live and be, and it's also for the elderly. It is great that during this parliamentary term we have managed to bring forward the bill on informal care and now this proposal on the Family Care Act, and we will make it possible to do so in the future. I am not saying that family care is always easy either, because there are challenges there and there must then be eyes and resources for coping with and supporting it. One of the things that emerged during the committee debate was the nighttime situation. As an old night nurse — I have spent 13 years working nights — I know those situations, and when things are going on, it can also be nighttime, and then there is a need for help and resources, and often it can be hard to cope with it. But the purpose is to get things done and to get advice and guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u77	Mr President! Family care is one form of community home housing. Other community homes include, for example, group homes and subsidised service housing — if it is built as a home. Unfortunately, not all service housing currently meets the criteria for community home housing. After all, home is more than walls: it is a proper attitude, a cosy atmosphere, and a meaningful thing to do. The Family Care Act was introduced last season, and some changes are now being made to the law. Now good changes are made, but also less good ones. A good change is, for example, increasing health and well-being checks on family carers and investing in well-being anyway. However, I agree with the protest that increasing the number of children in family care is not a good change, and it is not primarily in the interests of the children. In this point, making an assessment of the effects on children would have been really important before such changes are made. I personally follow family care mainly from the point of view of older people, especially those with memory disorders. For many people with memory disorders, family care is ideal, and I know a number of people whose quality care has not been successful anywhere else: once they have had access to family care, a very challenging memory disorder has found the right place for itself, that is, a home. On the other hand, family care is also ideal for the implementation of shift care, and this has also been observed especially in patients with memory disorders. As I said at the outset, home is more than walls and especially important things in the home are atmosphere and relationships. In the case of people with memory disorders, this means that family care must be provided with adequate training and ability to meet the specific needs of people with memory disorders. Good will or motivation alone is not enough, for meeting and helping a person with a memory disorder requires special knowledge. That is why it is necessary to train for a job as a family nurse. Work guidance, peer support and continuous continuing training are also important issues in terms of work and occupational development. Mr President! Family care is not suitable for everyone, and it is therefore important that each person who needs treatment can individually decide what is the best option for this particular person. It makes sense to increase family care, but at the same time we also have a shortage of other community homes, especially those with special competence in the treatment of people with memory disorders. Mr President! Family care is a relatively new issue and, therefore, there is far too little information that has been studied about the issue — both the possibilities and its critical points. I therefore hope that research will be carried out on this important issue shortly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u78	Mr President! The Government proposes to amend the Family Care Act by increasing the minimum fee for family carers with a mandate and increasing the right of family carers to leave. Full-time family carers should be offered the possibility of a health and well-being check at least every two years and other family carers, if necessary. These are good improvements to the current situation. I also consider the development of family care to be a good way to provide care for children and young people, disabled people and, more often, older people in the future. The amendments improve the ability of a family carer and the ability to take better care of his or her care. Mr President! In all respects, however, I cannot agree with the government's proposal. The Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left have protested against the committee's report. The Government proposes that the maximum number of persons treated in a family home should be raised to a maximum of six persons under the statutory conditions, if the care is provided by at least two persons living in a family home who are eligible under the law. The maximum number of children to be treated would otherwise remain four, including children under school age living in the same household and other persons requiring special care or care. The amendment proposed in the Government proposal is only justified in the section describing the social impact, which states that the change would improve the operating conditions of full-time family carers. The impact assessment has been incomplete as, for example, the impact of changes on the everyday life and status of those treated has not been fully addressed. Financial reasons alone and improving the working conditions of family carers are not sufficient grounds for increasing the number. The development of family care should always be done primarily in view of the needs to be cared for. In connection with the adoption of the Family Care Act, the committee stated in its report that the limitation of the maximum number of children to be treated in the family has been made in the interests of children. The children to be placed come from very different backgrounds, and they often have traumatic experiences behind them that add to the need for treatment. These children, who have often experienced hard times, need a safe adult’s presence, care and peace, and this is difficult to offer if the number of people to be treated is increased. Mr President! At present, the Family Care Act allows for a derogation from the ceiling for adult care and could be applied in the case of family care for older people. This will continue to guarantee the status of children and young people in family care. In addition, it should be noted that the current Family Care Act also allows an exception for minors when it comes to giving care to siblings or members of the same family. We consider it essential that the number of people to be treated is always proportional to the number of family carers and to the care and upbringing needed and to the nature of the activities to be carried out. Mr President! In the detailed examination, we propose an amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u79	Mr President! This amendment to the Family Care Act, the government proposal, and the amendment to the Family Care Act, which has just been discussed here, have gone hand in hand with the committee. In particular, both laws aim to find alternatives to enabling older people to care more and more in homes. This draft law on family care is aimed in particular at developing family care for the elderly and thus contributes to the amendments to the Family Care Act that have just been discussed here. It is seen, in particular, that short-term family care provides opportunities for good family care during the family carer’s leave. During the second period, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health visited the family home in Muuruvesi in Juankoski, and last August this current Committee on Social Affairs and Health visited the family home in Kuopio. What we saw there certainly inspired us, and we were all sure that this is the kind of care we want for our elderly. That's why it's so great that this bill is here now. At the moment, only around 400 of these elderly people are being treated in family care, and the aim of this government’s top project is to increase family care for the elderly to around 1500 people by 2020. In order to achieve that goal, the government’s proposal to amend the Family Care Act is absolutely necessary. Family care for the elderly is a binding task, which is why welfare and health checks in particular and adequate freedom must be ensured by legislation. Mr President! The changes now made to this family care law are crucial to the recruitment of older family carers. A binding role, based on a mandate relationship, requires a signal from family care legislation, specifically of support for society. The support ensures the quality of family care and ensures that family care meets the needs of the elderly. The humanised form of family care brings considerable cost savings to our society, which must also be directed and directed towards the development of support for family carers. Mr President! Here, in fact, the only thing that might raise opposition to dissent in this committee is this increase in investment for children and young people, making it possible for it to be more than the four that are currently in the law. I would like to remind you that the placement of children and young people in family care is already a process which requires special knowledge of child protection and will continue to be so in the future. The choice of a foster family for a child and young person is up to the municipality and can be decided at the moment and in the future. The family nurse can never decide how many children and young people are to be placed in her family, so there are already and will be in the future. The municipality’s task is to ensure, in cooperation with the family carer, that the family’s capacity and overall situation are sufficient for how many children and young foster families, and to ensure that the investment is in the best interests of each child in the family, both at present and in the future. Mr President! I would also like to stress that: As a special expert on this matter, the Family Care Association considers it necessary to amend Article 7 of the Family Care Act. Family care legislation should allow for flexible use of family care instead of too strict a restriction. Increasing the maximum number of people in family care to six will also help recruit new foster families. We want more and more children, young people, the disabled and the elderly, when they cannot live on their own, to receive as family-friendly care as possible, and that is why these reforms in the Family Care Act are necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u80	Mr President! Of course, it is in the best interests of the child that the couple can also be at home as full-time family carers, foster parents, that is quite clear. The municipality always — and still always — decides whether the family has the capacity to invest up to six, but of course the municipality can invest four or less, as it has done to date. The question then is that the municipality can invest less and pay a higher premium. But I do not see the harm in having two full - time family carers make a living from that work. I suppose we are also demanding a living for other groups who carry out a valuable task 24/7. There are a great deal of therapy visits and so on in the children, as I mentioned in my speech. The fact that the two, including the couple, are able to be full-time family carers with children is certainly important, of course it is a good thing, but it is not necessary: the municipalities decide how to invest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u81	Mr President! The legislation on family and family care has today been dealt with here in Parliament as a single package, different points, but these are the same whole. The development of family and family care is one of the key objectives of Juha Sipilä's Government in social and health policy. Family care is a more economically advantageous alternative to institutional care, whether it be children, young people or elderly people, and it is also a humanely much better option than living and living in an institution. I think it is a very positive thing and a great thing that this key project is now moving forward in this way, and this must be given strong support from us representatives. It is important that in the future more people who need help get access to family care, and when we look at this whole, as if this social activity outside institutions, it would be important for us to find those people who are doing this family care work, even without the support of society at the moment. We must keep family and family care across party boundaries high and help this very valuable work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u82	Mr President! This family care law is very important and, overall, it is a good thing that family care rises and it has the opportunities it can offer under domestic conditions, both for the elderly and for the care of children. The previous speeches have been very good here, as have the debate in committee. I have pointed out myself many times that the most important thing is to take into account the overall situation, the care of those in family care, the need for care, as well as the conditions of the family care place, i.e. the overall situation. I see that this is a very good opportunity to raise the number of people treated to six when two are caring for the family. All in all, this is a form of treatment, which hopefully will increase, and hopefully the welfare of family carers will also be given sufficient attention. I salute this change with joy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u83	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 11/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u84	Mr President! As chairman of the committee, I am presenting this report, which is quite concise. It is proposed to amend the Act on State aid for basic municipal services, which takes account of an increase of 0.14 percentage points. This is linked to the development of family and family care so that these new, expanding tasks can be replaced by 100% by municipalities. This report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u85	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 7/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u86	Mr President! The EU Tobacco Products Directive now tightens up the regulations on the manufacture and packaging of tobacco products and extends the scope of regulation. The Directive will be implemented through the new Tobacco Act and the legal acts adopted pursuant to it. At the same time, reforms outside the scope of the Directive are proposed. Based on the Directive, the proposal proposes new regulation, including on the substances and emissions of tobacco products and the obligations of manufacturers and importers. The distinctive scents and flavours are prohibited from cigarettes and wrapping tobacco. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health attaches great importance to restricting the use of flavourings, particularly in terms of reducing the attractiveness of smoking and preventing children from smoking. According to the proposal, e-cigarettes and nicotine liquids used in them will be regulated in line with tobacco products. It is also justified that certain provisions on the quality and safety of nicotine liquids also apply to nicotine-free liquids in e-cigarettes. For example, reducing the attractiveness of e-cigarettes can prevent nicotine poisoning in young children and make e-cigarettes a new channel for nicotine addiction to minors. The committee also stresses that the use of steam in electric cigarettes can, according to preliminary studies, pose health risks that are not yet sufficiently known. The possession of nicotine liquids is prohibited for persons under 18 years of age, but no criminal offence is proposed. The committee draws attention to the fact that the rules proposed by the police do not have the power to confiscate these products. In the future, it is also appropriate to examine the need for regulation in the context of the confiscation procedure when assessing the reform of the penal instruments. The proposal also proposes a ban on the sale, supply and import of all non-smoking tobacco products. It is also proposed to introduce stricter rules for tobacco substitutes, such as the so-called ‘energy-rich’. The Committee considers that comprehensive regulation of non-smoking products and tobacco substitutes is necessary in view of the health risks involved and, in particular, of the fact that there are indications of an increase in their use among young people. Mr President! According to the performance, housing communities are allowed to apply from the municipality for a smoking ban on the balconies belonging to the apartments of their building, the outdoor spaces in use of the apartments and the interior of the apartments. The municipal authority should impose a smoking ban if the structure and other circumstances of the holding allow the movement of tobacco smoke from that holding to another equivalent holding. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to the fact that the draft law does not distinguish between occasional and minor movements of smoke, for example. According to the opinion, the imposition of a smoking ban should be accompanied by conditions relating to the harmful effects of the introduction of tobacco smoke and the importance of the housing disadvantage caused by this. On the basis of the opinion, the committee proposes to amend the proposal so that a ban must be imposed when smoke can be introduced into the premises mentioned in the section of the law, except exceptionally. The committee considers that it is not appropriate, in terms of the objectives of the Tobacco Act and the promotion of health, to impose a ban on other conditions proposed by the Constitutional Committee. In the supplementary government proposal, it is proposed not to smoke within a private vehicle when a person under the age of 15 is present, but it is not proposed that a violation of the ban be punishable. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the differences between the proposed ban on car smoking in 2010 in the committee's assessment of the proposal will substantially reduce the constitutional problem of the ban in relation to the general conditions for the restriction of fundamental rights. However, the committee pointed out that the government's proposal contains features of over-regulation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the imposition of a ban can increase the awareness of smokers of the harmful health effects of passive exposure to smoke, particularly on children. It is estimated that the ban can further reduce smoking in the car, and its regulation has a broad population support. The committee considers it appropriate for children to adopt a supplementary proposal for a law as amended. The draft law also prohibits the sale and supply of all non-smoking tobacco products and imports. In the case of imports of passengers, a quantitative limit would be set, which is proposed to be smaller than at present. In addition, in order to prevent illicit trade in oral tobacco, it is proposed to set a daily limit for imports of passengers. The Committee considers the proposed restrictions on imports to be justified, but notes that, for example, efforts must be made to harmonise the time limits for imports in the future. Mr President! The Committee believes that the proposed provisions will help to reduce the attractiveness and dependence of tobacco and nicotine products, prevent children and young people from smoking and protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke. The provisions of the Tobacco Products Directive were to enter into force on 20 May 2016. However, the law will be postponed for more than a month because of the additional proposal made by the government. The committee also took account of this postponement in the transitional provisions. Both the implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive and the entry into force of national provisions as soon as possible is, in the view of the Committee, important. The committee supports the adoption of legislative proposals as amended, and the committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u87	Mr President! Finland has an ambitious goal of being a tobacco-free country by 2040. Experts also believe that this objective can be achieved by 2030, as long as new measures to limit and prevent smoking are introduced. For my part, I have closely followed the progress of this tobacco law, which we are now dealing with. It's time for the Social Affairs and Health Board's financial statements. The positive aspect of the tobacco bill is that smoking in the car in the presence of a child is prohibited. Protecting a child from tobacco is an acceptable and important objective. I wonder, though, how the ban on smoking in the car works in practice, as it was not presented as a criminal offence. The law without sanctions may be ineffective. On something this important, I wouldn't do that. Similarly, the ban on balcony smoking was seen as very important. It allows the municipality to impose a periodic penalty payment on a person who violates the prohibition on balcony smoking in the housing company. Nor is it a long way from being able to take over a dwelling, for example, if it is not complied with, on the basis of the rules of the housing companies. In the future, we will certainly see disputes about the fact that evictions have been made on the balcony as a result of the ban on smoking. If there are ways to ban balcony smoking, why would we not use the same logic to protect children from harmful tobacco smoke by even providing a tool for a periodic penalty payment? This is what I was thinking. Unfortunately, the tobacco bill is illogical in some other respects. The law will make it difficult for a smokeless society to reach. How do we expect to achieve the objective of non-smoking if the new content of the legislation is, in part, dictated by the tobacco industry? The considerable tightening of the regulation of e-cigarettes compared to the current situation makes it difficult to stop smoking for many. The number of electric smokers in Finland is estimated to be over 100,000, and the number is increasing at a significant rate. According to some estimates, as many as 90 percent of users of e - cigarettes are former smokers. So e-cigarettes do not seem to be the gateway to smoking, but rather the opposite. Millions of people have been freed from addiction to tobacco and nicotine. This is a development that we must definitely support and encourage by means of legislation. The Ministry's officials' assurances about the electronic cigarette gate to smoking were totally unfounded, but unfortunately they were good enough for the committee. The danger of e-cigarettes and the harm to health have been highlighted mainly on the basis of images. However, there is no proper research in Finland or in the West that an electric cigarette is by any means more dangerous than smoking. On the contrary, even in medical circles abroad, its benefits have been seen to be so significant that people have been urged to move from smoking to electric tobacco. The stories of explosive electrical devices and the formation of popcorn lungs are like manna for tobacco companies. However, the difference is the truth. Mr President! The Members of Parliament have received a great deal of feedback that the Tobacco Act should have an adequate transitional period for its entry into force. Otherwise, for example, there is a negative talk about the protection of property and its intervention. Without a transitional period, the stocks of traders and importers threaten to remain in the hands of entrepreneurs. The argument that the timetable of the directive has been known to importers, for example, is not sufficient. Every entrepreneur has the right to trade and cannot stop trading until the law enters into force. In general, such legislation also has a transitional period from the point of view of these entrepreneurs. However, the more important aspect for me is that the transition period also applies to 100,000 e-cigarette owners. If the owner of an e-cigarette does not have a transitional period, after the entry into force of the Act, he will not be able to acquire these accessories for the equipment he has invested in. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has taken note of the need for transitional periods and entry into force in the preparation of the Tobacco Act for electronic cigarettes. This is a good thing. With regard to e-cigarettes, the following proposals were made in committee on the entry into force and transitional periods: (1) Flavouring liquids may be sold until 1 January 2017 and shall then be prohibited. 2) Finnish online stores are banned as soon as the law enters into force. 3) Cross-border distance sales may be made only until 1 January 2017. 4) The ban on the display of e-cigarettes — i.e. on the shelves of the store — does not begin until 1 January 2017. And the fifth point, according to the example: 5) Changes in the retail packaging of electric tobacco for tobacco enter into force on 20 May 2017. The transition period and the principle of asset protection appear to be on the face of it. In fact, however, the transitional period does not apply to electronic tobacco equipment and parts thereof at all, i.e. electronic tobacco equipment which does not comply with the directive, i.e. the hundreds of products sold and sold in Finland — because, apart from one product, two products have not yet been sold in Finland at all. The unfortunate thing about the committee's proposal is that, in the process and in the minds of the members of the committee, there has been a view or opinion that there should also be a transitional period for electronic tobacco equipment on the shelves of the store after the entry into force of this law. Finally, the wire version of this: in practice, when the law comes into force, it means that traders will, first of all, be able to keep those products on the shelf; secondly, they will be allowed to keep the packaging of the products in question on the shelf, but thirdly, they will not be allowed to keep any equipment in the packaging unless they comply with the directive. That is where we have property protection, and this, if that is unreasonable. Mr President! As it has generally been thought that the transitional period would also apply to these products, which are there within the package, I think it is important that this problem should be corrected in plenary. This is practically in the hands of the chairman of the committee, Tuula Haatainen, and why not also in the hands of Hannakainen, the vice-president of the centre. It would be reasonable to correct this here with one amendment. Article 122 says: "The changes in the retail packaging of electric tobacco for tobacco will come into force on 20 May 2017." In practice, this text goes as follows: "Electronic cigarettes which have not been completed with nicotine liquid and whose retail packages do not comply with Article 36 and the rules adopted pursuant to it may, without prejudice to those provisions, be sold and otherwise handed over to consumers 20. until 20 May 2017, if the products have been manufactured or released for free circulation before 20 November 2016." The only thing that needed to be removed from this paragraph was 'without prejudice to the relevant provisions', which refers to the marketing of the retail package in Section 36. If this were not included, this would also allow the sale of the product inside this package until then. But, Mr President, this is now in the hands of Parliament and, above all, I would appeal to you Members of the committee to correct this minor flaw so that this reasonable point of view has been taken into account. Mr President! Finally, I would also like to mention the ban on these flavours. As a national speciality, Finland would have liked to ban all other flavours other than those of tobacco. At first, it was intended to ban all flavourings, but the EU Commission pointed this out. However, it is quite impossible to ban substances that can season liquids. Modern flavours use the same ingredients as the food industry, for example, in baking. What results from this other than people starting to taste their own fluids? There is a clear risk that those who season the flavors at home will start selling liquids to others, creating a new illegal business in our country. Mr President! This is a serious challenge. These flavors will not leave this country in any way, since they will then be sold at home. Home-flavouring increases health risks and there would be no information about the contents of the steam to the lungs either by the steamers themselves or by the authorities. Mr President! Last but not least, I would like to raise the matter of distance selling that we are now doing this legislation, the proposal, so that Finnish online commerce will cease immediately when the law comes into force sometime around July, perhaps in August, but then these foreign-based stores will be allowed to sell to Finland until the end of the year. This is not against the directive, I checked this out. This would be contrary to the directive if Finnish online shops were allowed to sell but not other European online stores. However, it seems that legislation is being introduced in Finland in such a way that we do not respect our own businesses as much as other European companies. They can sell, but Finnish companies can't.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u88	Mr President! The reform of the Tobacco Act is a leap towards a smoke-free Finland. The Assembly's parliamentary group welcomes the progress made in the reform of the tobacco law, and I would also like to thank the entire committee for the unanimous outcome of this important legislative proposal — special thanks to the chairman of the committee. The goal of ending the use of tobacco and nicotine products by 2030 is again closer once this bill has been adopted. Finland has been a pioneer in tobacco policy for four decades. Smoking has declined even further. That is a good thing, but smoking is still a huge public health problem. Smoking is responsible for about one in six of the deaths of people aged between 35 and 64, not to mention the hundreds of thousands of sick days, which is a very serious public health problem. The new Tobacco Act aims at preventing the health damage caused by tobacco, and this also includes, in particular, measures to reduce passive smoking. The aim is to reduce the exposure to passive smoking by allowing for a ban on balcony smoking. This is a very long-awaited reform, that is to say, the aim is indeed to eradicate disturbing balcony smoking. It was really an important goal for the assembly to have tools for housing companies to tackle disturbing smoking, and we really want the right to smokelessness to include people who, for example, are in their own home or are staying on their own balcony. In other words, once this law has been adopted, the municipality may require a ban at the request of the housing company. What is important is that this point is followed up by law, and it is important to ensure that this is sufficiently clear and that the objective of eliminating balconies is actually achieved. I would also like to say that everyone in the housing community has the right to smoke in their own apartment, on their balcony and on the outside if this does not cause harm to other residents. The preventive effect is also that the use of electric tobacco is restricted in places other than those designated for smoking. What is excellent is that in Parliament a supplementary government bill added a ban on smoking in a car with children under 15 years of age. We believe that the right of a child to health is simply and self-evidently more valuable than the right of an adult to smoke anywhere and whenever, and I think it is really important for public health that this issue was added to this bill during this debate. The Coalition Party has been very proactive in this, and the three sides of the Assembly have also been active in giving us a ban on smoking in the car when children are actually present. And as a health professional, I would like to underline here that passive exposure to tobacco smoke is indeed harmful to children's health. There is clear research on this, i.e. exposure to smoke damages children’s arteries and increases the frequency of asthma, allergic rhinitis and bronchitis. This ban also has a strong symbolic effect on the fact that it is clearly shown that society does not accept the risk of endangering the health of children by exposing them to tobacco smoke. And it was also noteworthy that that previous position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs changed here and indeed the health of the children took precedence over adults being allowed to smoke anywhere. So this was a great thing. When the time goes by, I will also have to ask for another speech, Mr President, but I will indeed say that the tobacco law is strict and what is excellent here is that this reform of the tobacco law actually treats tobacco products equally, that is to say, in addition to traditional tobacco, the reform regulates tobacco products and tobacco substitutes more comprehensively. That regulation aims to manage health risks and to prevent an increase in the use of tobacco products, especially among young people. In other words, a clear blue thread in this legislation is indeed the protection and prevention of children's health, so that children and young people do not start smoking. Here again, nicotine products are highly addictive in all their forms, and although traditional tobacco is dangerous, other nicotine products also have disadvantages. They are highly addictive, and that is why legislation must live in time and recognise these latest products, and that is what this bill must do. Finally, tobacco legislation must continue to evolve in order to make a smoke-free Finland possible. This reform prohibits the possession of nicotine liquids by persons under 18 years of age, but there is no penalty for violating the ban. This is in line with the current ban on the possession of tobacco products, which will remain unchanged, but in the future it will also be appropriate to consider the need for regulation in connection with the seizure and perhaps in the future also those brand-free packages, this plain packaging line. In other words, there is still room for tightening up in this tobacco legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u89	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for the unanimous report and say that, on the one hand, I am somewhat dissatisfied with the report but, on the other hand, very satisfied. First, these bad news. I am unhappy with the report because, although the committee approved the government proposal, the committee and hence Parliament did not try to take any further steps than the government did. As we know, Finland has been a pioneer in limiting smoking since the 1970s, and now some countries have actually passed Finland. In relation to the government proposal, for example, the committee did not extend or even draw attention to the free areas of tobacco, let alone alter the articles on the fact that we would have these so-called brand-free packs of tobacco that do not have this label. As far as these new areas are concerned, I mentioned some examples in the referral debate, such as the ice cream bar terrace, where I think smoking could be banned. But such a step was not yet ready to take. I listened to the radio once when the reporter interviewed the chairman of the committee, Mr Hatais, and wondered if there was no longer any smoking in Finland. I'd invite this reporter to my place sometime this morning when I take the train to that train station. The first ones will smoke right there on the platform. Then I walk from the front of the Holiday Inn hotel, and fortunately there is a sign that no smoking is allowed in front of the hotel’s door, but smoking is done on both sides of the hotel’s door a few meters away. Then I pass the corner of the Sanomatalo, where there are people with cigarettes, and then they smoke in front of Kiasma. So when I walk from that station to the parliament, there is little more to do than dodge smokers. As far as these unbranded packs, cigarettes, some countries have indeed acted in such a way that tobacco is sold, as far as it is sold, without these brands. However, we know that these brands are often attractive and young people are addressed. An STM official said that this was not being prepared in Finland, and unfortunately the committee did not require this to be the next step. But I do want to send greetings to the STM from this Parliament's speakerhouse that, now that this reform has been carried out, and that is good, I think that the next step should be to prepare for the next step, which would include these unmarked packets of tobacco. Mr. Speaker! I am, of course, also pleased with the committee's report in many respects. Above all, I am pleased that this restriction on balcony smoking took place in practice in the form proposed by the government. The public debate is often thought of, and I think the previous speaker also uses the wording that "the municipality can impose" a smoking ban if the housing company so requests. This does not correspond to what Parliament is now regulating. Paragraph 79(2) of this Article, which is formulated by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, reads as follows: 'The municipality must order' — i.e. the municipality must order — 'a ban on smoking in the premises referred to in the application if, by reason of their structures or other circumstances, it is not exceptional' — except by way of exception, there is an addition made by the committee for which it is quite justified — 'to go to the other balcony, to the rest of the premises belonging to another apartment or to the interior of another apartment'. And in order to make this point perfectly clear to all municipal officials, administrative judges and judges of the Supreme Administrative Court who still have to deal with complaints or disputes in this regard, I will read what the Constitutional Committee has said in this regard. It thus stated: "In accordance with Article 79(2) of the proposed Tobacco Act, a prohibition on smoking must be imposed if tobacco smoke from the premises referred to in that provision is ‘can’ passed to another condition referred to in that provision." Then there is the other text and this goes on to say: "There is no qualification in the text for the movement of smoke, for example, in terms of its quantity or interference, harmfulness or materiality." The Committee on Constitutional Affairs then drew attention to this possibility of occasional travel, which was also corrected by the committee in this paragraph. In other words, this section says "other than exceptionally possible to travel". The Committee on Constitutional Affairs will then state quite unequivocally: 'The text states that a ban must be imposed if the conditions laid down are met, which makes the decision to impose a ban subject to so-called binding consideration. In practice, this means that if tobacco smoke can pass from one place to another, the municipality must impose a ban if it is applied for." In other words, all you municipal officials who have to deal with these matters, all the judges of the administrative court, all the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court: if the housing company decides to apply for this ban, that ban must be imposed if tobacco smoke can pass and so on. After all, everyone understands that tobacco smoke travels, except exceptionally, to a balcony next door, for example. And so the gatekeeper in this matter will be a housing company — and that is a good thing. Secondly, Mr President, I am of course pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also accepted the proposal in the supplementary government proposal that if there is a child in the car, then an adult should not smoke there. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs changed its position in 2010, and the old position was so absurd that there were all reasons to change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u92	Mr President! Indeed, that bill states that if the housing company is applying for a ban on smoking on the balcony, then that ban must be imposed. If my wording was unclear in that speech, it was very good that this was made clear. I would also like to point out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to this whole and stated in its text some softenings which we did not take into account. Indeed, we had a debate about the fact that the committee really has legislative powers, and that is where public health views won. Indeed, it is important that this section is as it is, and everyone in this Chamber proves that that ban must then be imposed. This is a very big leap in terms of public health that these instruments are available for balcony smoking. As I said in my speech, it is still a journey to get to smoke-free Finland. This is one step, and yes
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u93	Mr President! Just as Mr Zyskowicz has said here, there is still work to be done to ensure that the smoke-free Finland 2030 is true. Mr Zyskowicz raised the issue of children and young people. However, I think that this law is very good in this regard in the sense that this gate and the road to smoking is now going very well also through products such as electric tobacco and then electronic tobacco, i.e. nicotine-free electronic cigarettes, which are now, according to the studies, those who are interested in children and young people, and that it is learning the way to absorb cigarettes, which will then easily lead to a switch to smoking. In that sense, the changes introduced by this directive are important to limit them, and this concerns children and young people in particular. But quite rightly, this step to a non-smoking Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u94	Mr. Speaker! I will briefly comment on Mr Zyskowicz's excellent speech only in relation to the practice of this Committee on Constitutional Affairs when I was there to deal with it. Mr Zyskowicz, as I thought, commented on that point in section 74. - which then came after the government's new proposal that now, when a person under 15 years old is in a vehicle, no smoking is allowed. Of course, we can discuss whether it matters whether you smoke with a 10-year-old or a 17-year-old, whether a 17-year-old can resist smoking more than a 10-year-old. But I would also like to state in detail that, in this new proposal, compared to the 2010 proposal, there was a difference between not being able to carry out any checks on the car, as was the case with the previous one. This ban does not apply now to accommodations, which can be found in cars, even if they are in motorhomes, because they are protected from home privacy, which is probably already protected in Finland from the time of the Duke Juhana. To conclude, Mr Zyskowicz,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u95	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz put all the good and important things at the centre. However, this smoking in the car, when it is now being banned, could also have been done in such a way as to have had the possibility of sanctioning it, as is the case with balcony smoking, which makes it possible to increase the effectiveness of the measure by means of a penalty fine. But the next step, where we should be moving forward, which I would have liked to see taken place here, is that smoking in the apartments would also be prohibited if there were underage children present. We must go in that direction to protect them from tobacco smoke in all the places where children are present. Another good thing about this government proposal is that a smoking ban may also be imposed on the living room of a dwelling if the smoke passes or cannot be prevented. In that sense, the building company will also have this tool at its disposal. But in that sense it is very good that the tobacco law is constantly being reformed and that we are going step by step towards non-smoking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u96	I will give the floor to the representatives of Sarkomaa and Kurvinen — I see no need at all but these — and then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u97	Mr President! I would add that young people's smoking has indeed decreased dramatically, it is positive, but experts are very concerned about the increase in the popularity of electric cigarettes and snuff. The particular blue thread of this tobacco law, as the President has said here, is that we want to protect children and young people from starting using any tobacco product. When it comes to communication about the dangers of tobacco, it is important that, in addition to tobacco, cigarettes, health problems, the potential harm of other nicotine products should also be discussed. It can indeed be said that if we are talking about 9th grade young people, half of the boys and a third of the girls have tried electric tobacco. And when these new nicotine - containing products are placed on the market, it may mean an increase in nicotine addiction. Just because we have products that are less dangerous than traditional tobacco does not mean that they are healthy, for whatever
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u98	Mr Kurvinen, the reply, and then Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u99	Mr President! I would like to comment on Mr Niiko's statement that there would be a penalty payment for smoking in the car. It is part of the penalty payment that it is monitored whether this bad behaviour continues and then the fine is imposed. It would be interesting to see who would start watching whether this smoking continues in the car. This reflects a certain problem of this legislation, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to. We should not create symbolic legislation and the kind of bicycle helmet legislation that little has been created. It undermines people's morals and respect for the law. Similarly, we talked a lot about that drinking. If an adult is drunk in front of a child, it is a truly frightening experience for a child. We should also compare this tobacco regulation with this regulation, which we target with alcohol, ethanol, as a heavy poison. I'm sure we should stop smoking in our apartments during children's time and get to smoke-free Finland, but in all drugs, increasing education and education is the only way to get ahead once and for all. A police state like that will never be born.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u100	Mr President! I say to Mrs Kurviselle that if the penalty payment cannot be applied to smoking in the car, then a fine could have been applied. We would have had those means if we had wanted to. Congressman Sarkomaa was very busy painting devils on the walls about this danger of e-cigarette. Of course, even the electric cigarette is not desirable, I am not defending it in that sense, but I know that when I was a child I was living at home when five packs of red Nort were burned in the same condition as I was living in, I would have liked parents to have smoked an electric cigarette that is no harm to children. In that sense, we must do everything in our power to support those adult people to move away from the more harmful product, that is, from smoking tobacco to a less harmful product, such as e-cigarettes. In that sense, legislation must not be too judgmental and strict to make an electronic cigarette into a poison that it may not be. If we want a nicotine-free Finland, then we should also start thinking about what we need nicotine gum for. If one product is obtained through the pharmaceutical law
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u101	And now, at the very last, the response to Mr Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u102	Mr President! A health-oriented tobacco policy has become more widespread in many countries, and it is particularly good that tobacco legislation is tightened up and regulated widely, and it is good that Finns are pioneers in this. In particular, I welcome the fact that this proposal makes it possible to intervene more effectively in balcony smoking, because so far the ban on smoking on the balcony has been difficult, practically impossible, because it has called for proof of the health damage caused by smoke. Now the law is talking about a smoke shark, which is easier to prove. Mr Kurvinen spoke of the lack of clarity of the legislation, and I would like to know whether there is any change to the Health Protection Act that supports this same smoke pollution record. It is very important that this is also a matter of complete progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u103	And we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u104	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is an important and good goal to reduce smoking in Finland, and here are some very good suggestions to get fewer young people to start smoking and more and more parents to get rid of smoking. I will comment on a few points. This issue of electric smoking is something that gives me some thought. However, it has been the way for many to get rid of tobacco, traditional tobacco, and in electric tobacco there is much less of these harmful ingredients. Of course, the way is better to get out of smoking gradually, and to that end nicotine chewing gums have, of course, come into use. That's why I find this electric smoking a little bit too big. The ban on smoking in residential communities is a major part of this performance, and this is particularly true for balcony smoking. In my opinion, this has been made very complicated here, as this debate has shown since the committee's reading, that is to say, very complicated... As Mr Zyskowicz said, 'the municipality must prescribe' is this formulation of what is here. Why do we need a municipality to make that decision? However, we have long spoken in this Chamber that the municipalities have a huge number of tasks, and we have tried to reduce them, and now we are creating a rather large and difficult task, which is likely to include a review, then a request for correction, then a second review, then different levels of government will deal with them and so on. Will this process then take two or three years, its time will show. I find it difficult to understand that, when this model is still made, it is said that the decision-making power to apply for a ban on smoking falls to the general meeting of shareholders — that is, the application cannot be made by the board of directors of the housing company, which is often a small operator, but belongs to the general meeting, where a clear majority must be in favour of this application, and when it is to be applied for, the majority of the housing company has already stated that this will cause this disadvantage, why is it wanted to be applied for — so why a municipality is still needed for this decision-maker. It would be interesting to hear answers to this. Company meetings and even the boards of housing companies make many other decisions that limit, for example, housing and their own customs, and they have to be content with them without always going around the board of the relevant sector, for example, in the municipality. Then, second, this is smoking in the vehicle. I'm surprised there's no police in this business at all. I find it quite extraordinary that the authority most often involved with motorists is not an actor here, but a municipal authority. And then the text states, for example, teachers — i.e. teachers are now made up of such tobacco cops: they watch in the morning when children are brought to school, if there is smoke in the car, and then they go and rebuke, when there is no other way than to go there. I do not really understand this type of legislation at all, although I personally am in favour of banning car smoking. Is this just a section of disapproval, i.e. disapproving that it and its car were being smoked again, but there is no other way? I personally would not like to see teachers, as this proposal is being pushed forward, put in place such a task any more. Teachers are going to have to deal with quite a few other things that are not really part of the teaching assignment, and I would like to ask whether it is the teacher’s job to raise parents, in this case to tell them not to smoke in the car. It is up to the teacher to raise children and perhaps in a large picture to support the family in the educational work, but if the teacher's job is to raise the father and mother where he is allowed to smoke and not allowed to do so, it is by no means the role of the teacher, ladies and gentlemen. I myself am a master of education, a teacher of class — I have not been trained to have, for example, a brash job, a mother to go to the school when she brought her children to Nissan when there was tobacco smoke in the car, and I would not even want to do such a job for myself. I'm sure this is going to be the case when some passionate anti-smoker tells on that teacher when the teacher hasn't gone to reprimand it. Nissan has brought a child to school, and this is going to be an extraordinary situation. After all, this task should definitely be for the police, and even if it is not defined as punishment, as has been the case here, you could write a note or say that now that you have a child under the age of 15 in a car, it is legally forbidden to smoke. This is what the police are doing at the moment with cyclists who drive without a bicycle helmet. There is no fine for that either, but their job is to reprove and tell them that you are violating the law, even though there is no punishment for this. Unfortunately, it seems that in many respects this proposal is becoming a rather dead letter and even a teacher or some other member of the community whose task is far from being a tobacco police officer, a nuisance and a difficulty. Mr President! Personally, I am in favour of not smoking in cars, and I am surprised that in this case, for the 16 and 17-year-olds, who are still being ordered by their mother and father on a car and on a summer holiday and who are still part of the grandmother's and the cottage, they do not have this legal right to a smoke-free car to intervene. I believe that this too should be corrected. Here are some comments on the draft law, which in itself takes us in a good direction in many respects to reduce tobacco smoke and the effect of tobacco smoke on each of us, above all those who do not smoke tobacco.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u105	Mr President! Congressman Heinonen raised some good points. I myself pointed out in the referral debate that, in the sense of abolishing standards, this ban on balcony smoking was not necessary for a municipality, but that the decision of the housing company would have been quite sufficient. I hope that in the next stage such a step will be taken, but I imagine that the background is probably the very legalist tradition of Finland, i.e. that perhaps it is considered that this kind of individual decision must be made by the authority. I don't think it's a very big and difficult task, as I told you before. It must be imposed if the housing company is seeking it, but it is true that it will then be complained of and a couple of years will be able to cause the smoker to delay the entry into force of this matter. As far as smoking in this car is concerned, I think that, just as the police monitor the use of safety belts, it could have monitored this issue during the raid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u106	Mr President! I think that the two of us in the field of education have a slightly different idea of what the possibility or obligation of a teacher to intervene in such cases is. In other words, duty requires that if the health and safety of the child is endangered and, in particular, the guardian poses a danger to the health of the child, then it is an obligation to intervene. The Child Welfare Act is the one that will then be used to intervene, and now there is still such a possibility of resolving the need for protection. In other words, if the guardian presents such a thing, then the guardian has already been so rebuked that it certainly wonders whether it is appropriate to smoke then while traveling with the child. So it would have been done with the Child Welfare Act, as it has been so far. I've got into a situation like this, and the guardian didn't hold a grudge against me about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u107	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u108	Mr President! Measures to reduce smoking are to be welcomed in terms of health policy and economy. The goal must be a non-smoking Finland. This bill is a step in the right direction. I am particularly pleased that this bill also allows a smoke-free environment for those living in an apartment building. Last season I made a bill that if balcony smoking is proven to be harmful to others living in an apartment building, smoking can be banned on the balcony. At that time, the majority of those who took part in the debate on the referral to the bill considered the initiative to be an acquittal and to restrict the personal rights of the smoker. Now I am pleased that there has been such a positive change of attitude in this area. Everyone must have the right to no smoking, and if balcony smoking harms others, then the rights of the smoker must be secondary. Often these matters can be dealt with in a debate, but this is not always the case, and this law provides clear guidelines and guidelines for such situations. Although this could have been made easier, I agree. Mr President! Of course, the most important thing is that we act in such a way that young people do not start smoking at all. In this work, it is essential that non-smoking become a fashion phenomenon in a certain way. The behaviour of idiots, but also of all close adults, is an important role model in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u109	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Tobacco legislation in Finland has been tightening for many years, and I myself remember very vividly when a big change occurred in the Tobacco Act and restaurant smoking was banned. I remember that when I first went to a restaurant where there had been smoke before and then there was no smoke, it did seem like a positive revolution for an asthmatic who has always had a huge cough when he was in a state with a lot of tobacco smoke. The bill now sets a clear objective of trying to stop tobacco consumption in Finland, aiming for so-called non-smoking Finland, and this is a really good and great goal. Hopefully this will be achieved, and it will certainly increase people’s health, well-being and happiness. Mr President! The big change that is now taking place is that housing companies and other so-called housing companies will have the opportunity to ban, or technically and formally apply to the municipality for a ban on the use of balconies. After all, this is a long-term turn of events, and each of us has certainly received a lot of feedback, as well as a ban on the fact that they have then been invoked for the rights of residents, tenants and shareholders. I hope that it will go the way Mr Zyskowicz said earlier that this decision by the municipality is in practice a formality, so that in practice the housing company will make its decision, but there is little concern about whether this will create unnecessary bureaucracy and, in particular, whether the larger municipalities, the larger cities, will be employed, when these prohibitions and decisions are not allowed to be enforced, will then start to snap. It would seem a little corny when we have a need for people in the public sector on the security side, on the social and health side and in many other places, if we start looking for additional resources to deal with these and then have to hire people in the municipalities to deal with these applications for bans. However, I think it is very important that these decisions can be taken and that the communities living there can point out that smoking is not allowed, because this obviously has an impact on health, but it also has a clear effect on people's property and on the protection of property, when we all know about the general experience of living, what tobacco smoke does to the dwelling and what it feels like in a building and apartment where tobacco is crammed properly. And it feels the same way, even if it was a few meters up or down or next to it in the community. Mr President! There has already been a debate here on this position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There may have been a small amendment in attitude, but it must be borne in mind that the previous attempt to ban smoking in the car during the child was stricter: it had these inspection rights for all under 18-year-olds. I think it is quite justified that the 16 to 17-year-olds are already able to express themselves more clearly. He's less vulnerable than he was when he was seven or ten. However, in my opinion, when we dealt with this draft law in the Constitutional Committee, we had a very interesting policy debate on substance abuse policy. As the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states, this draft law now contains certain features of over-regulation and symbolic legislation. It is just that we cannot prevent all forms of behaviour that are dangerous to health and dangerous to children by providing in law that this cannot be done. Especially here is the attitude towards alcohol, which is at least as big a problem in Finland as tobacco smoking. Personally, I do not smoke, but I drink alcohol, and I dare admit that if you see your parents in the same condition when they are drunk, it is an apartment or a car and it is not specifically prohibited by law. I would therefore like to say that, despite the fact that the tobacco law is being tightened – which is a good thing, it is easy for me to support as a long-term anti-smoking opponent, from a very teenage age onwards – we would remember in this policy of substance abuse and in trying to bring about healthier lifestyles, that, however, education and education are the only lasting, final means by which we can get a poison called nicotine and a poison called ethanol after the wrong and bad use of alcohol and we can get better and healthier and happier Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u110	Mr President! I would also like to say that this new tobacco law places a great deal of emphasis on the right of the child to health and on many solutions that have weighed the right of the adult to do things and the health of the child, and that is what I think we should do in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Throughout this bill there is equal treatment for tobacco products, i.e. tobacco, whether it is an electric cigarette or a traditional cigarette, and many solutions are justified by the desire to protect children because nicotine is life-threatening to a child. In fact, we want to ban attractive smells and flavours in electric cigarettes as well as in traditional cigarettes, but let me say that when the law treats electric tobacco as ordinary tobacco in the future, that does not mean that electric tobacco is banned — that is to say, when there was a great deal of concern here about the treatment of this electric cigarette. In other words, equal treatment for tobacco products and protection of the health of children — I warmly support the adoption of this bill. And finally, Mr President, the Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party is prepared to continue the reform of the Tobacco Act in such a way that we remain on board where Europe and the world are going. In this case, these plain packets of tobacco, which do not contain these brands, these types of bill, are welcome. But in this legislative process we were able to do this, and thank the committee very much for accepting this ban on smoking in the car when there are children under 15 years of age. This wasn't an easy decision, but the public health perspective won.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u111	Mr President! Of course, the teacher should address the shortcomings he has observed, such as abuse and this type of abuse, if you notice them, or the various problems that may arise in the family, but of course in this legislation that is now being proposed, there is a difference that the teacher is already directly responsible for its punishment. In other words, there would not be any measure to be taken by this person, but he would only be the one who disapproves of it, as is stated here, and it would not be the case that, for example, the teacher would make it a measure forward, as he does when he discovers that a child has been abused, or that he suspects sexual abuse or this type of abuse that I myself have had to settle during my teaching career. They're bad and serious things. Mr Zyskowicz raised the issue of athletes, and I very much welcome the fact that we find such examples of anti-smoking or non-smoking Finland among sportsmen, but with some concern I have also followed the fact that snuff — certainly not, hopefully, these athletes to whom Mr Zyskowicz referred — have become quite common among sportsmen now, and it is extremely serious and dangerous. Personally, I would like us to find examples of sportsmen who could come and say that snorting does not need to be a good athlete, but can also be done without it, such as Pepsi or juice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u112	Mr President! Reducing smoking is a very good objective for both individuals and public health, although it is by no means easy to implement. In this bill to amend the Tobacco Act, there are many good ways to reduce smoking, and the interests of children have also been taken into account. Mr President! However, it is still necessary to take a brief position on the issue of electric smoking and the difficulty in its draft law. Indeed, many persistent smokers have been able to switch from ordinary smoking to electric smoking, and at least my own view is that electric smoking is less bad from these two options. I must admit that I do not consider this bill to be very successful in this respect. On the other hand, as a better means of reducing smoking, I have considered, among other things, the increases in the tobacco tax already imposed by Parliament, which will come into force at the beginning of July, and more increases in the tobacco tax will continue to take place in line with the government programme, and I think that the increases in the tobacco tax will be very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u113	Mr President! I have now listened carefully to these speeches about this new tobacco law, and it was my idea to say nothing about this in the first place. I can tell you that every time Parliament has been blackmailing the Tobacco Act over the years, even before I was a Member of Parliament myself, I have always considered these blackmails to be really bad things and to restrict individual freedom, and so it is now. I simply do not understand, for example, these restrictions on electronic tobacco, which has in fact helped many to get rid of tobacco. However, every time the time has passed, I have always realised that the decision made by the Parliament that I criticised earlier has been a good thing. The clearest example of this was the ban on smoking in bars, which Mr Kurvinen mentioned there. At that time we had just set up a bar of this kind ourselves, and we considered it a very bad thing for us to sell that smoking inside is prohibited. We did not have the opportunity to have these smoking booths that were made at that time. Later I found that this was a very good thing, that there was virtually no effect on sales, and people who smoked went out for cigarettes and there was nothing to blame. That is why — although at the moment I really feel that these restrictions are totally unreasonable to this electric tobacco, or whether in a car of this kind smoking or balcony smoking bans are somehow very strange to my taste — how I feel about myself, I am quite convinced that when time goes on, I will get used to these changes and I will later keep these very
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u114	Mr President! It was a real pleasure to hear Mr Eerola's constructive and somewhat exceptional speech, and it is easy to agree with that. I think that when smoking was banned at the workplace, it was horrified and then, over time, many people noticed how wonderful it is when you don’t have to smell cigarettes at the workplace all the time. When smoking was banned in bars and restaurants, it was feared that it would even bankrupt these places. In practice this did not happen, and even smokers are obviously satisfied that there is no smoking in bars and restaurants. And so on. Parliament is now taking a step forward towards a non-smoking and non-smoking Finland, but at the end of this debate I would like to set targets for the next reform. I believe that this reform work must continue and, as I said, I believe that it would be very important for young people to start smoking if the next step were actually to take place in these unbranded tobacco packages. It might no longer be so cool to be a smoker when you could not praise those signs and make them more attractive between them. Another point that has come to the fore in this debate: I do not quite understand why, after the decision by the housing company not to smoke on the balcony in the housing company, it must then apply for a decision by the municipality, which, as has been observed, is bound up with considerations as to why you should then bother the municipal officials in this matter. I think that the decision of the housing company is enough, and if we have an ultra-Legalist tradition here, then I think it is time that the housing company could decide, because, as Mr Heinonen said, the housing company takes many other decisions concerning individual rights in that company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u115	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 7/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u116	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the foreign law and some other related laws. According to the Committee's report, the main objective of the government's proposal is, in various ways, to improve the handling of matters relating to international protection and to curb the lengthening of processing times. In order to achieve this objective, it is proposed, among other things, to reduce the time limits for appeals, to provide for urgent appeals, to increase the flexibility of the rules governing the composition of courts and to speed up the transmission of documents. The government's proposal is based on a very significant increase in international protection issues. The number of applicants for international protection is also estimated to be high in 2016. In addition, several persons who have received international protection from Finland are expected to apply for a residence permit on the basis of family ties. The government proposal estimates that this is not just a temporary change from the past. Due to the significant increase in the number of cases, the employment situation at the Helsinki Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court on complaints concerning the granting of international protection is exceptional. The resources of these courts, as well as of public legal assistance, have been significantly increased and working methods have been developed and improved. In addition, however, it is necessary to make legislative changes in order to ensure that matters are dealt with in a timely manner. In the light of the reasons for the Government's proposal and in the light of the report it has received, the Legal Committee considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of the bill's proposals, with the following observations and amendments: Firstly, there is the question of shortening the time for appeals. The decision of the Finnish Immigration Service on international protection can be appealed to the Helsinki Administrative Court. In turn, an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court may be brought against a decision of the Administrative Court on the matter if the Supreme Administrative Court authorises an appeal. It is now proposed that the time for appeal to the administrative court should be 21 days for international protection matters to be settled in the asylum procedure and 14 days for the Supreme Administrative Court to be informed of the decision. It is also proposed that such complaints should be dealt with as a matter of urgency. The Committee on Legal Affairs notes that the handling of matters relating to international protection consists of different stages and the time for appeal is one part of this whole. It takes approximately 9 months for the Finnish Immigration Service to process and decide an asylum application. In actual cases of complaints concerning international protection, the average processing time in the Helsinki Administrative Court is 5 months now. At the Supreme Administrative Court, the processing time is now also around 5 months. In view of the fact that both courts have an additional period of 30 days, the court may therefore take a total of more than one year. The Legal Affairs Committee believes that this is a very long time. In view of the significant increase in asylum matters, there is a risk that, without further measures, court proceedings will be extended. This would be problematic for the legal protection of applicants. The Legal Affairs Committee has asked the Ministry of Justice for information on the impact of the proposals contained in the proposal on the effectiveness of the judicial procedure and the whole process. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is not possible to make a precise assessment of efficiency, but it is estimated that the various proposals, together with practical arrangements, will increase productivity by around 20%. It is also estimated that the time taken to appeal before the Helsinki Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court with the proposals will be reduced from a good year to 10 months. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the large-scale immigration that is behind the proposal and the exceptional employment situation it causes in the authorities require legislative changes in order to deal with matters of international protection in a timely and smooth manner. It is one of the guarantees of legal certainty that the case should be dealt with in a timely manner. On the basis of the above and on the basis of the report it has received, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is in favour of reducing the time limits for appeals as set out. The handling of complaints concerning international protection is currently centralised in the Helsinki Administrative Court. In its recent report, a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice proposes that, in addition to the Helsinki Administrative Law, the handling of these matters should be decentralised to two or three other administrative courts. In the view of the committee, the decentralisation of proceedings may facilitate the current exceptional situation in the Helsinki Administrative Court, which is why the committee is pressing for further preparation of this matter. Then there is the question of limiting legal aid for applicants for international protection. It is proposed to amend Article 9(2) of the Aliens Act so that legal aid includes the presence of a lawyer in an asylum interview only if it is necessary for reasons of particular importance. At the same time, a special provision is deleted under which, when dealing with an administrative matter, a lawyer-trained person other than a public assistant may also act as an assistant to a foreigner. The clarification of the eligibility criteria for assistants and the limitation of the assistant's presence in the asylum interview only to genuinely necessary situations are primarily aimed at the clarity and smoothness of the whole process, rather than cost savings. According to the study, there are also operators in the sector who are not subject to supervision and who do not comply with common principles of legal ethics or good practice. The proposed amendment addresses, inter alia, the resulting mild phenomena. For example, even today, lawyers who follow good practice go into the interview mainly only when there are serious reasons for the applicant’s situation. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers the proposed amendments to be justified in principle. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also draws attention to the fact that the legislative reform of legal aid and lobbying circles already adopted in the past widens the scope for legal assistance in purchasing services. In particular, the reform has aimed at providing adequate and appropriate legal assistance services to applicants for international protection. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has assessed the proposed provision of Article 9(2) of the Aliens Act and the limitation of legal aid in the asylum interview only for particularly serious reasons. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers, among other things, that the legal aid of an unaccompanied minor asylum seeker in Finland must also be fully available in an asylum interview. That is why the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes a change to that paragraph. Like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights stresses that the age of asylum seekers must be properly defined in the administrative procedure. Then, briefly, the matter of detention will be re-examined at the District Court. According to Article 121 of the Aliens Act, a foreigner may under certain conditions be detained as a protective measure. These include identification, removal of a professional criminal or removal of a negative asylum decision or other negative residence permit decision. The decision will be taken by an official entitled to arrest in the police, and the matter will be referred to the district court. The case shall be re-examined no later than two weeks after the decision ordering the detention of the person in custody at the place in question. Now, in the government proposal, it is proposed that detention be re-examined at the request of the person detained in the future. The case shall be dealt with no later than four days after the request has been made. The Legal Affairs Committee considers it appropriate and justified that the same procedure should be followed for the review of both the detention case and the detention case. The committee also believes that this proposal is necessary because the retrials of detention give rise to a great deal of work for district courts. The change will therefore allow for a more appropriate allocation of the resources of district courts. It can also be estimated that the change will also have a positive impact on foreign detainees, as the mandatory two-weekly hearings have also led to frustration among them, according to the report. Mr President! These are the main points of this comprehensive report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. This report was not unanimous and we will probably hear more about it soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u117	Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, went through this quite extensively, and there has now been an extraordinary amount of discussion in Parliament and, of course, the situation is exceptional. The number of asylum seekers is high, and this proposal quite rightly now introduces measures to speed up the process. It is certainly humane for these applicants, too, that the times are not as long as they have been so far. So first there is the processing of that permit, and then the uncertainty will continue for a very long time to come during the handling of these complaints. It is justifiable that solutions can be found more quickly and that people can thus move forward in life. In other words, it is a question of time-limits for appeals, of the question of authorisation, and it is also a question of this proposal, where changes are still being made to this composition, in which two Members could deal with these issues more. The proposal also proposes to revise the regulation of the composition of the Supreme Administrative Court, which is quite justified in such an exceptional situation. I think it is human that these solutions should be made more quickly from the point of view of the applicants themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u118	Mr President! We are now debating a proposal which is part of a policy that undermines the fundamental human rights of vulnerable people. The right of asylum seekers to legal aid will be restricted without any real explanation of the human rights implications of this issue being made. We haven't been able to figure this out because they don't want to find out. Mr President! The Government claims that the aim of this proposal is to speed up the handling of complaints. This is a good goal, and that is what we all share. However, in expert consultations it became very clear to us that this will not happen. The Helsinki Administrative Court, which is certainly the best expert on this issue, stated that, on the contrary, this proposal will probably prolong these processes. When the asylum seeker does not have the right to legal aid at a crucial stage, the administrative court is increasingly forced to annul and re-examine decisions taken in the past. And the fact that the time for appeal is shortened at this point also led, according to the Helsinki Administrative Court, to hastily prepared complaints, which does not speed up the proceedings, but slows them down. In other words, all of these criteria that are given to it did, in consultation with experts, lay the groundwork. Mr President! People seeking international protection are particularly in need of legal protection. Many of these people flee persecution, violence, torture, or even certain death. These people have escaped something that we can never understand here. And yet, following the adoption of this government proposal, legal aid would continue to be available to the asylum interview only for a particularly serious reason. However, at no time in this proposal will the government tell us how or at what point this reason will be explained, because in reality it is often not resolved. Mr President! This proposal has been criticised by the Supreme Administrative Court, criticised by the Chancellor of Justice, criticised by the Bar Association, the Helsinki Administrative Court, the UN Refugee Agency, criticised by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, criticised by Amnesty, the Refugee Advice Centre and so on and so on and so on. The expert hearings were quite freezing to hear. But none of these people want to be heard. We have a poorly prepared proposal at this reading, the basis for which does not stand up to much scrutiny. This presentation does not speed up the proceedings, this slows them down. This proposal undermines the legal protection of the most vulnerable people and jeopardises justice. In the midst of an historic humanitarian crisis in which more and more people are at risk, legal protection for people fleeing will be undermined. And when this proposal is combined with the withdrawal by the government of the right to the family and the abolition of humanitarian protection from those fleeing war and persecution, we have a rather shameful package of beating down those who are the weakest. If you believe in the rule of law and that people are genuinely equal, you cannot support this proposal. That is why I have proposed to reject these proposals in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I will do so also in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u119	Mr President! In the refugee crisis that we are experiencing at the moment in the world, the sufferers are those who are facing war and persecution in their own countries. The refugee crisis also measures how a civilised state and the rule of law help the people who seek refuge here. From that point of view, the reaction that the government has decided to take action in this context is certainly not a credit to Finland or to our traditions of civilisation and the rule of law. This bill is part of a package in which the government is quite unilaterally tightening up the rights of asylum seekers, without even assessing whether these are effective for the rule of law, or whether they are, rather, slow down the process from the point of view of the rule of law. It seems that the underlying thinking is simply to harass the position of the people in the process, giving the impression to some groups of voters that something has been done. It is no credit to the rule of law, and I hope that the government parties will stare at themselves in the mirror carefully, that why have they decided to go along with this? In this respect, the responsibility rests with all three government parties, and also with the ministers who present issues in particular, with Minister Lindström's and Minister Orpo's plots, which are essentially the proposals that have been made. This proposal was also before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which the experts that we, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have heard very unanimously also pointed out the problems of the motion. The courts feel that this can in fact only increase the number of complaints and also reduce the level of complaints when the duration of the appeal period is reduced and lead to a deterioration in the quality of the process and an increase in processing times. Then there is the question of restricting legal aid in the asylum interview — there is no justification for such a change from the point of view of legal security, nor does it provide savings for the process. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was that it undermines legal certainty and that we undermine the legal protection of the most vulnerable people in this situation is very, very questionable. In addition, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that it is absolutely unconstitutional for children who are most in need and who are unable and able to defend themselves in this procedure to leave this legal aid in the interview procedure. In this respect, the committee has, of course, made the changes required by the Constitutional Committee, but no other very serious comments made by the Constitutional Committee have been taken into account in the formulation of the decision. Here again, I hope that the responsible committee and the government parties concerned will consider whether it makes sense to go through a bill that does not even achieve the objective it says it is pursuing. The actual stated aim of the draft law is therefore to speed up the process without jeopardising legal certainty, and experts believe that the process of justice cannot be accelerated but can rather slow down and legal protection is compromised. If this is a very unanimous view of experts, almost all experts feel this way, why stick to this presentation? Well, I'm sure the government parties have been under political pressure to show that we're being tough. But again, why are we being tough when this country should defend the rule of law? Is it not in difficult times that we consider how we stand up for the values that are most important to us? If defending those values is also the right choice from the point of view of the effectiveness and economic efficiency of the rule of law, then why only because of collecting political points and creating a show that undermines people’s legal security? I think it is very, very serious that this bill goes through, and I appeal to the representatives of the government parties to weigh this very carefully in their hearts. In addition to that, there is of course a second bill in Parliament, and it limits the right to family reunification, and the big change is that the families that were established before coming to Finland would also become subject to income limits, and therefore, in practice, it would also make family reunification impossible for refugees. And it is also a question that combined these legislative proposals represent a very anti-refugee climate. I hope that the government parties will reflect on this whole: is this Finland on which you stand and why are you undermining the very fundamental principles of our rule of law, that of ensuring that everyone is treated with dignity and that justice is as good as possible in judicial processes? And our international obligations and international agreements should also be taken into account when talking about refugees' rights and children's rights, about the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child — a fundamental right in a positive way rather than in a minimal way in terms of fundamental rights. This is something that I would also like to raise as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: unfortunately, with the government's proposals, Finland is under great pressure in the direction that, since the beginning of the 21st century, after the constitutional reform, we have interpreted our constitution in a pro-right manner, so now the government is repeatedly trying to go beyond where the bar is lowest. The quality of the proposals is often mediocre, and then let us try out the limits on the extent to which people's rights within the limits of the Constitution can be restricted. Sometimes these changes will also have to be made in Parliament as a result. The Constitution is not intended to be some sort of minimal border that guarantees rights, and then all other rights that go on it will then be taken away from people, but should also be taken into account in political responsibility for what is decent treatment, how the rule of law works in the best possible way and what is a good country. In other words, I would like to ask the government parties for further self-examination of this matter in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u120	Mr President! In my opinion, this government proposal is a good example of an image policy that is based on an argument or perhaps an argument, and then, in fact, the content is something quite different. The arguments relating to the swifter handling of asylum seekers' processes are certainly welcome for everyone, but as is the case with Mrs Karin and the representative. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I can say that none of the experts could say that this period of time will be reduced. It is interesting that we want to deal specifically with court handling times and times of appeal, rather than perhaps considering the administration's handling times, which make up most of the time. It is already possible — and there are many examples of that — to deal more quickly, including in the current legislation, on these issues. As the chairman of the committee said here, even the Ministry of Justice could not show how this would bring speed to these deadlines, they simply assessed it in this way. Another important argument was that there are so many lawyers who exploit people so harshly that they need to change the law. In my opinion, it was quite an interesting argument, although perhaps not so clearly from these papers. But it seems that this is going well in the back to fix things. As has been said, there is a question of safeguarding fundamental fundamental and human rights in the matter of seeking national protection, and a wrong solution can have very far-reaching consequences for applicants. Of course, this legislation on national protection is always complicated and one can only imagine what it feels like for an applicant who does not know our legal system, let alone the case law. There may also be a rare number of applicants who are particularly vulnerable for various reasons and it is not possible to identify the vulnerability of all at that stage. So that means that these applicants have clearly emphasised the need for legal protection. In that sense too, I believe that the government's proposal is, in some way, historic in its disillusionment. After all, it is not a question of securing a immigration-critical policy, as someone may think, but of dismantling our rule of law. In no country in the world where the rule of law has somehow failed, one decision has been taken to dismantle it, but it is done bit by bit, one small piece at a time, and I think this is clearly a question of not respecting the fundamentals of our rule of law. Moreover, the provision of legal aid to public legal aid is not consistent with the objectives of the proposal, since so far legal aid has also been provided by private assistants, particularly those specialised in these matters. The imposition of fixed fees also reduces the possibilities for private assistants to assist in asylum matters and also in other court stages, as they are defined as excessively small in terms of the amount of work required by good practice. Those who are actually in the greatest need need need more help, and in this way legal aid may be directed at those who need less help. The proposal states that the clarification of the circumstances and facts will mainly take place in an asylum interview with the administrative authorities, but the need for legal protection will perhaps be greatest at that time. In relation to this, the exclusion of a legal aid lawyer from the asylum interview is, in my view, a significant risk of legal protection. If the right of these asylum seekers to legal aid is tightened, it is very likely that the identification of victims of human trafficking will be further undermined. In addition to the staff of the reception centres, expert and experienced legal advisers have played a very important role in identifying indicators referring to trafficking in human beings and have presented and directing victims to the assistance system. In this respect, attention has been drawn to the reduction of deadlines on several occasions, and the expert hearings have not confirmed the view that the proposal shortens the times, on the contrary, and the courts have been very concerned about this issue. The status of children is still a matter which has certainly not been raised at all in the government proposal, and this also shows that there has been insufficient effort to take due account of the legal protection of people. I will therefore support the motion for rejection which Mr Kari will make later at this reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u121	Madam President! When the asylum system was created, the current migration crisis was not anticipated. It was not anticipated that asylum seekers congested the administrative justice system and cost taxpayers mammothly, including from state funds, at the cost of legal aid to asylum seekers. It was not anticipated that asylum decisions would go so slowly that illegal immigrants would be able to live on social aid for years before a negative decision was reached. So our national systems must be changed. The Finns have taken action. This proposal considerably reduces the right of asylum seekers to free legal aid, i.e. to vehicle and assistance from state funds. Free legal aid is provided by legal aid offices and private lawyers and legal firms. The appearance of asylum seekers has been a real jackpot for many legal practitioners. The state pays lawyers who assist asylum seekers more than EUR 60 million a year — think over EUR 60 million. Only a few foreign law firms that assist asylum seekers have made millions of dollars from the treasury alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u124	Mr President! I must say that the previous speaker had a rather cold attitude toward people. Somehow I understand that even in the government parties these difficult things must be handled, but the impression was that it was as if this were a good thing for the Finns of Finland when people's lives were made difficult. This is something I do not quite understand, and I hope that this kind of language does not really exist here. But then to this government proposal itself. Surely everyone in this House believes that the objective itself must be supported that we, at the various stages of the process, are able to speed up and thus be able to take decisions more quickly, and that this would be in the interests of society as a whole and, in particular, of those seeking security, so that their affairs can be dealt with as quickly as possible. But when we start to look at whether this shortens the processing time, however, when we remember this asylum process, our processing times are made up of the fact that, on average, the asylum investigation and the decision-making process of the Finnish Immigration Service take 9 months and after that, if a person complains about it, we go first to the lower court for maybe 5 months and then to the highest level for some more of it, and this becomes, in a way, the whole. And now that this process should be shortened, then it should be considered whether, for example, this nine months, which is the longest time, will be reduced by our limiting the time for complaints,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u129	Madam President! Finland is internationally known as a promoter of human rights and a country of advanced legal protection. Human rights-based approach is one of the key principles of our legislation. These principles and starting points must be maintained. It must be ensured that, in these changing circumstances, the legal protection of any asylum seeker is not violated or undermined. In dealing with this government proposal, the Social Democrats and the Christian people tabled their own amendments in that committee. It is crystallistic: we cannot accept the form of a government proposal as it stands and we see problems in reducing the time for appeals, limiting legal aid at the interview stage, tightening the eligibility criteria for assistants and detention. Mr President! Accelerating the administrative process in matters of international protection is a worthy objective. However, shortening the time limit for appeals to administrative rights is not a valid means of doing so as a whole. In matters of international protection, complaints cannot be regarded as simple in principle, but are often very difficult and complex. In particular, if the applicant has not had an assistant in the previous stages of the process, the time left for the applicant to find a qualified assistant and for the person to be assisted to prepare a complaint must be sufficient. In view of, among other things, language problems and the large number of expert assistants in the current refugee situation, the current 30-day appeal period must also be kept very tight. In particular, the most vulnerable, such as minors, could suffer as a result of the reduction in the period of appeal. Shortening the appeal period could also lead to an increase in the number of cases of hasty and incomplete complaints, thereby increasing delays in the later stages of the process. President! Limiting legal aid at the interview stage: Applicants for international protection generally do not know the Finnish authorities' procedure and do not know their rights in the process. Some applicants are not able to read or write. Problems arising from the absence of a common language and cultural differences clearly create opportunities for misunderstanding. In their own country, the victim of persecution by the authorities and, for example, the victim of torture may have difficulties working alone with the Finnish authorities. In such situations, the expert assistant has a major role to play in ensuring that the applicant’s legal security is ensured. Even the government proposal acknowledges that this change would not speed up the process of processing applications but could even slow it down. The absence of an assistant at the interview stage may increase the need for clarification at the later stages of the process. In many cases, the applicant does not know what he or she needs to say at the hearing and what he or she needs to say. A professional assistant will not only be useful for the legal security to be assisted, but will also contribute to the smooth running of the process and ensure that essential issues can be addressed in the asylum interview. It is not in anyone’s interest that the interview fails to resolve the essential issues that may then arise for the first time in the complaints stage. The Government's proposal does not highlight economic or procedural reasons that are proportionate to the legal security risks, legal uncertainty and risks posed by the proposed limitation of legal aid. The right to legal aid at the hearing is therefore not justified and the government proposal should be rejected in this respect. Mr President! A more precise definition of the eligibility of assistants is to be welcomed as such. It is justified that only lawyers who are subject to professional supervision systems can act as assistants. However, in the form proposed in the government proposal, the amendment of the law would also mean that legal aid at the stage of processing an application for international protection would be concentrated in legal aid offices. A private legal adviser could only be appointed as an assistant on the basis of the specific criteria laid down in Article 10 of the Law on State Aid Offices, such as, for example, the lack of access for public legal advisers to new aids on behalf of the workload. The change would remove the possibility for the applicant to choose his/her assistants and would lead to the fact that, as a general rule, those specialised in the management of foreign affairs would no longer be able to assist the client in the administrative process. A considerable number of legal expertise in foreign affairs could be left unexploited. President! With regard to detention, several opinions have drawn attention to the problem of the proposed amendment. In his opinion, the Parliamentary Ombudsman pointed out that, in the case of a foreigner who has been detained, regular treatment is intended to safeguard everyone's right to personal freedom and security and to ensure that no one's freedom is arbitrarily deprived. Regular control of deprivation of liberty is particularly important for foreigners in custody who are languageless and do not know the rights offered to them by Finnish law. Those who have lost their freedom are always in a certain vulnerable position and those who have been detained, who lose their freedom only for administrative reasons, need special legal guarantees. If implemented, the proposed amendment would undermine the legal security of those detained. A court hearing, which would take place only at the request of the detained person, would require the detention of the detained person to be active and to be informed of the procedure and his/her rights. According to the Ombudsman’s findings in detention units, foreign persons in custody are often unaware of their own legal situation, of the grounds for detention or, for example, of how long detention will continue. The proposal does not in any way indicate how the right to information would be safeguarded. The proposal should therefore be rejected. We will be presenting the proposals for sections of the Socialist and Christian Democrats in the debate. Finally, I would like to say that it is right that everyone in this House should be concerned that Finland's line and reputation as a promoter of human rights and a developed country of legal protection will remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u130	Madam President! Finland is the rule of law. Many of us have spoken well today, and each of us will certainly appreciate that we live in the rule of law, both in our own hearts and in our own hearts. Unfortunately, when you look at this government proposal, the principles of the rule of law are far from being human and human. It is certainly true that speeding up these processing times, streamlining the initial stages of the process and increasing the resources of the authorities are all to be welcomed, but unfortunately none of these are being implemented in this proposal. When we talk about asylum seekers, we must remember that we are basically talking about people who are in a foreign culture, a foreign language environment, and everyone can think about what it would be like to be in a completely foreign environment and even knowing that their own legal protection is at risk. Surely that is the only way we will be able to understand these people who are in this position at the moment. Unfortunately, as several representatives have already said, this government proposal, above all, undermines people's legal protection. I personally see that simply seeking cost savings is not a good enough reason to give up good administration and fair trial and securing it. There has been particular concern here about the use of assistants, and it is difficult to understand that this proposal talks about the need to have strong reasons in particular. In most cases, every asylum seeker who comes to Finland has strong reasons for seeking protection. How do we find these people who are in a special position in some way? In this proposal we have talked about traumatized, illiterate and underage children. There is great concern about how we can identify these people. On the other hand, people who do not necessarily know do not recognise their own rights, such as people who have just been under torture in their own country, people who have been very traumatized, who have ended up in Finland on a long journey, often wonder about the current situation in life and what is happening to them, not to mention victims of trafficking, for example, who certainly do not know what their legal protection should be here in Finland. Here, Mrs Kari also spoke very well about this concern of the Helsinki Administrative Court, which is perfectly justified. This reduction in the number of complaints is justified by the fact that they are indeed being shortened, but, for example, the Helsinki Administrative Court has very frankly expressed its concern that this will, above all, be prolonged, become even more complicated and, above all, when such hasty preparations are made, even bigger problems will be found in front of it, which, on the contrary, will prolong and worsen this preparatory work. It is also very questionable whether the speed then it is our goal in these, when talking about big things and knowing quite well what the risks of this kind of fast processing can be for people's legal protection. Madam President! I myself have travelled many of these reception centres during this last spring and autumn, and at the moment people are worried enormously. There's a ton of negative decisions. People do not know what they are doing with these decisions, people are concerned about whether their applications will be dealt with individually, as we are, of course, supposed to be dealing with, and even now it seems that there is no lawyer, there is no assistant, everything is found in Helsinki, there is hardly anyone on the phone. The staff of the reception centres are fully employed to try to catch these assistants and to catch lawyers. In other words, instead of improving this current situation and giving people the right legal aid and legal protection that asylum seekers need, this, unfortunately, is further undermining it in a very sad way. I agree with Mr Räsänen in that, in politics, at least, I am going to assume that efforts are being made to improve the position of people, but unfortunately, at the moment it seems that we also have representatives here in Parliament and even a party whose starting point is to weaken the position of a group of people, and that is regrettable policy making. We talk about people's lives, their lives, their future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u133	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am not a member of either the Committee on Legal Affairs or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or the Committee on Administration, which, I understand, has also given its opinion to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, so I will deal with this matter in the light of the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the opinions of these committees. Mr President! It has been pointed out that, contrary to what the government is trying to do, this does not succeed in shortening these time periods for processing asylum applications. And, of course, it is true that at the moment the longest processing time in this process is in the Finnish Immigration Service, where the average processing time here is said to be around 9 months. After all, in the face of an exceptional situation, the government has tried to speed up this process by recruiting hundreds of new workers to the Finnish Immigration Service, as I understand it, so that these processing times do not become excessively long. But it has been said here that the proposals now being made do not shorten the total processing times and that many experts, for example in the Committee on Legal Affairs, have drawn attention to this. Of course, this can be the case. In any event, this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs on page 4 assesses, as the chairman of the committee stated in his presentation, that the changes now being made, together with certain practical arrangements, will increase productivity by around 20%, and it is also estimated that the trial time at the courts, which are now in the administrative court and the Supreme Administrative Court for about a year in total, would be reduced by a couple of months to about 10 months. So this is the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Of course, reducing processing times is an objective for all of us, because it is in the interests of both this applicant and society as a whole. Mr Kari said that there has been no consideration of human rights issues at all. That is not true. Once the Constitutional Committee has delivered its opinion on this matter, it has specifically examined this government proposal in relation to our own constitution, of course, but also in relation to the international human rights treaties that bind us. In other words, at that stage this review has been carried out and, as Mr Karikin said, as a result, the government's proposal has been modified in the case of minors, because it has been considered that the government's proposal in this respect is incompatible with some international agreements binding on us. I'm not sure I understood Mr. Ville. That is correct, but I think he said in some way that in this constitutional review or in the examination of international human rights treaties it is not enough to see whether this is compatible with these articles and regulations and agreements, but should also look at the political side of the matter or, let us say now, the 'justice side'. In my opinion, however, there is a fairly clear division of labour. In other words, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must consider the draft law in relation to the Constitution and, of course, also in relation to international treaties binding on Finland. The questions as to whether the draft law is good, whether it strengthens legal certainty, whether it is in accordance with good administration and so on are questions on which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs often takes a position and expresses its views, as in this case, to the Committee on Legal Affairs. This is, of course, perfectly appropriate and possible for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But the idea that the Constitutional Committee should declare a draft law contrary to our constitution or, for example, against the European Convention on Human Rights, even if the European Court of Human Rights does not take this view, simply because it would prevent legislation which the Constitutional Committee or some of its members do not consider to be fair, to improve legal protection or to be good enough otherwise, is, of course, foreign. I was surprised when I came across this thinking in an article by a couple of constitutional scholars, Professors Ojane and Lavapuro, in the Constitutional Blog, which I am sure Mr Ville Niinistö has also read. Their ideas, if I understood correctly, went that way — when they criticised Mr Niinistö and others for not having left a different opinion in the Constitutional Committee's opinion on this proposal for family reunification — that, because they felt that the bill was bad and would lead to a worse development, they criticised the opposition representatives in the Constitutional Committee for not leaving their opinion against the Constitutional Committee's opinion. I do think, as I think, that Mr Ville Niinistö thought, when he did not disagree, that the place for expressing this dissenting opinion is not the Constitutional Committee, but, in this case, the Family Unity Act, the Administrative Committee, in which the representatives of the Greens and others have naturally objected. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee has been said here that it has not been sufficiently taken into account, and it is true that the Constitutional Committee has put forward certain aspects which have not been taken into account by the Legal Affairs Committee. This is not unusual in any way: the tobacco law was discussed above, and there too, for example, as regards balcony smoking, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when emphasising the rights of the smoker, introduced a number of amendments which were not taken into account by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. However, when I read this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I think that some of the proposals in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been quite well ignored here. They've been explained here. For example, here on page 7 of the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we are talking about this legal protection of those detained, and here the Committee on Legal Affairs writes: 'This is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered that if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decides to propose the amendment of the law as proposed in the government's proposal, it is necessary to include in the law provisions that ensure effective and effective arrangements for a foreigner in custody to be effectively informed of his rights and to understand them.' The Legal Committee then writes in this way: "The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights notes that there are already appropriate and adequate provisions on information on the rights and obligations of detained foreigners, since Article 5(1) of the Act on the treatment of foreigners and the detention facility requires that the detained foreigners be informed without delay of their detention arrangements, of their rights and obligations and of the rules of procedure of the detention unit. This information shall, as far as possible, be provided in writing in the mother tongue or language of the person concerned, which he may reasonably be expected to understand." And then it says here that the interpreter is there and so on. The Committee on Legal Affairs also writes: "The committee also draws attention to the fact that, according to the report received, there is always an assistant in practice. In addition, an interpreter is present. The assistant is relevant to the legal security taken into custody, as the assistant evaluates the need for a retrial together with the client and assists the person detained in the retrial." In other words, with this example, I would just like to say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to this matter and, in my opinion, on very appropriate grounds, the Committee on Legal Affairs has justified why it has not been followed. And a similar example here is the fact that, given the'special reason' behind this intervention, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that a'special reason' should suffice, and the Committee on Legal Affairs should in a way correct it by writing: 'A condition for granting legal aid at the administrative stage is, in principle, a special requirement for applicants for international protection. In view of the above, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers that it is neither justified nor appropriate to turn the claim for a particularly serious reason into a claim for a particular reason." Here are just a few examples: I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has very carefully argued why certain opinions or certain aspects of the Constitutional Committee have not been taken into account. Of course, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been taken into account for these young people, because, as I said, the Constitutional Committee considered that the proposal was contrary to international agreements binding on us. When these youths are spoken of, it may be good for all to understand that they are not alone there in the interview anyway. Even the government proposal was based on the fact that, in practice, there would always be an assistant for young people, and in addition to what everyone may not know, young people always have a representative in the interview there. So these kids or the kids aren't alone. Finally, Mr President, if anyone wants proof that we have a ridiculous bureaucracy that unnecessarily prevents a smooth administration, I will read the following paragraph on page 8 of the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights: 'The highest administrative and regional administrative courts have the right to obtain from the Finnish Immigration Service the confidential information they need in the case of a foreigner in question.' Now, of course, this is perfectly understandable and perfectly natural. The quote goes on to say: "The fact that the courts cannot obtain the information they need from the register by means of a technical connection is, however, slowing down the proceedings of the Court of Justice, because it has not been provided for. Since the courts are not legally defined as the controller of a foreign registry, they are also unable to deposit in that register information on their decision in the case of immigration. This complicates and slows down the transmission of information on decisions to the authorities implementing them." The only question arises: how much of this unnecessary bureaucracy, which slows things down and hinders the smooth handling of matters, does it not affect people's legal security or their rights, but unnecessarily complicates the smooth and sensible handling of matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u134	Mr President! I thank Mrs Zyskowicz for her constructive contribution. What Mr Zyskowicz has said about the role of the Constitutional Committee is quite right, and I agree with him on this. But what I myself wanted to say, which is a worrying feature, as Mr Kari also pointed out in his speech, is that there is a certain feeling during this term of government that all human rights assessments will be outsourced to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That's not how it can go. In its role, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will say what must not be done, which is absolutely impossible for the Constitution and for international obligations. In addition, it gives very carefully weighed recommendations and admonitions that are usually used to be taken into account. But even after that comes political responsibility for what is good governance, good action in the rule of law, and that is what I wanted to emphasise, that somehow it feels that the responsibility for presenting legislative proposals to Parliament is not being given, and that is the responsibility of the government. This has been the recurring concern of experts consulted by the Constitutional Committee that the level of legislative proposals in relation to these human rights, such as children's rights, assessments and also gender impact assessments is often rather weak in other proposals. It would be in the interests of everyone in Parliament to pay attention to it, because it will avoid having Parliament change them, or it may even be that if Parliament lets them through as such, there are many things that have not been properly evaluated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u135	Madam President! To Mr Niinistö, I would like to say that the concern about the level of legislative proposals prepared by the government and the depth of preparation is certainly justified, but it is eternal. As long as I remember, and I have been in this house for quite a while, this same concern has been expressed. Otherwise, we will agree with Mr Niinistö this time, namely that the Constitutional Committee has its own role to play, that it will have legal discretion as to whether the proposed proposals are in line with the international obligations that bind us and with our own constitution. But the fact that they are in harmony does not, of course, mean that the proposals put forward are considered by all to be fair or to improve legal certainty or otherwise good and justified. This is a political reflection, for which the responsibility lies, of course, to those Members of Parliament and parties who support these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u136	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u137	Madam President! Once again, I must thank the government. With this motion again, it slows down the foreign law in a more stringent direction, i.e. in the direction that the Finns of Finland have been aiming for for a long time. It is extremely important that Finland should become a less attractive country for new asylum seekers to come and that fewer asylum seekers should be allowed to stay in Finland. After all, the speed or slowness of the procedure to which reference has been made is a side-effect if we can limit this number of new arrivals and if fewer of those new arrivals remain. Then what is also a very good thing is that these legal aiders are restricted. In my work at that asylum seeker’s reception centre, I found that these assistants in particular tried to come up with things that might be useful for these authorities, that is, the asylum seeker, as if in practice, was briefed for this investigation to answer these questions as if it were right. In other words, even these experts, which I saw, in practice, the majority of those who oppose are mainly those who have benefited themselves in some way from this old situation, the Law covenant and so on. However, when many here are concerned that these asylum seekers are so distressed and thus, and how rights are realised, it is necessary to remind them that the majority of these asylum seekers, contrary to what is claimed, are not, as it were, real refugees. This has become a channel of social migration, and often — practically every time we come to Finland — has come through safe countries, even since the first Somalis came from Somalia 25 years ago: they came from Russia, had lived in Russia for years, but when the funding ran out from Russia, we were forced to go this way. This is a good thing to remember here that many of these asylum seekers today, too, are... — — — — There's a tap on the way I think I'm going to go, that's what I'm going to do. Madam President! Indeed, it was only intended to be brief, but every time I spent 12 years practically working with these asylum seekers, this subject is made to talk. In other words, what I have seen and experienced, and when you look at these decisions, most of these asylum seekers are not really in need of help, and even those who may have been in the first place have come to Finland through other countries. They would have had the opportunity to apply for this asylum there and so on. In the future, it would be an extremely important thing to move to an international system where asylum can only be sought at a distance, for example through international refugee camps. Then, if the application were accepted, this person would be sought, like quota refugees, to Finland or to the country where an asylum seeker has now been applied for. Then, if there were to be a wreck, these complaints could also be dealt with remotely, as in other judicial processes, which do not always require the person to be there. These spontaneous border asylum seekers would always be driven to those camps maintained by the international community to submit their application at a distance. In my view, this is the only chance in the future. When it is always said that this is the second worst refugee crisis since World War II, I believe that this is the worst refugee crisis ever, this is a much greater refugee crisis than after World War II. So this has been going on for 25 years, and it is getting worse, bigger and bigger every year. What was after World War II had lasted for a few years, and those people actually became integrated and did not need any social support, they were employed and so. This just keeps growing and growing every year. This current system will not last in Finland or in Europe as a whole. This is an untenable situation if this continues for a very long time. That is why it is a very good thing that this situation is now being resolved in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u139	Honorable Madam Speaker! I will comment on just a few of the points that have been made here. Mr Zyskowicz has already told us about the retrial of this detention procedure that it is based on the law and that in such a case there is always an assistant and an interpreter present, so that no one's legal protection will be harmed. Yes, this detained person always has the right to have his case brought before the court. Then this asylum interview and the limitation of its legal aid. Well, in fact, it is only a system that is now being established, and only a system that is already being put into practice. It is a fact that this government proposal should have already been that a person under the age of 18 who came alone is also entitled to legal aid in an asylum interview. But now, from a very practical living life: the situation goes so that, before talking about asylum, always in principle, this householder meets first with his assistant, that is, before talking to him, they go through things. The current practice is that good lawyers are not present in this asylum interview — that is the main rule — because they consider that they have nothing to do there, that they have met this client before the interview. And, of course, every asylum speaker acts on official responsibility. If he finds that this person, the householder, is, for example, in a very vulnerable position, he must stop the interview and then the assistant will be obtained there. I trust these officials that they are responsible for this work. And then, briefly, this reduction in the number of complaints. That's not when the assistant who's going to write that complaint shows up in that process, but he's been there months before, 10 months earlier. He knows this case. He can file a complaint. And yes, the Minister of Justice has estimated that for two months we will be able to shorten these processing times by means of these methods, and that is above all in the interests of this asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u140	Madam President! Acceleration of processes is in itself a worthy objective, and this government proposal also contained such proposals that we can agree with, including this reduction of the compositions from three to two judges and so away, which seems to me to take the right direction. But then it is clear that some of these reforms are going in the opposite direction, that is to say that the processes are likely to lengthen, and that is why we have rejected this objection. That is where the representative referred to this reduction in the time for appeal, and I do find it problematic that it is now being shortened from 30 to 21 days and from 14 days in the case of the Supreme Administrative Court. The strange thing is that when this is a month-long process, it is precisely at the most sensitive stage that this appeal period will be reduced by a week and a half. So does it matter in terms of the outcome? I can see it's not. There are problems here, because it is not, in principle, simple to lodge a complaint. In many cases it is a very difficult and complex matter, and given the language problems and the large number of cases of expert assistants in the current refugee situation, we have to consider this thirty-day appeal period to be somewhat strict. And the reason why I say that this leads in the opposite direction is that this reduction in the time for appeal can also lead to an increase in the proportion of cases of hasty and incomplete complaints, which would, in turn, increase delays in the subsequent stages of the process. And then, with regard to this detention, I would have liked this old practice to have survived, that it was brought up every couple of weeks by a court of law, and not as is now being proposed in this motion, that is to say, that this matter rests on the activity that has been detained. However, it is a rather restrictive measure when freedom is limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u141	Mr President! I think that Mr Eerola has proved quite well what is actually behind the government's proposal and the aim: to tighten immigration policy, to tighten the situation of refugees, to give them worse conditions, to send out the signal that we are not very generous to asylum seekers. I think he said everything that actually seems to be behind this, because it is quite obvious that, as the experts have assessed, the objectives that will be written in the government proposal will not be fulfilled, quite the opposite, so in fact this will cost the taxpayers' money even more. But perhaps it is worth giving the impression that the legal protection of refugees and people is being tightened up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u142	Mr President! That's right, but there were two mistakes. First of all, I do not want to talk about refugees when most of them are not, but this is such social migration, so they are not actually refugees in that way, as we now see from these decisions: very few of them receive asylum. Secondly, these costs for taxpayers will be lower. If and when these blackmails result in fewer asylum seekers coming here, then these costs for taxpayers will be considerably lower than they are at present. In my opinion, the aim should be to say, personally, that there would be about the same number of asylum seekers as Estonia each year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u143	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 17/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u144	Mr President! The first thing we need to say on the basis of this is that this was actually whether we could use the term, the unpleasant thing to deal with. We, who have been doing this legislation in Finland last season, know this painful history of birth, and it was not very pleasant to deal with it. But in any case, responsibility must be borne and Finland’s interests always serve to the best of its own. Due to the sensitivity of the matter, there was a very extensive and thorough consultation on this and, in fact, all the stones and stumps were turned around. I was thinking that I would not go through this, but there is so much detail here that this should be made public even now if it has not yet been read. Statements by the Committee General: Cabotage of goods means the intra-state transport of a vehicle registered in another EU country. Cabotage has long been possible for EU and EEA carriers — that is, for a long time now. For the sake of clarity, the committee draws attention to the fact that the proposal under discussion and the regulation on cabotage do not otherwise apply to cross-border traffic between Finland and third countries such as Russia. Transport between Finland and Russia is still governed by international agreements between countries. So many people who see a Russian truck think it's cabotage, and that's not true at all. So the first thing you need to know is what that cabotage is. Cabotage is provided for in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2009 on common provisions on access to the international road haulage market. In other words, this is the EU regulation on the authorisation of goods, specifically the emphasis on 'the regulation' — the regulation and the directive are quite different. One of the fundamental principles underlying this regulation is the free movement of people, goods and services within the EU internal market. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the law on commercial goods transport on the road — and this is dated 2006 — so as to repeal the national provisions of Article 6a on cabotage and to refer only to the provisions of the EU Customs Authorisation Regulation. In other words, only one article will be deleted, and the existing EU regulation on the authorisation of goods transport is what will guide it. In the future, Finland would therefore apply only the provisions of the EU Regulation, which is directly applicable at national level, as in almost all other EU countries. During the in-depth examination of the matter, there have been conflicting consultations with experts and very different views have also been expressed on the impact and significance of the proposal. The statistics available have been challenged during the proceedings, which were not likely to facilitate or speed up the proceedings and the decision-making process. A level playing field: Cabotage has been estimated to have positive effects in terms of e.g. avoiding driving empty, optimising transport costs and reducing emissions — this is the starting point of the EU regulation. In addition, these transports provide Finnish transport companies with business opportunities in other Member States, as is clearly demonstrated by the fact that according to official statistics, the number of cabotage carried out abroad by Finnish transport companies is many times higher than that carried out in Finland by foreign transport companies. According to statistics, Finland and Finnish transport companies therefore benefit from cabotage. It is difficult to obtain reliable information on the amount of cabotage in Finland, and there are clearly different views on this in the expert consultation. It is particularly difficult to obtain information on the actual amount of illegal cabotage. In other words, we recognise that there is illegal cabotage and we must also be aware that illegal cabotage is illegal cabotage now and even after this change, and illegal cabotage must be tackled with strong hands. A wide range of serious concerns have been raised in the expert consultation, including in relation to the conditions for fair competition between operators and the increase in the black economy if the number of cabotage operations in Finland were to increase in the future. The committee considers the concerns raised in the expert consultation to be justified. Act 5a on commercial goods transport by road§ the obligation to provide proof of the legality Above all, the fight against possible mild phenomena calls for the effectiveness of controls to ensure compliance with regulation. — — — — Do you think I jumped over some line? — In any event, the subscriber must find out whether the ride is lawful. Inefficient control must not lead to unfair competition or an increase in the black economy. According to a report received by the Committee, the carrier must be able to provide clear evidence of international carriage in cabotage and of each subsequent cabotage journey. In practice, all international carriages must have a transport document. There has been some confusion as to whether or not a transport document should be used for cabotage operations. The committee expects the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of the Interior to work together to ensure that compliance with the provisions of the EU Customs Authorisation Regulation on cabotage transport is ensured as effectively as possible and to pay particular attention to the regulatory oversight of cabotage transport documents on the road. The committee stresses that police, customs and border guards are also entitled to stop vehicles in order to check the necessary documents. The committee also considers it necessary to assess as soon as possible the possibilities for introducing an electronic transport document or other electronic procedures and technologies to ensure compliance with the rules. In addition, a comprehensive assessment should be made of how fair conditions of competition for transport undertakings can be ensured and possible mild events on the market prevented. Fair conditions of competition on the market also require fair compliance with obligations in relation to employment in transport undertakings. According to a report received by the committee, cabotage transport must also comply with the requirements of Finnish legislation and collective agreements where applicable, but this is not always the case in practice. The committee refers to the report of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities dated this year, which highlighted the need to closely monitor the impact of the new legislation on the posting of workers under EU regulation on road transport. According to the report, the minimum time limits for the work of the law in question and under the conditions laid down by the law for notification and other obligations are poorly suited to road transport and, if necessary, follow-up measures should be taken to improve the implementation of the directive which is to be transposed into force by the said law. The Committee on Transport and Communications also draws attention to the fact that, according to the report received at EU level, the Commission has provisionally pointed out, in the context of the new proposals on road transport regulation, that the regulation of posted workers in road transport would in future be explicitly included in the regulation of road transport. The committee hopes that this will lead to clear improvements to the problems of fair compliance. The preparation of this regulation must be actively involved, but in any case, new and effective solutions must be sought at both national and EU level in the short term. The committee draws attention to the fact that the EU's regulation on the authorisation of goods transport is essentially linked to the requirement of temporary cabotage. According to the Regulation, cabotage refers to national services temporarily carried out on behalf of another person in the host Member State in accordance with that Regulation. The committee considers it clear that the requirement of temporaryity laid down in the regulation cannot mean anything other than that the activity in question cannot be continuous. The committee therefore considers it important that the provisions of the regulation be applied equally from this central point of view. The committee would like to see a more precise definition of temporaryity at EU level in the future. Conclusions: On the basis of an in-depth report from the Committee on Transport and Communications, the committee considers that the legislative solution proposed is in practice the only and inevitable option in the current situation. For this reason, the committee proposes the adoption of a draft law without amendment. The committee expects the Ministry of Transport and Communications to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the practical impact of the legislative amendment and the possible need for change. In addition, the committee stresses that the Government must ensure that the supervisory authorities operate in order to ensure compliance with the EU regulation on the authorisation of goods. It is particularly important that compliance with the provisions on the transport document is effectively monitored. In order to prevent possible mild phenomena caused by regulation at EU level, there is also a need to play an active role in further preparation at EU level and to highlight the specific characteristics of Finland's conditions in the preparation process. There is also the objection made by the two parties, but, as you heard, the issue is rather complex and the data and statistics that have been brought into the consultation, the figures, were likely to confuse it, so this has been difficult to deal with. But as stated in that conclusion, this is the only and inevitable option in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u145	Madam President! For the first time in five years, I heard the entire draft report from the committee read here in Parliament — but it is a very serious matter in itself. Mr President! Competition is part of the business and Finnish transport companies or their employees are not afraid of fair competition. The problem with EU cabotage legislation is an undefined temporaryity, which has so far been specified in national legislation. The idea of cabotage as such must be supported: to reduce the empty driving of imported foreign trucks. According to EU regulations, collective agreements in another EU country must be respected in good time and drivers must be paid at least the same salary. This is not a problem either for Finnish drivers driving cabotage in other EU countries. However, poorly defined EU legislation will change the competitive situation in Finland if there are no clear control limits and regulations that can be monitored by our authorities. In this situation, the level of control has no effect. Our current resources already make it difficult to comprehensively monitor the technical condition and driving times of heavy-duty vehicles. What resources can we use to monitor in practice the free movement of foreign lorries in terms of driving rights and working conditions? In the hearing of the committee, in the consultation of experts, including the Regional State Administrative Agency, which is responsible for this control, it has brought us such a clear list of how the control works from a traditional perspective. Answer: In practice, there is no supervision because the employer is a foreigner and works here only for a short time. Foreign controls — no controls are carried out because there is no information on the operators. Ordering liability law — in practice the same challenge, is not known where the operators are, and so on. This is already the case at the moment. The proposal in the committee's report will give a lower level of cost for lorries from EU countries an unfair competitive advantage vis-à-vis domestic entrepreneurs. Transport costs will only decrease if wages under collective agreements are not paid. The government has been very concerned about jobs and entrepreneurs. With this performance, both will suffer. Domestic SMEs that employ Finns will lose in competition against multinational giants and those who relocated to the Baltics or Eastern Europe. In a competitive transport market, profitability is already challenging, even though the sector employs 100,000 people and brings tax revenue to Finland worth EUR 2.7 billion. That is why I am forced to marvel at the change in the course of the Finnish Government in a matter in which previous governments have defended the national interests of our country. Eradicating the entire national cabotage legislation is a solution that I do not understand. During this spring, we have often discussed this issue in this Chamber, and it has been said across party boundaries that the EU road transport package, with its possible changes, is on the way. Similarly, Denmark continues to challenge the EU for the same reasons. There would've been a chance if you'd found the will. In this regard, the Finnish transport sector can look particularly hard on the government parties in the direction of the basic Finns who participated in the truck marches last season. I would ask Minister Berner if he were there, where are the proposals for Finland's countermeasures. A year ago, the government decided on its policy, and since then there has been talk of possible vignettes, winter tires, electronic transport documents, and so on, to protect domestic transport companies. Will you wait until it is too late, or will these countermeasures simply be discussed? The previous, very smart Minister of Transport, Paula Risikko, would have taken the matter to the European Court of Justice and would not have gone to loosen the law, as Berner and Soini are now doing in good harmony. It can't be a week-to-week practice based on repeated and circumventing the law. From the point of view of supervision, the limits laid down by law are necessary. Therefore, Finland’s national provisions concerning the definition of cabotage temporaryity and the definition of cabotage transport are justified and not contrary to the EU Regulation. In Finland, a country with long distances, these issues need to be treated with sensitivity. Finland is dependent on the transport of rubber wheels. We do not want the Finnish truck fleet and the workforce to be flagged out. I believe that the government should be strong under pressure from the EU, especially since its actions are totally contrary to the opening speeches of the government parties. Can the government sacrifice Finnish drivers and jobs by ignoring the concerns of Finnish transport entrepreneurs? We have tabled a motion for rejection in committee and we will do it here in Parliament during this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u146	Madam President! A respected former Minister of Transport! In this context, it is necessary to state the line taken during the previous governments, even when Minister Kyllönen was Minister of Transport: Finland stood by itself. The current chairman of the Transport Committee from the Finnish People's Party was on the same front. We agreed on how we should act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u153	Mr President! In the referral debate, I hoped that this draft law would remain in committee long enough to provide us with new information on the EU transport package. We persist in defending and defending Finnish transport companies and transport jobs. According to the report, the committee has received a very broad and thorough report and states that this solution is the only and inevitable option in the current situation. I trust this view of the committee. In the EU, the message from small countries has been that cabotage should be reduced in order to make transport from small countries more competitive abroad. Finnish transport companies seem to be more on the line of the big European countries, Germany and France, pushing for stricter cabotage rules. My main concerns relate to whether cabotage can be effectively controlled and whether companies will have a level playing field in the future. Inefficient control must not lead to an increase in the shadow economy and unfair competition between transport undertakings. The proposal to extend controls, which would enable Customs and the police to stop cars on the road and move from a fine to administrative sanctions, seems to me to be a good thing. In addition, we must ensure that we cannot leave the country until the administrative penalty has been met. Maybe we'll hear about this in the future. I am very concerned about road safety. I am horrified by the fact that in the winter conditions of northern Finland there are heavy-duty foreign trucks with no stud rings and which are not used to winter rollers. The winter tire must also be done very quickly. I also hope that very soon we will find a solution that foreign trucks will pay for the use of Finnish roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u154	Madam President! From the outset, it must be said that the signatories of the objection have understood very well what is important about cabotage: initially a very sensible proposal, an environmentally friendly cabotage transport which removes empty driving of transport units. This is what cabotage is all about. Thank you for that to the signatories of the objection. However, I would like to correct one clear error in the objection. It mentioned these appropriations for the grey economy. Since the beginning of 2016, the Government has allocated a special budget to combat the shadow economy and has not removed, as was implied in this protest, which means that the shadow economy in Finland is still being rejected and there are funds earmarked for it. It has been said, perhaps in hindsight, that there is now a change in the definition of cabotage in Finland. That is true in that regard, but the definition that was put into that cabotage transport during the previous regime is a controversial issue and it is now being removed, and new definitions would rightly be required. However, these definitions should have been made in the last period in order to avoid this awkward situation. But in the last government it was not taken up, among other things there was no winter tyre requirement that could regulate the issue, no vinjet fee. These are difficult decisions, and I understand that it was not easy to put them back then, but we went into this definition, the definition of unloading, which is now embarrassing. This protest and the media suggest that Finland would be opening up all the competition. This is not the case, however, but the cabotage regulations both in Finland and in the EU as a whole are now identical and equal in all countries, with the exception of Denmark, which is still included in these regulations. We must remember what remains, i.e. under the regulation on international road transport, cabotage is limited to three transports within seven days and after the vehicle has arrived in Finland in international transport. The legislation currently in force in Finland removes its definition of the temporary nature of their driving, but we still have the cabotage rule in force, i.e. we are now acting on an equal footing within the EU among all EU countries. Finnish entrepreneurs drive cabotage in European countries, and European entrepreneurs can use the same principles to drive cabotage in Finland. That is fair competition policy, and that is what we are doing. It is also fair to pay drivers an appropriate salary in the country where it belongs. That is what cabotage is all about. We are now abandoning the definition of cabotage and the requirement of temporaryity, which has been laid down in Finland during the last government term. Attention has been paid here to this effectiveness and the complexity of controls. It is true that it would have been a challenge for the police and for the police, especially the mobile police, to continue to do so. But during the last reign, it was abandoned. Now the trouble is coming to fruition. It is important to note that the Finnish transport sector has raised the concerns raised in that committee's report too, namely the issues of security of supply, transport and safety, the fact that foreign drivers are often not sufficiently familiar with the Finnish rules of transport, the problems of communication, the problems at the points of demolition, et cetera et cetera. But these things have been well taken into account in that committee report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u155	Madam President! The European Union has free movement of people, goods, services within the EU internal market. With this principle in mind, we are also facing the legislation of this government's proposal. Finland is a country of long distances. We are an island compared to other countries, but rubber cycle traffic is undoubtedly one of the most important modes of movement of goods in Finland. Cabotage has been possible for a long time within the EU and the EEA. So far, we have in fact been able, perhaps in our own way, to promote the Finnish interest, i.e. to take the raisins out of the bun. In Finland, 86 tonne-kilometres of cabotage have been transported, while our domestic entrepreneurs have driven 250 tonne-kilometres of cabotage abroad. So many times our entrepreneurs have been on the roads of other countries, and this is something that we still want to promote more than ever, that our entrepreneurs may also be transporting goods abroad. In the committee hearing, experts have been divided, as has been proven here. That is why it has been a little difficult to deal with. This disagreement: perhaps this is what we have been arguing about in this Chamber. The positive impact of this cabotage legislation, in addition to the free movement of our domestic entrepreneurs in the EU and the EEA area, is also that we want to avoid and eradicate empty driving and optimise transport costs. There is also a desire to reduce emissions from this transport. When cabotage is driven, it will not be done completely wild in the future. It has its own limitations, and when you drive cabotage in Finland, it is true that transport must comply with Finnish legislation and also with the applications required by collective agreements, which means that no wild west will be in this sector either. We are, of course, concerned about a number of issues in the face of this legislation. We call for the arrival of international transport to be accompanied by appropriate documents, i.e. transport documents. We also call for this legislation to be complied with in road transport. This control, which has also been well highlighted here, needs to be given more attention. The government has also given its own million dollars to eradicate the black economy, and that is where we want to put money. The reform of the Road Transport Act is currently under way — it was asked whether nothing has been promoted during this parliamentary term. They also want to push the winter tires forward. Similarly, the possibility of vignette charges for foreign transport must be promoted during this parliamentary term. It has still not been put into effect, and the opponents must be somewhere else than inside this hall. In order to facilitate the transport of goods, legislation should continue to be possible. It is therefore important that, in the future, there should be more controls on heavy traffic and this cabotage traffic on the road. And when we were also talking about the temporary nature of this compliance with the regulation on the authorisation of goods, we in the European Parliament will hopefully also be promoting that national interest at the Union's tables in order to determine what is the temporary carriage of goods. It was hoped, as the committee wanted, that it would be clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u156	Madam President! I myself read the Minutes of the referral to this House on 9 February. I also recalled the occasion organised by the ACP, SKAL and ALT for the same February. Both of these events allowed members of the government parties to understand that there are still many ways that the government proposal can change, fade and various tools and instruments are in use. I dare say that in reality there were no such things. We in Finland have been fighting for the conditions of the domestic transport industry for years and against EU cabotage legislation. In my view, the government's approach to completely abolishing national legislation is unacceptable, and it is also, in my opinion, bad lobbying. This proposal will make it difficult for Finnish transport companies to become more competitive — note, not "comes" but "comes" and will certainly increase the black economy. Furthermore, the fact that the government wanted to pass the law in a situation where the road transport package prepared by the Commission is still in progress seems at least strange. According to the Government, one of the reasons for this haste is to sue Finland. Would it not have been possible to appeal to the Commission to state why it would change the cabotage legislation in a situation where the Commission's road transport package is setting out guidelines and reforms on the same subject? This cabotage decision in our hands is increasingly challenging our own traffic control, which has perhaps already weakened even further since the abolition of the mobile police. I hope we all agree that it will be necessary to invest considerably more in the monitoring of heavy traffic in particular in the future. And as far as these police resources are concerned, during the last parliamentary term they were prepared to increase the number of police officers — just up to the middle of the question — when there were just over 7,000. Now the government is ready to cut the total number of police officers to 6500. On the other hand, as far as the grey economy is concerned, during the last parliamentary term, it did in this respect:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u157	Madam President! In the words of Matti Esko, for weeks a trucker can swallow asphalt on the road. The Finnish transport operator keeps the economy's wheels rolling. The demanding and heavy transport sector is already under enormous pressure of profitability. In addition, the Government intends to liberalise foreign truck traffic in Finland. The proposal proposes to dismantle national legislation on cabotage. Cabotage refers to intra-country temporary transport by means of a vehicle registered in a foreign country. Entrepreneurs have been concerned about the government's actions, as the arrival of foreign trucks is now being released for Finland's roads. This would revolutionise the competitive situation and open wide doors to the black economy and will further challenge jobs in the transport sector. Transporters have made a lot of investments. The sector has been having problems with profitability all along, and truckers are already weighing a really long day. Removing the definitions of national legislation would increase cabotage traffic in Finland. The threat is that unfair competition and the shadow economy will increase significantly in this sector. The turnover of road freight transport in Finland is approximately EUR 6 billion and employs only freight transport drivers around 70,000. We are talking about an industry that costs an estimated 2.7 billion, or almost half of the revenue, of around EUR 6 billion, in taxes to the state. The problems of the proposal were generally recognised in the parliamentary referral debate. There were no proponents for the show in the gym. The timing of the performance was also a source of surprise. The EU is coming up with a long-standing road law package next year, which is expected to clarify the Union's legislation on cabotage as well. Denmark, for example, is not in the same position to abandon its own national policies. One cannot help but wonder at the willingness of the government to change the current Finnish line, especially now that the EU road law package is expected in early next year and this issue would have been dealt with in the context of that package. If this proposal is now passed, it is clear that there will be difficulties. At present, the authorities — health and safety authorities, Customs and the police — have neither tools nor resources to carry out supervisory tasks. As a representative The Taimela has pointed out that police resources are also being reduced and their numbers will be reduced in the future. And what happens when these oversight tasks grow? Against this background, I wonder very much why the government has left this particular issue to make Finland a model EU student country. The government's task is to promote Finnish work. On the contrary, this government solution pushes down Finnish work. They're taking away a living from the truckers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u158	Mr President! There is indeed conflicting information on this issue, and there is a great deal of misinformation on this issue in transport. For example, the arguments that have now been made in the speech that, if I remember correctly now, this market is now fully open to foreign citizens are certainly not true. The second thing that is not true is that Denmark would be in the same situation as us. Indeed, the expert consultation was very thorough and it heard a lot of things that were not even possible to write in that report. Indeed, this overall picture came to the conclusion that this is the only alternative to this situation at the moment. So this regulation, which has been in force for years, is the basis for this cabotage operation, and it really determines that it is necessary to have the international transport from abroad to Finland, and that must be the transport document. After that, you can drive three transports within the EU country in question, in this case Finland, and the three transports are allowed to do so within seven days. In other words, three transports in seven days — that is exactly the same definition that is still in force at the moment. Representative Kymäläinen put forward those arguments that it is extremely difficult, almost impossible, to follow the salary of its worker, its driver. These arguments were, therefore, precisely in the current state of affairs. So it is already so unsurveillanceable today. In other words, although this was a good thing in the last period and it was done in good faith — although it was already known then that it was an EU regulation, and we went a little like a stick to try to get ice, that is to say, can we not do this because there are no national laws on top of the regulation, it was such a conscious risk — so it has now proved that this well-meaning law has not been controlled, so it is now precisely the case that more means are now needed for this control. There was a claim that there were no such means. Everyone in the committee knows that these means exist, and they have been considered, thought out, twisted and translated, and they will come up when they do. What has been written down here is this digital transport document — which was also heard very thoroughly — and the second is the resources and powers of the police and other authorities in general to bring it up. In any case, I also understand the opposition, which has raised this objection here, because the information that has been provided in the expert consultation is indeed contradictory and there are many conclusions to be drawn from it, but the authors and authors of these contradictory information did not have the overall picture of the committee. As a result of this overall picture, when you take all those things into consideration and look at them, there really is no alternative here but this situation, which is what it is now. Again, I would like to emphasise one thing in this report. In other words, the purchaser is subject to an obligation to clarify the legality of the transport — the subscriber is therefore subject to an obligation to make known. If the subscriber orders transport from a foreign truck, he must therefore in practice determine whether he is entitled to intra-country cabotage. In other words, the transport undertaking — or, in practice, this truck, which is here — must in practice present a transport document for the international carriage which comes from it and whether it still has the opportunity to drive the three scheduled transport operations during the seven days in question, and all of them must be included. I know it may be difficult to monitor this, but this is the responsibility of that subscriber. And if the subscriber is not sure whether a foreign company is entitled to cabotage transport, then, of course, it may result in sanctions. It will be able to control this pattern if you want — remember that the subscriber is liable. But, indeed, on the basis of this overall picture, which of these complex, contradictory and in part even contested data has been formed, this is now the only right option in the interests of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u159	Madam President! This debate, which is taking place in this Chamber, must be followed up by a number of people who make their living directly or indirectly from the transport sector and their families, and it is interesting to hear these opinions. When this same issue was discussed in the referral debate, Mr Pakkanen said at the time: "Can there be an opportunity to postpone this decision and listen to the Commission's approach and then proceed accordingly? At least I myself would think that I would defend the Finnish transport operator and transport worker as long as it is possible by legal means. And I would also like to stress that there is once again a difficulty in controlling it. How do we guarantee that these drivers will then be according to the Finnish wage level? I'm sure we can all honestly admit that it certainly isn't when it's done. That is what it is all about, and this is a very big question' — and so on. It is interesting, as far as Mr Pakkanen is concerned, that, once this matter has been dealt with, these questions have then come to an end, at least under this decision. As far as that national legislation is concerned, we now have a national regulation which also includes what is counted as a single cabotage operation: one unloading is a cabotage operation. There is no such definition in EU legislation as to what constitutes cabotage: you can unload the same truck ten times, or more, and you cannot check whether that truck is repacked with new goods and whether it is still unloaded. The police were reported here. Discontinuation of the mobile police was a mistake. Of course, the government can catch it and re-establish it. The government has the power to do this, but unfortunately the government is still reducing the number and resources of the police. I should also like to ask Mr Pakkanen, when he said here that it was wrong to say that this special allocation for combating the shadow economy has disappeared, whether the Regional State Administrative Agency has given us incorrect information in this committee hearing. They say: "From the beginning of 2016, the special allocation for combating the shadow economy disappeared, so foreign surveillance resources, at least in Eastern Finland, have had to be adjusted to the level of appropriations. In conclusion, therefore, there is virtually no control of cabotage companies in Eastern Finland at all." The administrative penalty fee was raised here and the administrative penalty fee must not discriminate against anyone in the EU or the EEA. In Finland, the administrative penalty fee is limited in the case of parking errors and overload charges. When you talk about an administrative penalty payment, so that at the border this can be viewed, then it needs a national bill, that this also affects Finns in the same way. At the moment, that's not possible. Let us look forward to that bill and then support it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u162	Mr President! Mr Kymäläinen raised the issue of the fight against the shadow economy and its budget. However, this is the government's proposal, and last November the government has allocated EUR 6.4 million in the fight against the shadow economy, so that in my opinion, yes. Then the debate has also raised this monitoring of labour force and wages. However, there is a question of the dismantling provisions in the proposal, and these dismantling rules have not in any way helped to monitor the payment of wages and will not help, nor will it be any easier in this proposal, because, among other things, this payment of wages has been one of the challenges in this supervision. But that is not what this is about, but what we are now doing is dismantling the rules of unloading: unloading the cargo, how it is to be defined. And yes, there is a clear error in determining the cargo. Every person in the transport industry understands that if a part of the load is unloaded, the load will not end there but will continue. That load is only empty when you're on stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u163	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u164	Mr President! The concern expressed in the transport sector about this change in legislation must be understood, and our main task is to ensure that there is equal competition in Finland for the whole transport sector. The opposition's arguments, in which the government is accused of acting against Finnish work and entrepreneurship, will certainly be recognized as untrue outside this hall in the opposition. The debate has become quite disproportionate. Let us remember these figures, which have not yet been mentioned in this debate: Customs estimates that cabotage represents an estimated 1% of all transports, of which a quarter is illegal cabotage. Eurostat then estimated that the share of all transports in Finland was 0.4 per cent. It is recalled that the reform applies only to drivers from other EU countries, and they too will be able to carry out only three transport operations within a week, after which they will have to leave the country, but these transport operations still cannot be handled by non-EU drivers. There are also excellent features in the presentation. For example, more rational planning of transport will be facilitated, which means cost-effectiveness and lower prices, and energy will also be saved. This legislation also works the opposite way, and it works well for the Finnish transport sector, as has already been heard today: Finnish drivers in other EU countries carry much more than drivers from other countries in Finland. Does the opposition have any objections to this? As stated in the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications, on the basis of such an in-depth analysis, the committee considers that the legislative solution envisaged in the proposal is in practice the only and inevitable option in the current situation. That is why I am sure this Chamber will be talking from a slightly different perspective than it was a few months ago before this in-depth study. As we are all well aware in this Chamber, this issue was delayed during the last period and last spring the Commission threatened to refer it to the Court of Justice. In other words, the opposition parties would have taken this to the EU Court of Justice, which would have been forced into force by a decision that would have been expected, however, by the same legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u165	Mr President! Although the actions of the opposition representatives in the Chamber during the last parliamentary term were such that the mobile police were abolished, it has still been possible to carry out an increasing number of controls on the road. According to a report from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, police surveillance efforts have increased in 2015 and, as a result, the number of suspected arrests in 2015 has increased by up to 10%. That said, it has been possible to invest in control, but of course this control is a matter of concern. In addition to sanctions: the Ministry of Transport and Communications has put forward a proposal to move from fines to administrative sanctions, i.e. to allow Customs and the police to stop the car on the road and also to ensure that it is impossible to leave the country until these administrative consequences have been paid. And I think this is where we should also take the legislation to ensure that these administrative sanctions are paid in that country before we can get out of here with the cargo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u166	Mr President! Mr Vehkäperä well described this situation of police control today, which is reasonably satisfied. It is true that monitoring is a problem in this case of cabotage, for example, if we look at that situation of pay. However, it is a good thing that the speeches here give the right information when reference is made, among other things, to the number of policemen. At the moment, there are probably some 7300 police officers in Finland, and at least it has not come to my attention that the government is drastically reducing their numbers, but is working hard to improve the police budget and keep the number of police officers at a sufficiently safe level. Other figures were presented here as the government’s presentation of the number of police officers. The second point I would like to make is that when we talk about the transport of a foreign country, we are not talking about this cabotage issue, but about the transport within the EU and the EEA. The transport of a foreign country includes Russian trucks, which, however, is clearly the majority on the Finnish highways when foreign trucks are involved. We need to be precise about these regulations and we are talking about foreign lorries moving within the EU and the EEA countries. That is what this cabotage regulation has to do with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u167	Mr President! I believe that, in this Chamber, all of us who are discussing this issue must know that we are now giving up national legislation on cabotage. When you listen to these speeches from the government parties here, you are somehow able to think nicely that this would not make it possible for a larger truck race on Finnish roads. I can tell you that this is not the view of the opposition, but the view of a large number of people in the transport sector is that they do not believe in that beautiful idea. They have even received a very direct message that a separate ruling should be sought from the EU Court of Justice on this matter. The chairman of the committee then stated, in his second speech, that Denmark is in a different situation than we are Finns. I personally understand that they are in a different situation because they have decided to look at the cards with this issue at the end, but I hope that you, Mr Jalonen, will tell me what you meant by that different situation in relation to the situation in Denmark. Then, in this debate today, there has also been the fact that the legislation already in place cannot be enforced in relation to cabotage. Nor am I reasonably satisfied with this control, as I think Mr Pakkanen was in some way just now. Somehow there comes such a strange state that if it is, even now, when the law cannot be enforced, there are not enough resources, yet some kind of reason to allow wider illegal cabotage in our country. Even though I don't want to misunderstand anyone's speech, here's also a feeling like this. Then, on the other hand, as far as police resources are concerned, I have understood that this government is making decisions — I do not know whether this has also been made and changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u168	Mr President! It has not come to my attention that the government is reducing the number of police officers to 6,500. They're talking about illegal cabotage. We have not said anything about illegal traffic in the government's proposal. Of course, all illegal traffic must be banned if there is anything illegal. Among other things, it was said here that if any illegality arises, Finland will not be punished. Of course, road traffic in Finland is punished for illegal speeding, and if there are loading errors, if there are obligations at driving time, they are always punished in Finland. And in no way does this dismantling provision, which is what we are talking about, allow for a wider truck race. It's an extraordinary view of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u169	Mr President! There is no penalty in Finland if you are caught with illegal cabotage. We do not have one, although Mr Pakkanen here is trying to say how beautiful it is. Speeds, parking errors, overweight payments are a completely different matter — when it comes to sanctions — than if illegal cabotage is caught.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u170	Chairman of the committee, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u171	At this point, I would like to see a representative. It is difficult to explain how this attitude towards illegal cabotage will change with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u172	However, Mr Myllykoski has the floor. No reply has been requested.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u173	Mr President! After the speeches by Mr Löhte and Mr Pakkanen, I would like to speak for two minutes on the floor for a moment of silence, but I will not do that when I want to speak. In my opinion, it is inconsolable to want to highlight what can then be done to get things under control. I would have been very pleased that this in principle enables and secures opportunities for a Finnish operator so that other countries in the EU will not react if Finland is a different young person. But on the other hand, these administrative charges — why did we go ahead and do this first and then have the desired list? With the EU in the process of reforming its regulations, why on earth do we need to go on and on about this now? When Mr Jalone, as chairman of the committee, sought an answer from Mr Kymäläinen, I would like to ask — when the person asking questions does not get lost and the matter is so foreign to me — the chairman of the committee: when you said that the subscriber has the responsibility, what are the consequences if the subscriber has not determined whether this transport company has the right to cabotage, what are the sanctions? This is just the right question right now, whose answer I want in a way to educate myself to hear from the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u174	Mr President! During the last term of the government, Finland made this cabotage regulation subject to such demolition restrictions when it should have intervened in the winter tyre issue, the transport document issue, vignette charges. The government of the last period was unable to do so, and these will now come before the committee next autumn and will be done. Let us hope that a decision can be reached on these too. I think that is a bit like hindsight: you were doing this national decision by yourself last season, which at the time secured Finnish transport, but it was not such a long-term solution when you already knew that this would not be good enough for the EU in the future, but that decision would have to be reversed in time. Now we're at the point of turning it around.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u175	Mr President! Briefly, what the previous governments have done is what they have done. I have confessed to the neighbour that there was sometimes a stoned greenhouse window broken, but that does not help now when we want to cut this potential, perhaps even an explosive issue, as the operators in the sector have said. I understand that transport companies in their own statements want to secure their own livelihood. It is quite natural, and of course the workers are also doing this, but I find it frustrating to hear why not then and then. I hope that I will not often succumb to the same phrase, that what was done when Kekkonen was President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, there are 4 to 5 representatives here who are asking for answers at the same time as the same people have actually been asked to speak. That is why I shall now proceed to the actual speeches on the list. — Mr Jalonen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u177	Mr President! The answer to Mrs Myllykoski: In other words, the report states that ‘Article 5a of the Commercial Goods Act provides for the obligation of the subscriber to declare the legality of the transport’. This was raised in the expert hearings, but the actual sanctions were not discussed, what would become of the subscriber if he violated this act — it is not an essential issue in this respect. But there you will find the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u180	Mr President! I do, however, regard Mr Jalos and Mr Kosonen's argument that, in those expert hearings, selective consultation has been carried out, inappropriate and as if untrue information had been collected from the opposition. This is the kind of argument I've never heard in this courtroom before. It must be said that, as if you were sitting on such a stone of wise men in the government, and you were the only ones capable of forming an objective and only correct view of this matter. You can say that these are not such black and white questions. According to industry operators, this will mean the loss of thousands, even tens of thousands, of jobs and the loss of hundreds of millions of tax revenues. Are you also saying that these players in this sector are wrong and false in this regard? We are talking about the liberalisation of foreign truck traffic. There will be two changes that undermine the position of Finnish companies and workers: the impairment of cabotage and the posting of workers directive. This is a government solution that drives down Finnish work. And as the representative next door, Myllykoski, said, this is a black day for truckers and could also be a quiet moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u181	Mr President! I would also like to join in commenting on Mr Kosonen when you raised these statistics here and talked about this in-depth analysis and how these statistics have been obtained. At the very beginning of this whole draft report by our committee was read out here, and this is what the draft report of the committee has already said: 'It is difficult to obtain reliable information in Finland on the amount of cabotage, and there are clearly different views in the expert hearings on this. It is particularly difficult to obtain information on the actual amount of illegal cabotage." This is a comment for Mr Kosonen — not so unambiguous about this statistics. In my opinion, Mr Jalonen sent a very strong message to both Finnish transport entrepreneurs and workers' organisations: both SKAL and the ACP are, therefore, speakers or messengers of these rumours and misinterpretations, because these messages, which have been here, have been a strong concern for both employers and workers. You said that this was the only way we were going to go down the road to the EU and, in Finland, we are going to expand this definition of cabotage and dismantle the national criteria in an incomplete situation. In that referral debate, Minister Berner said: "This has been the EU-MINVA policy, and preparation is always the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It remains for the Minister of Sectors to implement the decision taken at EU-MINVA in June. In my own hands, it is not the decision to put this aside, but Parliament has its own responsibility and its own opportunity. The Government has its own possibilities, but so does the Parliament". Minister Berner goes on to say: "And this is, of course, the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the risk, which is the scenario, which is the overall picture of EU policy in which Finland is wanted to be, where it wants to be tough, where it wants to be less strict. Every minister in the sector is trying to defend his or her own until the end, but that last line on Finland's position is made the last word of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the large committee". That is quite clear from Minister Berner: he says that we in Parliament have every opportunity not to do so. And now that this proposal, which you have very much defended here, will be put to the vote in this Chamber, then, at the time of the vote, you will each have the opportunity to think about what you are doing or not doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u182	Mr President! However, I believe that this definition of cabotage clarifies this situation in such a way that Finnish transport companies both in Finland and in Europe drive and, on the contrary, Europeans in Finland operate under the same rules. I would also like to read this, which is precisely what this is all about, that under the regulation on international road transport cabotage, the internal driving of another country, is limited to three transports within seven days after the vehicle has arrived in Finland in international transport. I think this is a clear rule, and with this system, when Finnish entrepreneurs go to Germany to drive and the Germans come to drive to Finland, then we go to Finland with fair rules of play and competition works openly, as part of the free movement of the EU workforce — or does the opposition want a big change in this question of principle so as not to move freely? Here we go with the same rules of the game, and this is the EU. Whether it's good or not, we're gonna be there now and we're gonna go by the rules of the game. I do not believe that any explosion in the transport of the grey economy or illegal cabotage will take place after the entry into force of this provision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u183	Mr President! It must be said to Mr Pakkanen that the opposition certainly does not want to be regulated to pay any kind of salary here. Of course, it is necessary to recall the matter of posted workers, which the government has just rejected from the transport sector. — — — — As far as transport is concerned, you rejected the fact that it would be possible to control the pay of posted workers in the same way as in other sectors, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u186	Mr President! It is good to hear that there is also support for sensible proposals in the opposition. Mr Ojala-Niemelä, I see you have not listened to this debate terribly carefully. You said such things about posted workers and these cabotage issues, which have already been heard on several occasions and which are clearly read in the committee's report. I urge attention. And I am sorry, Mr Taimela did not come before to answer about that situation in Denmark. It has been heard in the committee's hearing that the legal situation in Denmark, the degree of progress in its challenge, is different from that in Finland, and these have, of course, all come up in the expert consultation. So, as I said, not everyone has been able to write in that report, and that is the overall picture. And on the overall picture, Mr Kymäläinen: you will have noticed this point in that report, which, I will read it again, reads: 'Conclusions. On the basis of an in-depth report from the Committee on Transport and Communications, the committee considers that the legislative solution envisaged in the proposal is in practice the only and inevitable option in the current situation." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u187	Mr President! It is interesting to hear that the opposition is going to the Court of Justice of the European Union to defend Finland's interests in this situation, which we have been hearing from many years ago. Finnish legislation is against the rules, and we no longer have the chance to kick against this, But the fact that we are driving Finnish work down is not true. Do you not see the possibility that Finnish transport companies will also be better able to drive cabotage in the EU and the EEA? Even at the moment, when the tonne-kilometres of domestic hauliers have tripled as far as we are concerned, this is an opportunity for Finnish hauliers to earn their bread even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u188	Mr President! I'll keep it short. — I do not think that a Finnish transport entrepreneur with an employee working on Finnish working conditions can take over the Polish market very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u189	Mr President! To Mrs Vehkaperä, the representative, this reference to this European Court of Justice certainly came from my speech. In my speech, I put it to the effect that there has even been a direct signal from the operators in the sector that a ruling should be sought from the European Court of Justice on this matter. And now you used the expression that it can be true that this is the view of the opposition. That is what we already thought in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u190	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Ojala-Niemela left the Chamber, but he could really read my speech then in the Minutes that I said — not at all the things he said. Representative for Kymäläinen: I really did use the figures for Customs and Eurostat, and then you had the different figures you used. But I would say here that one such certainly revised figure is that in 2015 Customs carried out a total of 86,000 road safety-oriented inspections, which also verified traffic permits, and this number had 24 illegal cabotage suspicions — that is to say, perhaps in some proportions, too. And Mr Kymäläinen indeed appealed to this vote. There, of course, everyone can do what they want or what they have. We really have the opportunity to take this to the European Court of Justice, which the opposition here hopes for. In other words, if I remind you of this, the European Commission considers these stricter provisions of the national EU regulation to be contrary to the provisions of the European Union and is therefore suing the Finnish Court of Justice if we do not remove these own definitions. This has really pushed us into this situation that we are going to act on the definitions of this free competition, as is thought to be the case in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u191	It would look like a reply to Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, here I heard Mr Myllykoski say that this is a world record of misunderstandings or a world record of misunderstanding. That is probably the case in that regard, if I understood that speech correctly just now, that Mr Kosonen said that we can freely vote in this Chamber either in favour of this government' s proposal or as an alternative to taking it to the European Court of Justice. That is certainly not what the opposition has said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u195	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 9/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u196	Mr President! This is therefore a committee report on the proposal to amend the law on private security services. This proposal proposes to amend the law on private security services, which will enter into force at the beginning of 17 C.E. The amendments concern the streamlining of licensing processes for private security services and a number of technical changes. The legislation on private security services will be concentrated in a single law, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2017, and the same law, which will include provisions on security movements, law enforcement and security protection. After a transitional period, the law enforcement activity becomes a business activity subject to authorisation, with some exceptions, and some aspects of the security protection activity become subject to authorisation. The security business will remain a licensed business, all of which will be covered by a single joint security business permit. The aim of the present proposal is to simplify, make more flexible and clarify the provisions relating to the acceptance of the guardian, the guardian and the guardian, and to supplement and clarify this law, which will enter into force from the beginning of 2017. The proposed changes are mainly of a technical nature. It is proposed that authorisation procedures for the approval of a guardian, a guardian and a guardian are reduced with regard to the approval authority. So even at the moment, you can submit an application to another police department, but only the police department of the applicant’s municipality of residence accepts it. According to the proposal, any police department can in future act as authorising and withdrawing authority. The committee believes that this will improve the efficiency of the authorities' activities, make them more flexible and improve the levelling of the burden on the various police forces. The submission of an application must be made in person at the moment, but it will be possible to initiate this application electronically in the future, with the same aim of making this process more flexible, faster and more efficient. This is the same change in police licensing as the change in the passport procedure in the past. The committee is in favour of this increase in the possibility of e-services and, in that way, the allocation of police resources. However, it is considered important that the applicant may continue to be required to come to the police department personally if this is necessary for the specific reasons set out in the explanatory memorandum to the Government’s proposal. It is also pointed out that it is still possible to submit an application in person for the purpose of dealing with matters. Well, then, the government proposal proposes that some aspects of the regulation on the duties and areas of the guard be clarified. In other words, the proposed amendment allows the guard to perform his duties outside the security area, including in the case of a task supporting or otherwise related to a mission in the security area. An example of this has been seen in the service of the business license holder as being the duty of a security guard performing emergency services, which means that the guard is not necessarily in the security area but conveys information about the target’s burglar alarm to the security guard in the security area. The tasks of the proposed amendment are linked to the area of security, which the committee considers necessary to ensure that the new wording does not lead to unnecessarily extensive application. Finally, it is proposed to clarify the powers to adopt a regulation. In addition, the police government may adopt more specific provisions laid down in the law and regulations on the curricula, educational content and hours-to-hour distribution of education provided for by the law. The committee supports the proposal and considers it necessary and appropriate, and this report by the Administrative Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u197	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 10/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u198	Mr President! This so-called 'ID Card Act' introduces a number of substantive changes and contains detailed procedural provisions, since this is a document proving identity and right of travel. The ID card contains a strong electronic identification tool for citizens, which, in part, requires detailed regulation. The aim is to bring the identity card law and the identity card procedure into line with social developments in the area of e-services, i.e. to enable the electronic filing of an application for an identity card and also, in a given situation, to apply for an identity card electronically without personal contact with the authority, as is currently the case with the passport procedure. In other words, it is also intended to simplify and speed up the procedure by no longer including health insurance information on the ID card. This improves customer service and official work. This procedure is largely in line with the passport procedure, both in law and in practice. Documents shall be issued in a similar procedure and for the same purpose. In other words, this direct delivery and the electronic procedure are already in place. The committee considers it appropriate that the procedures for identity cards and passports should also be as similar as possible with regard to e-services and the delivery of these cards, and good experience has been gained with this online application of the passport, e-services. The law would reduce police licensing, improve customer service, and the committee considers the proposed changes to be a consistent extension of the procedure adopted in the passport procedure. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law with the following comments and a few amendments: First of all, about e-business and making it easier. This is done in such a way that, if the applicant has been issued a passport or identity card within the six years preceding the application for an identity card and has made personal contact at that time, he or she may be granted an identity card in a reduced procedure without the applicant’s dealings with the authority. In addition, a person over 12 years of age is required to issue a previous identity card or passport and to have an autographed sample taken for a passport or identity card and the surname or first name has not changed. When applying for an identity card, the lighter procedure is slightly broader than the passport procedure because the identity card has no fingerprints. Strong electronic identification is a prerequisite for the use of the streamlined procedure. The tools include online banking credentials provided by banks, a civil certificate from the Population Register Centre and mobile certificates from telecommunications companies, which are widely accepted in various public services. However, it has emerged from the expert hearings that not all applicants for an identity card have the opportunity or competence to do business electronically, and it is therefore important that there is still the possibility of personal contact. According to the proposal, the completed identity card will be delivered directly from the identity card manufacturer in the form of a registered letter or similar consignment to the applicant, and the card will be collected from the private service provider’s office, such as the passport procedure as from April 2013. The committee considers this to be a very positive development, but this overall benefit can probably only be assessed once the model has been in use for a longer time. The direct delivery of identity cards requires that provisions corresponding to the Passport Act be included in the law on the transfer to private service providers of a task considered to be a public administrative function and that this is strictly regulated by law. The starting point is that identity cards are delivered via a service provider approved by the Police Government, and this regulation is therefore also in line with this Passport Act. The police government must ensure that training, guidance and security arrangements are invested both in the authorities and in the private service provider, thus providing uniform practices. Well, then, the identification of the applicant and the identity card of a foreigner. In other words, the committee considers it important that the new law provides for the identification of the applicant and the verification of the identity of the applicant to be more precise, and then it is stated from the identity card of a foreign person that it is necessary to clarify the current provisions on a foreign identity card, since the issue of a foreign identity card is subject to the condition that the applicant has a valid residence permit or residence card or the applicant's right of residence is registered. The applicant must have a municipality of residence in Finland and the data are required to be registered in the Population Information System. The aim has been to contribute to the integration of foreigners, as the identity card can be used to identify people in different situations, for example, and to facilitate the provision of services to foreigners residing in Finland. The committee has also been informed that such a reform has recently taken place in Sweden and, according to the committee's information, there have been no issues that call into question the reliability of the system, since it is still an identity card issued by the police and the identity of the applicant has been examined in a number of ways. The delegations will then be brief. Under the current law, only the police department can receive applications for an identity card, but an amendment is made to this effect that a Finnish citizen residing abroad may in future apply for an identity card from the Finnish Embassy, from the consulate headed by the sent official or from another diplomatic mission where passports are issued and where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has authorised the issuing of identity cards. In other words, foreign diplomatic missions will be able to issue identity cards in addition to the passport, which will then make it easier for Finns abroad to visit for an identity card. However, according to the report received by the committee, e-services are not yet possible when this law comes into force. Specific provisions on refusal of an identity card will be included in the law. An identity card may be used as a travel document, although it may also be issued in certain circumstances without the right to travel. And so in the future, the ID card will still contain this citizens' certificate. This committee's report is also unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u199	Mr President! This government proposal is excellent and will continue to dismantle standards and red tape in a good way. We know well and remember well what it has been like to sit there at police stations while waiting and applying when there is waiting for these cards and passports. As far as passport is concerned, we have already reached this stage, where this government proposal will take the application for identity cards as well. It makes our daily lives so much easier in many ways. Although this is a small matter, it is an important matter. However, I would like to take a few things into consideration for further thought: First of all, for those who do not have access to electronic services, for example, who do not have bank identifiers — and now I am sure young people are such a group or, for example, immigrants — this opportunity for personal services is excellent. But it would be important to think about how we could make it easier for these electronic transactions too, whether it would be easier to get bank IDs in some way. The second point that I drew attention to here is that this law still provides an identity card for only five years. However, I would see the need for that identity card to be valid for ten years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u200	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 6/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u201	Mr President! This bill, too, is the same bureaucracy that the government is pushing for, and this will enable universities to work together in education, in particular in language teaching, and to make effective use of it. First of all, this eliminates overlaps and enables good cooperation between universities of applied sciences and universities. Secondly, this bill makes it possible to teach rare languages and in that way make the best use of these resources. And thirdly, there are common e-learning materials, and then a larger number will be able to make use of them. It should be noted that sectoral language studies remain separate, i.e. this bill does not undermine competence in that respect. In other words, this does not have an impact on competence objectives or sectoral requirements, but this bill will make it easier for universities and universities to cooperate better in such general language studies and thus better use of our education funding and resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u202	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 10/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-15-ps-69.u203	Mr President! Anneli Jäätteenmäki, our European Parliamentarian, in April showed the great red tape burden of agriculture in Brussels with the 25-metre-long annual number of forms filled out by farmers. It is a large number, and it has been noted and the studies have shown that, unfortunately, farmers' daily lives are largely filled out by filling in, following and around the forms. This is a lot about political will, how we treat farmers and what kind of life we give them, the burden of work. This government proposal specifically amends the Chemicals Act in such a way that a farmer who has already completed the examination required by the Plant Protection Products Act no longer needs to acquire a professional pest control qualification. It is worth noting, however, that these farmers who have completed a plant protection product certificate will be released here, and this is indeed necessary and appropriate, as the Committee also states in its opinion. At present, farmers are not allowed to use these professional rodenticides, which are also at issue here. So now it is possible, but it must be borne in mind that this is a very small number of farmers who are going to use it, in any case it is small. These pesticides, found in agricultural shops, are usually used and used by all other gardeners.
