ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 5 October 2016. In the debate, Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Hanna Sarkkinen, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u3	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a referral debate for a bill on electricity payment options for consumers. Electricity is a significant expense item for many households, especially in electricity-heated houses. In a country such as Finland, billing based on current consumption varies significantly, according to seasons and temperatures, even by several hundred euros. For some electricity users, this is not a problem, but it is. Highly variable electricity bills make it difficult for many households to plan their own economy and anticipate future costs considerably. The main problems are the low-income households in particular, as electricity bills in the summer and winter months can vary significantly. Many consumers would introduce a flat-rate bill if such an option were available. In the past, electricity companies were more generally offering an equal billing option, which facilitated the situation of households by balancing the electricity bill throughout the year. Now, as hourly metering equipment becomes more common, electricity companies have largely abandoned the issue of equal billing and moved on to real-use billing despite the wishes of many customers. The EU's Third Internal Market Directive on Electricity adopted in 2009 requires the provision of different payment methods to consumers. However, it has become a practice in Finland that electricity companies still do not offer an equal billing option in accordance with the spirit of the law and despite the needs of many customers, charge a separate processing fee for the flat bill or even, as it stands, actively remove them from their service selections. In this respect, the electricity market law has remained incomplete and now needs to be supplemented in order to provide consumers with better alternatives to the planning of their own economy. There is a need for mandatory legislation, and that is what I am proposing here. In order to reflect the original purpose of the payment policy, the Electricity Market Act must be amended in the spirit of the 2013 Government proposal HE 20/2013. Article 57 of the Electricity Market Act on billing by a distribution system operator in a distribution system and Article 69 of the Act on retail invoicing must include a provision obliging consumers to offer different payment options. These payment options should include both billing based on consumption according to the billing period and an option based on estimated estimated annual electricity consumption based on equal instalments of payments, a so-called flat-rate invoice. Even if the consumer chooses to charge the spot, the billing should still be based on the customer's recorded readings and must be entitled to access his own electricity consumption data. Consumption figures should be made at least once a year to equalise the actual consumption of the customer. I do not believe that an additional service fee should be charged for the invoicing of the lot or for other forms of payment. The Network Manager would have the right to change the amount of the equal amount charged to the customer in the event of changes in pricing or in the estimated annual consumption of the customer. The proposed provision would not affect the type of distribution and measurement service product the customer would use. A customer who has chosen a method of payment based on equal instalments could also be covered by various services. Mr President! Households must have the right to choose between a flat-rate billing based on their own needs and a bill based on real consumption. The electricity market must be consumer-friendly and the legislator must protect the rights of vulnerable consumers. Mr President, that is what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u6	Mr President! The periodicity of electricity bills is an important issue for the ordinary consumer, and Mrs Kaikonen, in her initiative, intervenes in the right way. On the other hand, the price of electricity, which is the price of electricity, is also important for the consumer. Then, as a general rule, the payer of the electricity bill is also a taxpayer, and as a taxpayer, I just draw attention to the fact that we are paying quite large wind power subsidies at the moment. Everyone agrees that they are overcompensating. The legislation adopted during the 2007 parliamentary term has proved to be extremely costly for the taxpayer, and this is actually the bill that ordinary households will pay. It does not even have the possibility of amortizing this bill; it comes in the form of taxation automatically. It has been calculated that this additional decrease in a very short period of time will generate subsidies of more than EUR 3 billion, that is a huge sum, and that it will have an impact on the electricity market so that it will distort the electricity market. Well, then I did draw attention to the fact that this initiative was commendable, it did not talk about this electricity price at all, but it did not interfere with another issue which has taken a rather important place in the discussions of recent days, and it is these bats that are clearly interfering with the power generation in the case of wind power plants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u7	Madam President! These Friday sessions are obviously interesting. My first response to Mr Heinäluoma's opening of the debate, which is not directly related to this initiative, but is close: this wind power tariff. After all, the problem was already discovered during the government negotiations that when there is a low electricity price, the price is expensive for society. That is why this support for wind power was immediately cut off, but it is obviously a constitutional question that, of course, it is quite difficult to remove it from those who had already entered the quota for which the aid was offered in the past. We agree that this type of tariff will certainly not be forthcoming in the future, but we can return to these discussions when we go through the energy and climate strategy and next year's government's proposals on energy. On the other hand, this price of electricity is a problem with the monopolistic nature of the transmission price. I think we should consider the possibility of small-scale construction of electricity distribution networks, such as local distribution networks. It might be relevant in some area. But for the actual flat-rate billing, which was in this motion: I think that would be quite reasonable. This is still how many electricity companies operate, but I know again many electricity companies that have dismantled this very good practice. And the point raised by Mr Heinonen that this compensation could be made even a few times a year would certainly alleviate the problems that, admittedly, some electricity companies have experienced if the billing item has been overestimated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u8	Madam President! All Finnish animals, including bats, are dear and important to the Finns, but this initiative is probably related to other issues, and so I will not comment further on the bat issue raised by Mrs Heinäluoma. The cost of housing has risen much faster than people's wages, which means that purchasing power is weakening as a result of housing and housing costs. It is therefore well founded that there should be a debate on the cost of energy in general. However, this initiative is not directly related to price developments, but is generally consumer-friendly. It would help households plan their expenses. I therefore support this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u9	Madam President! I am very pleased to hear that the Finns of Finland care about animals. It's an important observation. But what the speaker has just said was, of course, the price of living, and it is influenced by electricity as well as heating and real estate taxes, a complex issue. That is why, perhaps in this debate, I would like to extend this perspective to the price of living and to what the government is currently doing. Now, these taxes on heating fuels are rising, the property tax is rising, and all of these have a devastating effect on the very cost of living for ordinary people. And we know that today, when the government wants to cut off many subsidies, wages, all this, of course, this particular cost of living is also an essential factor in the lives of every family. That is why I would like to see a certain line of amendment in this respect too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u10	Mr President! However, with this subject being slightly broadened, I would like to see the issue of electricity kept to itself and precisely what this price of electricity is made up of. Perhaps even more important for the ordinary citizen than those billing items is precisely where the price of electricity comes from. As we all know, certain problems have arisen from the fact that, unfortunately, during the last period and earlier, this transition to a private monopoly on electricity transmission was prepared, and this is particularly significant in that northern Finland. At the moment, two thirds of our electricity bill consists of electricity transmission. When this kind of law was made that now keeps these investments then made for electricity transmission security, so this has led to our basic contribution increasing all the time, people can not even use their own electricity consumption to influence its own electricity bill. This is an untenable situation, and this situation is actually expanding to other regions if we do not intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u11	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u12	Mr President! This point raised by Mrs Kaikkonen is very important. In that way, it has to do with the price of electricity, and also with these forms of production, that we have seen more and more forms of electricity generation that are subject to great fluctuations. For example, every wind power plant would need as if it had a controlling power alongside it, and now a lot of it is bought in other Nordic countries, but the cables wink red with hard frosts. In that sense, we will probably continue to expect large fluctuations in electricity prices, for example, for the reasons mentioned by Mr Heinäluoma, when wind power subsidies and increasing wind power, can be said to have confused the market, because then, in a sense, there will be less of the power available during peak periods. In that sense, I believe that wind power is central to this issue. But, Mr President, in this spirit, it must also be linked to the questioners as regards these bats: once the Finns of Peru have previously been rehabilitated by the union squirrels, you might say, even as opponents, then it will inevitably occur to you that when the unemployed are cut off, the pensioners are cut off, the veterans are cut off in the year of independence, the gas tax is increased, then, when the debate gets awkward, it is said that there is an explosive bat out there. So, of course, this change of direction in the protection of small mammals raises questions. The welfare of bats is also important, but it would also be good to have a little more light in this debate on how to protect these explosive bats, especially in the already existing wind power areas. It would be interesting to hear views on this and whether, for example, the Finns of Peru are going to bring an initiative from this to the parliament or whether this issue is going to be brought to the attention of a future spending limits debate or a mid-term debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u13	Madam President! I'm not going to join this ever-growing team of bat men.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u16	Mr President! I, too, thought to focus on this matter in itself, which Mrs Kaikkonen has rightly pointed out. Actually, I'm going to start by saying, "Why did they give up even billing in the past?" Which was the reason. Well, it was to influence the consumer's behaviour so that the consumer is able to monitor each month, for example, how much he saves in comparison to the previous month, and this in itself has been a good objective. Now, on a flat bill, this would only be visible every year. In other words, I can see this more widely even as an educational but at the same time as a big thing for society. Of course, the other aspect is also for energy companies, even municipal owners, from which municipalities always remember to take their dividends, and to remember how the cashiers there are enough. There has also been such an economic aspect of local government, perhaps. All in all, I support this initiative, but we must remember that in this monthly monitoring, what we all want, namely to save energy, must continue to be a priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u17	Mr President! To continue with this theme, this flat-rate billing and the related initiative is also good and important. But when it is said that in the past it was given up because customers and electricity users could monitor their own consumption and influence their own habits, that electricity consumption would be lower and billing lower, in fact this current electricity transmission law is directed precisely at unnecessary investments, because the law is forcing electricity transmission companies now, especially in the sparsely populated area, to invest in it and to do land cabling, which is expensive compared to the maintenance of existing air cables. This concern has come very strongly even from the companies themselves, that unnecessary work is now being done there. They have to pass it on to prices at the moment, and basic payments are constantly shifting. In other words, in practice, people will no longer be able to influence the electricity bill, which is on their own account, because basic charges are being transferred. This has also come from the electricity transmission companies themselves as a message that we are moving on to this. This is no longer a problem for sparsely populated regions in the future, but will be passed on to all other regions in the longer term. Indeed, the current law also leads to the fact that, when electricity transmission companies have a certain margin, what they are looking for in their own activities also for these investments — when their income margin is determined by investment — they calculate how much margin they can take at these prices, and this is actually what leads to constant price increases. For example: The price of Kainuu has now been increased by 4% every year. First 4%, now we are raising 4%, and there is nothing we can do about it at the moment. And what changes should be sought here, legal changes to make, for example electricity transmission
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u18	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the participants in the debate for this enthusiastic reception, which this bill has produced. It's moving in a good wind. It was a good thing that Mr Skinner reminded us of this objective, why, in time, this billing based on real consumption has been introduced. That is in itself a good thing, and certainly, one can say, for most households perhaps the best model. I wouldn't be changing it myself. It is good to know what consumption is, and it may be easier to influence your own consumption. But when it has been seen that for some households this model is a problem, it is important that they, if they so wish, be able to take this equal bill, so that the electricity bill would be all year long, say, about three hundred euros every few months, of course, depending on the consumption and size of the house, instead of being one hundred dollars in summer and five hundred in winter, what it can be — these changes can be really big. So this is in the background. With regard to transfer prices, I agree with the problem raised here by Mr Jarva. Perhaps one might wonder if the transitional period could be extended a little further, which would then bring some relief to the pressure on distribution system companies and thus also to consumer prices — it would probably be worth considering. Perhaps it is good to consider whether there are other ways of still affecting transfer prices. I don't know what to say about this bat thing. My own expertise, Mr President, is not enough. On the other hand, one correction to Mr Lindtman's excellent speech when he said that the veterans were being cut off. If you look at it
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u21	Mr President! I took the floor when I thought I had to correct the wrong information, but it was then that Mr Kaikkonen admitted that it was really the case that these war veterans' brooches, which could be from 50 to 300 euros a month, would be cut in just the same year as 100 years after Finland's independence. As the Federation, for example, has said, it does raise questions symbolically. But I think it is an excellent thing and, frankly, I think it is a big news story, a big news story for this Friday, that the chairman of the largest parliamentary group states that it would be good for Parliament to be able to change the government's proposal here. I think it is important that, in the centenary of independence, we do not cut the breast of our war veterans. Although it is a matter of a few euros, it is an important symbolic issue. We will also make a noise on this issue. We're not gonna rest until we change this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u23	Mr President! These Friday sessions are of great benefit, as has just been said. Like Mr Lindtman, I thought it was very important for the chairman of the largest parliamentary group to point a little bit in the direction that the government could indeed withdraw this rather brutal cut into the index of the breast dishes specifically during the Finnish centenary year, and that is why I think it is important to take note of this speech, which has just been used here. We fully support this from the Social Democrats and we have been very concerned about these government values. Which means we have full support for this. The second point I would like to raise again is that the group chairman of the parliamentary party also spoke here about the cost of living. Of course, it would be important to draw attention to the fact that not only electricity but also heating costs, property taxes, everything else has an impact on this. There may be a lot of small outfits in the county.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u24	Now the time is up and let us return to this issue and to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u25	Madam President! Wind power also emerged in this debate. I am not going to take a stand on this tragic fate of bats in these contexts, but I must say that it is absolutely madness that a Finnish taxpayer pays an ever-increasing amount annually, mainly to foreign investors, for having wind power built for us with the support of taxpayers. As I recall, this year that amount is already about EUR 200 million. It is growing year by year, and we will end up with the amounts mentioned by Mr Heinäluoma during the 12-year period, i.e. EUR 2 to 3 billion. So the main benefits are mainly, I understand, foreign investors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u30	The committee meeting is about to start there, but let us take one more speech from that list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u31	Mr President! On this issue of wind power, I must say at least that I agree with Mr Zyskowicz here. Of course, these very oversized feed-in tariffs for wind power have now proved to be very expensive for taxpayers, at least afterwards. Well, now this quota has been closed, it is a very good thing for this government. Unfortunately, this interpretation of the Constitution on the protection of property has now made it difficult to cut back on this aid, but it is the right direction, and then, when these are due in 2030, I definitely believe that new feed-in tariffs should not be granted again. I would like to comment briefly on the Socialist comments on this treatment of veterans, although it is not directly related to this bill, but I would like to comment to the extent that this current government is very strongly supportive of the veterans of our wars. Among other things, they will receive more funding during the Jubilee year, 10 million additional funding for open services provided to the home of front veterans, and ensure that veterans who need home services receive all the support, and the government also calls on municipalities to actively communicate with veterans in the future. Unfortunately, at this point there are only about 22,000 veterans who have defended Finland in the wars. They would have had to receive this support in previous years, unfortunately the Social Democrats have not been able to do this in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-07-ps-97.u32	Now we are going a long way from this actual issue, and the meeting of the large committee is weighing on us. In other words, I would now like to call for those speeches if we want to continue this matter next week. Let's stop this trial this time.
