ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u2	The first question is asked by Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u3	Mr President! Yesterday was the black and sad day of industrial Finland, especially in Sotkamo, Tampere, Espoo and probably also Salo. I'm sure the government's decision on the plan to close the Sotkamo Terrafame mine didn't come as a surprise. I believe that the various options were carefully weighed. The time window for possible extension of the mine was left open until the end of 2016 if the anchor owner is found and other conditions are met. In all options, care for the environment is necessary — let the environment and work shake hands. The personnel of Winterfell have lived in uncertainty for a long time, but each of them is committed to promoting the work of the mine. These work heroes and their families should not be left alone now. People need to care and support in this situation. My question is this: we believe that the region of Kainuu needs a solid specific programme for growth, industry and employment and the related funding. What measures is the government taking here and now to promote replacement jobs and employment in the Kainuu region, especially if the mine has to be driven down?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u4	Madam President! Mr Ihalainen, thank you for your constructive approach to this difficult matter. This is certainly not easy. It was a hard day, that day yesterday, and of course it does not warm up those workers much, as I say to them, for example, but nevertheless: the state is prepared to deal with this restructuring change resulting from the closure of mining operations with the restructuring budget for Kainuu, EUR 5 million, and it supports the regional economy and employment in Kainuu. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, Kainuu Ely Centre and the Regional Council prepare a growth plan for the Kainuu region. This is the government's approach to both this Winterfell and this other thing, i.e. Microsoft, to expect ideas and ideas from the region, and not to go from here to tell us what to do. We listen, and then we try to find ways to intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u6	Mr President! Microsoft's decision to lay off 1,350 people turned the workers silent. We just can't afford to lose a lot of talent, not in Tampere or Espoo. They need to be taken care of for their employment and skills. These denunciation decisions also indicate the company in question and its treatment. It was not very fair to Finland, and not all promises were kept. The least that can be expected of them is that they support the employability of these people. But all of this raises a slightly broader question. Do these unfortunate, massive, at worst almost 3,000 people's layoffs give rise to a reassessment of the new direction also in government employment policy and how people are supported in the midst of unemployment in terms of income and security of change? A little new momentum is needed here, and I would like this to be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u7	Madam President! Here, too, Mr Ihalainen is quite right. Just as it seemed that unemployment, the increase in unemployment, is stabilising, then there will be these huge redundancies, and it will also be a cold blow to the measures that the government has taken. But I am still in favour of government measures, that we are looking for that competitiveness and growth through it. These are unfortunate adversities every time such huge redundancies occur, be they thousands of people or individuals. They are their own destiny for everyone, and they all need to be taken seriously. Of course we have to evaluate this. It must be remembered that Microsoft, despite all of this, has, however, carried the responsibility for society through, among other things, this Pathku programme, through which more than one hundred start-ups have been created. This, of course, creates some kind of hope for these people, because these people have knowledge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u8	Madam President! The government's decision to go out and prepare for the end of the Winterfell mine was the right one. It is not a happy decision, it is a sad decision, but it was the only right decision. Then you have to give praise to the government when it's in its place. The Winterfell mine has been the Kankkula mine. Money has been blamed and environmental issues have not been put right. We also need industrial jobs in Finland in the future and we also need jobs in mines, but Winterfell is an example that profitable business cannot be done if the environment is not taken care of. During Alasajo there are still jobs at the mine. This is not a once-in-a-lifetime blow, but it is now important that the government directs the funds to Kainuu, where there is already a difficult employment situation, so that it can immediately begin to build a bridge, that when jobs are reduced at the mine, then there will be
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u9	Mr President! In that I could not find the question, more was this kind of commentary. But I will not comment on whether this Winterfell, Terrafame was originally a good business or a bad business, that is not my job. My job is to take care of that employment, and of course the whole government is concerned about it. Kainuu is a challenging area because this kind of employed number loss of the area is a huge blow. The representative is quite right that there will also be a lot of work to be done during this phase of recession, but not, of course, in the proportions that it is now, if it were in production. Here is the gate that if there is an investor, then one might think that it would also have a future for mining, but this was yesterday's decision. As far as I can tell, this was a shutdown. It requires certain measures, but we are monitoring this situation and, together with the players in the region, we are trying to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u10	Madam President! I am not quite in a position to join these praises of Minister Lindström for Microsoft's small operational programmes. It is good to recall what the company promised in 2013: Finland will become a Microsoft Development Point, i.e. hub, it is not intended to relocate work but to develop work on the ground, we are a good corporate citizen in Finland, we invest in Finland. And the letter also mentioned that there are no significant plans to change the location of work in the world during integration. All these promises have now been betrayed, however, and one can say that this is the kind of social responsibility that this company has not borne and has not kept. Yesterday you said, Minister Lindström, that you are also going to apply for funding from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. Has it been calculated what kind of national contribution is needed when applying for funding there and, on the other hand, what kind of employment package is the government bringing in now in its additional budget? We now need employment appropriations, we need packages of measures for those who have been made redundant in both these regions and, possibly,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u11	Mr President! However, when I said that Microsoft was carrying that social responsibility, I did not mean that I would somehow have overstepped all the promises made. It's obvious that the disappointment was great, and it probably came from my face yesterday when I gave the interview. I don't know if it's going to be so much upbuilding that I'm going to start that attempt, so to speak, publicly barking with a hard hand. I am disappointed, very disappointed, at their decision and the promises made to Finnish workers, I say it out loud. Secondly, they have promised that they will assume this responsibility — this Microsoft Path programme. Of course, in relation to what has been promised, this is small, but it is better than nothing and much more than the many other companies taking responsibility. That's what I'm talking about. An application has immediately been sent to the Globalisation Fund. In just a few weeks, we will probably get a sign of how to deal with it. There were a few million people talking about Salo, and that is probably the case in this case as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u13	Mr President! Yesterday's news of Microsoft's redundancies must have been a shock to all of us, especially the workers who are being made redundant, their families and the cities from which workers are being cut off or out of business altogether. As a Tampere representative and chairman of the City Council, the end of Microsoft Mobile in Tampere is a big blow to the whole city. When we include Nokia's redundancies announced in April, we talk about the reduction of nearly a thousand jobs in Tampere. The unemployment rate in the city is currently alarmingly high, at over 18%, and it is clear that we also need state aid to resolve the situation. Mr President! So I ask the government: will the state support Tampere as well as other localities have been supported in a similar situation? I would also like to ask whether the government is finally prepared to increase the funding for employment management as a whole, because it has now been inadequate and the situation is disproportionate from the point of view of unemployed people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u14	Mr President! Of course, this concern is great in Tampere, Espoo and to some extent also in Salo — but especially in Tampere and Espoo. Of course, we are considering the ways in which we can respond to this need. It must be remembered here that these people have a huge amount of knowledge, and it is of course worth taking advantage of this knowledge now and seeing how these people can then be brought into new careers by means of conversion training. As I said there, Microsoft's own program is in this big role, the fact that they then offer this package, that you could even start thinking about that entrepreneurship. Then today I have discussed with Minister Mäntylä the fact that, in the social and health field, there will probably be more and more people wanting to have these experts there, including these digital experts, and that is all we have been thinking about, of course. There is a certain amount of money on the TEM side, but these larger financial issues will then be addressed to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u15	Mr President! Yes, yesterday was indeed a hard blow to Kainuu, it cannot be over and around. Now in many families There is uncertainty in the Kainuu region at the end of this transition period: will the Talvivaara-Terrafame mine be driven down completely, what does that mean for the economy and employment in the Kainuu region? There are about a thousand people working in the area, and it is clear that, in relation to Kainuu, it is a very hard and violent blow. Of course, work is also needed to repair environmental damage, and the funding of this work must also be secured, and those jobs must be secured. The people of Kainuu are tough and hard-working, but not only can we survive with tenacity, but we now need a little longer than the government. We have not now received an answer, Mr Lindström, to Mr Marin's question as to whether you are now going to change your employment policy. Will you change the size of the employment budget so that the employment shocks caused by Winterfell and Terrafame on the one hand and Microsoft on the other can be properly answered?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u16	Madam President! We are dealing with two difficult issues and two really industrial break-ins that we have seen in Finland in recent years. When it comes to winterfell, we actually made a double decision, the first one being a controlled shutdown. Controlled shutdown doesn't mean it's closed at this point. We transferred EUR 144 million in the amending budget to this managed resolution, and then, at a later stage, we will decide if the resolution takes place in full, what kind of support measures are being given to the region. The second decision is a derivative of this. Of course, we still hope that there will be an international or private investor who will take over Winterfell. There are seven months to play, so to speak. Of course, Microsoft is a separate case from this one. There has been a lot of talk about bridge financing, about the system created by Microsoft, but I agree with Mrs Essayah that I am disappointed with the promises made by Microsoft. I have been involved both as Minister for Foreign Trade and as Prime Minister
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u17	Madam President! I want to make one thing clear. The Talvivaara mine is not falling to the fact that the administrative court required compliance with the law in the field of water protection. The Talvivaara mine is falling to the point where its production is unprofitable and has not been able to manage its environmental responsibility. And that is why I am deeply surprised that the Minister for Economic Affairs is putting responsibility for this decision on the back of the administrative court. But the real question in the direction of Minister of Labour Lindström: will the government now start to support sudden structural change already during this transitional period so that Kainuu's employment and regional development can be supported in the best possible way? And the same applies to all the cities affected by these Microsoft redundancies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u18	Mr President! I think I said in my first reply that the government is prepared to deal with this restructuring.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u19	Madam President! Yesterday was a cold day in Kainuu, Tampere, Espoo and Salo. Despite the gloom, we now need decisions that create a view and hope that we will not remain in this fire and, above all, concrete decisions and measures are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u22	That's what Mr. Stubb asked me to do first. Would you like to speak? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u23	Madam President! When the floor is allowed, it will certainly be used. I fully agree with Mr Lindtman that hope should not be left behind in this situation. We are now in a great transformation, and perhaps the best symbol of all that is is the 1990s. That's when. Finland rose to the top of the telecommunications revolution, precisely through Nokia and the mobile phone business, and it generated economic growth and jobs in a derivative way, with which Finland was successful and, in fact, rose from the recession in the early 1990s to that year 2008. I believe that we are currently at the forefront of the same type of industrial revolution — the fourth industrial revolution, which includes digitalisation, robotisation, the industrial Internet, artificial intelligence, 3D printing. I believe that the thousand engineers who are dismissed from Microsoft's side are those who are also able to raise Finland to this wave of the fourth industrial revolution. In that sense, I fully agree with you that hope should not be abandoned at this stage, and I believe that we, as an engineering nation, are still able to rise here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u24	Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u25	Mr President! When we lose those high-processing jobs, as is the case in this case, the government has drafted it in its government programme in such a way that we also want those high-processing jobs back here. When you asked us if we were going to change something, we believe in that government programme, but of course these cases always make us look at these things and, of course, we must also question our own ideas when something new comes along. But for the time being, we are going through the programme that we have agreed together, and we believe that it will lead to competitiveness and to those high-processing jobs, so that we do not have to intervene on the public side as much as we have had to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u26	Värderade Talman! Regeringens beslut att varva ner verksamheten i Talvivaara är correct och ingen vinner på effecterklokhet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u27	Madam President! Winterfell has been on the government's table for many years now in the Committee on Economic Policy, and we have had to re-evaluate each time. As I recall, the current Managing Director of Winterfell said that he has been in the Committee on Economic Policy 20 times. We've had three things to guide us. The first is the environment: to be taken care of. The second is jobs, and the third is that the process can work at all. From this point of view, the company can also be bought. Now whether or not the activity is raised and driven up and sold or whether it is raised and driven up and down, costs are incurred. I'm sure your estimate of a billion dollars is not far from the truth. Does it cause blackmail elsewhere? Well, of course it does, because we live within our economic framework and framework in general. But we assume that, as a state, we have responsibility for the environment, among other things, and that is why money is not at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u28	Minister Soini had asked to speak on previous questions, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u29	Madam President! Just like the Minister of Finance said. Now it would be irresponsible not to give any money and say that we are done. All the processes would be left unfinished, all the environmental issues would be worse off. This is a disgusting decision. I hope there's another spark of hope here. It's the seven-month window now. But of course, as Mr Lindtman said, action is needed now, and you asked what is needed now. Now we need that competitiveness pact. Here I would like to publicly thank the Paper Union and those unions that have already made a decision in principle that it would be good to take this forward. In it we get an excellent kick, a kick-off, and also a positive and positive view of this and the culture of reconciliation. I hope it really does come about. Responsible marriages have already begun, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u30	Mr President! Yesterday’s day meant that the future of some 2,500 people and their families became very uncertain. That is a very difficult matter in this respect and we must respond to it. Just as Minister Soini has just said, the best way to react is to improve Finnish competitiveness and bring this competitiveness pact to a close. But even if these redundancies take place as a mass, everyone’s employment is their own story: who becomes an entrepreneur, who finds jobs in the same industry in other jobs, and who needs accurate training to find employment in other jobs. Previous experiences of Nokia’s redundancies in Tampere, for example, have shown that these jobs are available. The situation in Winterfell will then be its own, and hopefully solutions will also be found there. My question to the Minister for Labour is this: is it already in place or will it be introduced to move from work to work, that, while we are still working, as many people as possible are already finding a new path to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u31	Mr President! This is precisely one of the ways in which we hope to find that positive solution for some people. Of course, all these instruments that have already been found to be good are in the toolbox when it comes to solving these problems. Of course, we remember that we have had years of experience with these. The words'sudden structural change' have already given me a whiff of my own, which is perhaps more of a continuous structural change than a sudden one. We have experience of how to deal with these issues, and some cases have been handled well and some then have been treated slightly less well, but we know what means work. These are the means, of course, tried to use and, at the same time, this company itself, as I said, hopefully bears social responsibility and will be involved in these efforts to help these people move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u32	Madam President! Yesterday really was a day of grief. It was a day of grief when we heard news from both Microsoft and Winterfell. In Tampere, the loss of a job due to Microsoft and Nokia’s announcements means nearly 1,000 people. For example, many in Hervanta are now concerned about tomorrow and are experiencing great uncertainty. President! In this context, the general issue of the level of employment and training appropriations is strongly raised. They have been severely cut by this government in these times, and the SDP has repeatedly called for more of these resources to be provided for employment to respond to this terrible situation. President! Now that such a situation is at hand, I would like to ask again what we have not yet received an answer to: would it not be time, at the latest, to increase the appropriations for employment and training as a matter of urgency? President! There's another thing that hasn't been answered yet, so I'm gonna ask you again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u33	Madam President! I understand that I have already replied that the government has decided its own line and is always looking at them from time to time, whether they are OK or not. Now, of course, there is a situation in which we can look at all the measures that can be taken, but I am not going to promise you more money for employment from this box. It is not my mandate, it is the government that deals with these issues among itself, if there is any money to give them. We'll understand this. I said we have some money in TEM that can be allocated here, and this is, of course, the tool that is being used now, but then these bigger patterns will be decided within the government. I'm sure this is the kind of conversation we should have right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u34	Mr President! The Sipilä government often talks a little demeaning about trick job creation, but the fact is that every trick should be used in this time to get people employed. In that sense, I very much regret that the Minister of Labour is precisely giving a slightly understated answer to the question as to whether the government might consider adding: I ask you: during the last period a temporary law was passed on that if a person who is long-term unemployed is employed, he or she would be allowed to keep his or her labour market support for a few months, despite the fact that he or she is employed. We talked about this kind of bonus for the long-term unemployed. In this situation, could you consider experimenting in the public sector with the fact that if a person is employed in an association of the unemployed or other services of the third sector, he or she will be allowed to keep his unemployment allowance? Could you try something like that in this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u35	Mr President! I cannot possibly understand that what I said was a despicable tone. I really don't despise you in this situation. But let us now go to this question ourselves. When you ask whether you could consider any measures I could consider if I had an excessive amount of money, but when these decisions do not come about here and now, we must have a debate within the government at all on whether there is something to be checked in this line that we have chosen. I have already told you that we are getting serious about these things, having discussions with regions, drawing conclusions and helping what we can do, but things like this, that here and now changing some line radically, are so big questions that I alone can't solve them here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u36	Mr President! We now have a budget year less than halfway through, and we have employment appropriations for this year. After every major dismissal, we should not seek a solution to the fact that an additional budget is available. On the contrary, we should not give Microsoft the message, even of the opposition, that the state will pay, but I am sure that the company is now willing to negotiate with the state and with the people who are being made redundant on the forms of dismissal. Does the Minister for Labour agree that these packages should be built in such a way that the better rewarded, as it were, the more active and faster the person seeks a new job or leaves for startups or others? We must now have an incentive system and this large company to pay these costs, and not the first one to call on the state to do so. And with Talvivaara’s share of 144 million extra money for this year — that is, much of the money is spent on running its mine, but it is also a very large contribution to employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u37	Mr President! Yes, Mr Vanhanen, as an experienced politician, knew how this was going, and that is how we must think that the company must be held as responsible as possible for what they have done here, that is to say, they are firing people, and they have told us that they are shouldering this responsibility, and that responsibility must of course be maximised. And that is precisely the encouraging aspect of starting a business. It is the idea that at some point you can hire some more people and it will bring new growth. Yes, all these experiences, like the Nokia Bridge programme — even though they do not provide solutions for all, there are good cases. Let's try to follow them. I understand that in this situation, here and now, it does not so much comfort them who are going to be unemployed, but it is only so that we have to look forward. I know that from my own experience.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u38	Madam President! Mr Vanhanen asked the right question and gave an answer. Of course, these packages and everything we have there must be taken. Now we must encourage and encourage the people who have been affected by this accident — the fact that the job has gone — that we are constantly and immediately actively starting to work, to seek work and not to wait for the stage when some package money runs out, but to take immediate action and seek immediate work, thereby creating a positive attitude when there is a certain security, basic security, and, as it were, a pillow here, that could be easier then to move forward. I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u39	Mr President! Kainuu must not now be left alone in this difficult situation, but must support the prospects for the future, and we also need funds already in the transitional period and hopefully it will soon come up with a plan. These redundancies from Microsoft yesterday were very sad but unfortunately not terribly surprising in view of the development of Microsoft’s telephone sales, and not many people initially believed in the company’s promises to maintain jobs. Microsoft must support the re-employment of those who are dismissed, but help is also needed from the government. Public funding for research, product development and innovation is important for the ICT sector. Innovation funding pays itself back many times as much. R & D funding can generate new jobs and new innovations and support growth, create new soots. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of cutbacks from that side — over 30% from Tekes. Is the government prepared to spend more money on Tekes, so that we can support the workers who are being made redundant from Microsoft and the growth of the ict sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u40	Madam President! I agree with Mr Vanhanen that Microsoft must take responsibility, in the same spirit as Mr Vanhanen just said. Nor can we build the impression, as it were, that the state will come from this sitting when Microsoft has taken this decision. We will, of course, have tough negotiations with Microsoft on the way forward in this area, and I believe that the burden of proof is precisely on the side of this company. At this sitting, as Minister of Finance, I cannot promise any additional funding. To Tekes because of this particular question. We will deal with the budgetary issues in a very normal order: partly in the amending budget, which was decided today, and then the next time in the budget debate in August.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u41	Two more questions, that is, Mr Lindtman and then Mr Ihalainen, the author of the original question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u42	Mr President! For the sake of clarity, it has to be said that no one here in the opposition, at least as far as I know, has suggested that this is where the Microsoft package should be made — it is these people. For the sake of clarity, I would like to comment on this speech by Mr Vanhanen. As far as this corporate responsibility is concerned, the world has traditionally managed it in such a way that it is a little more expensive to lay off in these situations. But when this discussion has taken place in Finland, quite a bit of support has come from the other side of the hall. Mr President! What matters now is what the government does in concrete terms. And there is one question that we have not answered: does this change the government's decisions on cuts in unemployment security, the abolition of periods of protection, the allocation for employment? The Minister of Labour said he couldn't promise from that sitting. Even if you cannot promise to sit there, please state your assessment as Minister for Employment. Do you think that the government's employment policy should now be changed? That's what people would love to hear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u43	Madam President! Government employment policy is part of this government programme and we believe it. And, as I said, we believe that, once we have competitiveness in this country, we will have the high-processing jobs that will become tax revenue that will become money for the public sector. We are not changing this employment policy after these decisions, but when it comes to individual cases we always wonder how we can help. But it is not our labour policy that can go so far as to keep it in check. We believe in this. We've only been in the government for a year. We believe that the mark will begin to appear positive, just during this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u44	Mr President! On top of everything that has already been said, of course, the essential thing is how to create new ones, how companies can move forward and be able to employ new people in these areas too. Similarly, the government is, of course, prepared to discuss how, through education, we can strengthen the opportunities for people who have been made redundant to get new jobs. When asked about Tampere in particular, such an example of what we can do and what we are already doing: There is currently a unique, fine project running under the name T3, i.e. two universities of applied sciences in Tampere and the university of applied sciences are joining forces. We are building a completely new concentration in Finland that has never seen before, a competence that combines the competence of universities and the competence of universities of applied sciences, and I am quite sure that as a result the Pirkanmaa region will be strengthened, and this has also been one that has strongly combined Pirkanmaa and has been at the forefront of the objectives of lobbying there. We in the Ministry of Education and Culture and as a government are prepared to strongly support the goal of this project through strategy funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u45	Mr President! I would have repeated the question of whether it would not be good to build such a solid, credible economic policy for growth and a specific employment programme in the region of Kainuu and that funding would be sought together. We are prepared to contribute to such a programme if it is needed. The second thing is that, as it were, this window of time was left until autumn, at the turn of the year, if new anchor ownership were to be found and other conditions were to be met. But now, if we have any heart for these people, this window of time is also important to the fact that even if it closes, people have time to apply for education and work and spend this six months searching for it. And that's why we need that window of time right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u46	Mr President! My predecessor, Mr. Ihalainen, is at the very heart of the matter. Growth programme for Kainuu: In fact, I could answer this by saying that we in TEM have a programme for growth in general or in preparation. But the fact that Kainuu has its own — when we talk to the people in that area and get to hear what ideas they have, as I said, if we only have the means to help, then, of course, we will help, and thank you for providing your help for this job, that is all we need. They don't leave the Kainuu alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u47	Next question, Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u48	Madam President! At the moment, there is a high probability that a Finnish elderly person will be mistreated in a nursing institution. The Finnish Social and Health Administration Valvira commissioned a large, extensive survey of the subject for employees, and the result was gruesome. Almost all, 93 percent of the respondents, had found abuse, one in five of them being ordered and even punished. Finnish carers are scarce and partly inadequate, 0.5, i.e. one nurse per two elderly people. This survey also made it clear that urgency and insufficient care providers increase the risk of abuse. Nevertheless, the government plans to continue to tighten the nurse’s standards and lower them to 0.4. I would therefore like to ask the government now whether this harsh research has led you to other ideas about tightening up the nurseship, and by what other means you intend to improve the position of Finnish elderly people in care institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u49	Madam President! We are in a situation like this after research and investigation that existing laws and regulations are not complied with. Secondly, we are in a situation where those figures tell us that human caring for another person has gone away somewhere other than where one should help a woman or a man who needs help. What has been done since these research results is that, at this stage at the latest, attempts are being made to recall and, in this Question Time too, to say out loud that we have only had a point in the Act on Elderly Services from the beginning of last year in which we have to invest in self-monitoring in every nursing institution, we have to see how these different units are managed and so on. These shortcomings indicate, among other things, that existing legislation is not being complied with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u50	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u51	Madam President! The magazine is in the trees, and for that reason too many Finns expect social welfare reform and the improvements it brings to care for the elderly. The government has planned large-scale integration in the context of the social welfare reform, and many fear that this integration will not at least develop or promote the integration and cooperation of elderly care, primary health care and specialised health care. How can large-scale companying be made to work in such a way that health care at different levels speaks the same language and cooperates well?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u52	Madam President! The original question related to the abuse of the elderly. There is a certain distance from how the social welfare reform brings this help when we are in a situation where (1) the legislation in force is not being complied with; (2) one part of the abuse is that in the units where this has been observed, where this feedback has come from, for example, there is room for leadership to do so; (3) we will never, by any legislation or any social reform, change the situation if the person who is responsible for helping another person, his own humanity or an idea of how that work should be done is such that such feedback comes into the study. On the other hand, it is a question of resources. Why is there a change in social welfare and health care? Because the resources available would be better than at present, both for staff and for the euro, for the task which, for example, is going to be commonplace in the case of elderly services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u53	Madam President! The government has allocated various savings to older people, such as increased service charges, reduced housing allowance and also allocated pharmaceutical costs to the elderly. With regard to services, savings are now being targeted at the most vulnerable people, i.e. those who need daily help and support in all their everyday lives and care. The Government is now proposing a reduction in the size of personnel. We know that the work of the elderly is extremely demanding and burdensome and that many workers today feel that their work is not valued and that they are not able to carry out their work in the best possible way. Simply enough time is not enough to carry out this valuable work. Mr President! Minister Ruhula, you were asked a question specifically about this report on the abuse of Valvira. However, you did not answer it clearly. What are your measures in relation to the Valvira report,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u54	Madam President! I think Mr Kiljunen had an old record on to the point that, according to my memory, at least the government did not intervene in the housing allowance for the pensioner, but it may be that I remember incorrectly. But then, actually, to the question. What do we do? Firstly, we have a valid old-age service law which requires more self-monitoring. Every place that provides elderly services must have a self-monitoring plan. Secondly, these self-monitoring plans must cover, for example, the obligation to report — this has become a requirement for professionals who experience and see, for example, abuse or other forms of treatment that do not correspond, for example, to human dignity. This study also tells that there are major shortcomings, for example a lack of awareness of the fact that this kind of self-control plan has had to be made. No plan will turn into practical action if attitudes are inconceivable — for example, if people are afraid
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u55	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen raised this medical treatment, these medical costs, too, and this is a very important issue, and it also has a very important economic impact on the economic survival of older people and also on the extent to which they are taking medicines at all. I would like to remind you that we are currently working on this programme for the development of rational medical treatment, which aims at the appropriate, necessary and sensible medical treatment, which at best also saves those costs for these elderly people. Surely we all know that when medicines are used, perhaps even unnecessarily prescribed and overlapping, then these costs can rise to very substantial amounts on a monthly basis and also undermine its economic survival.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u56	Mr President! I do not believe that there are so many attitudes in the care institutions, but that there is a real shortage of resources when trying to make these self-controls and management plans there. But, Mr President, this situation in the care of the elderly is very serious, as Mr Järvinen has said here. According to reports, almost all nurses in both home and institutional care are deeply concerned about the abuse of the elderly and even about the loss of jobs. However, the government will reduce carers from institutional care and weaken the Act on Elderly Services. Nurses are exhausted, and the level of treatment will be reduced. The most important thing right now would be to get more motivated nurses and give them the opportunity to do their job well and carefully. Minister, how will it be ensured that care for the elderly will be of high quality in the future and that there will also be a future of motivated and good carers in the sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u57	Madam President! Here again, the black does not turn white, but neither is the matter and the situation as dramatic as is implied in this Question Time. Fewer are news of the houses or offices, of the units that care about the time in which everyone can be an individual. That's what we need to do. Well, then more than one questioner has asked what the government is doing. We have started work last autumn in which new models for service guidance are being built together with municipalities and regions. We are building models of good practice that are being spread throughout the country. We have the policies and models that have the dignity of treatment, which conveys, in the context of existing regulations and resources, the time to deal with them. This work has started in the autumn of last year, and this spring is already in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u58	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Alla våra äldre har rätt till en värdig ålderdom, och det är också vår skyldighet att se till att vårt system är sådant att det fungerar så att man kan kkänna sig trygg. Vi har också närståendevårdare som gör ett oerhört viktigt arbete, och vi skulle inte klara äldrevården i Finland utan våra närståendevårdare.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u59	Madam President! From the current situation, the journey will continue after the change in social welfare and health care so that we have 18 operators with responsibility for organisation. Of the current criteria — which are varied: the law is the same for all, but there is room for discretion — we have a journey towards more uniform operating models and uniform criteria now on the way to the end of the road, once the social change has been made final, there are no more than 18 criteria, and I myself would like to say out loud that I think the change is significant. Whether we will ever have a day, that there is only one payer and one operator, then time will show, but this change will at least happen with certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u60	Madam President! We have good and decent care for the elderly in many places, but unfortunately there are also many examples of care that does not meet the standards of good care. This Valvira report is a worrying cry for decent treatment of the elderly. After all, in the last period there was an old-age service law and also a decision that, if there is one institution in which the level of human resources is below that level of recommendation, there will then be a law on adequate staffing, and I am now concerned that, on the contrary, the government is already, on its own initiative, undermining this level of human resources. So I ask you: is it not time to secure care for the elderly at the level on which we ourselves want to spend our own old age? And it does require the hands that care for them. Robots do not replace decent care and human contact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u61	Madam President! One abuse, let alone a physical injury, is too much injury. Each one of us is his own individual, and each one experiences in his own way. The same treatment, the level of care and the level of care may be good for someone and bad for someone. And then what we decided and what we decided: I did not want to go into history during this speech either and I do not want to go to this point either. Even in these respects, which are the resources of the elderly services, I could point out if I wanted to, but it is of no use at all. What is now being sought and what this government is trying to do: the customs and the level of care that exist — we have examples of how existing resources have time to walk, feed, care for basic hygiene and so on — should only be made to spread. Second, if this is a nurse’s measure
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u62	Mr President! The opposition stimulated an important debate on care and care for the elderly. In the Valvira report, which was exceptionally large in number, my own attention was drawn to the fact that, in addition to the abusers, the abusers had been investigated and about half proved to be personnel-oriented and half were made by other patients or relatives. I therefore believe that the Minister's first speech is a message that it is a question of not complying with the current law and, on the other hand, of treating one another with dignity, is one aspect which should be taken into account in this report. But I would like to ask the Minister whether, for example, in this key project on home care and good care for the elderly and the elderly, one of the objectives is to draw up this better guidance for the staff in dealing with this abuse situation: what to do, where to contact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u63	Madam President! First of all, that study, which has been carried out, that study, which has asked whether you have seen abuse, has been answered by 93% of the respondents that yes. Over 90% is that figure. The answer was also structured in such a way that it was done by a nursing staff or by another resident or family member. This, too, must be borne in mind that, through supervision of what is happening there in the care and care unit during the day-to-day period, these options are, unfortunately, in a situation where, for example, the care staff may not have had time to intervene between the residents. But then, as far as the key projects are concerned, this is the basic message that we are now seeking solutions that have proved to be effective, and the aim is to provide guidance for the treatment units as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u64	Mr President! I was right to think about what the Minister said: 'too easy a solution' if the number of nurses were to be regulated by law — 'too easy a solution'. Thus, in a 14-seat nursing home, where there are 14 elderly people and now, for example, there are two working evening shifts, the government will in future make it possible for there to be only one employee there. And you think it is too easy to keep this dimension at the current level, for example — on the contrary, you want to cut it off — let alone, by law, to make sure that every elderly person in every nursing unit throughout Finland has enough nurses. This is going to sound shocking. That is why I would like to ask how, Minister, the services of the elderly can no longer be cut, when the work is already being done at the very limit of endurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u65	Madam President! It seems to me that having a constructive conversation is a little bit or quite a bit difficult. We are in a situation where the first questioner asked what to do with abuse. I answered and answered: Compliance with the law in force, compliance with the existing self-control guidelines, for example, what it involves, is the path to move forward. If the hospice of care were to end the abuse on the day when the change in the hospice you are now proposing from the opposition came, then I am sorry if I used the wrong word and too loose expression, but it will not solve the problem of leadership or attitude problems, for example, if caring, care is not a genuine thing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u66	Madam President! The opposition had every opportunity last season to sign up as a nurse in the law, but you didn't. I want to correct that mistake when it is said here that the nurse’s size is falling everywhere: No, it does not. In the long-term bedkeeping, there in the heaviest care, the nurseship is maintained
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u67	Mr President! One part of the possibility of change is that these issues are being discussed. For example, an important message for workers in the workplace is not to cover up what is a problem and where people experience and see situations that are even low on human dignity in everyday life. In these cases, what has been revealed during the past winter and spring since what has happened in Turku, one part of what has been known over the years is that the information has not passed sufficiently. This is a key point: in order to get to a better level so that more humane old age is possible for each of us, it means that we have to talk and then we have to correct problems when it comes to problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u68	This question is closed. — Today, then, we had two very topical themes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u69	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 6/2016 vp, the position on the report is now decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the committee, the debate will take a rapid part, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes for the speeches requested in advance. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u70	Mr President! The EU adopted the Battlegroup concept in 2004 to develop the rapid response capabilities needed for military crisis management as well as the military capabilities of the Member States of the Union. Despite the fact that fighting groups have so far not been used in crisis management operations, cooperation within the framework of the concept has opened up the possibility for EU Member States to develop their military cooperation, including joint training of combat teams. The EU fighting sections, Mr President, are primarily tools for crisis management. Compared to other international actors, the Union has an exceptionally wide range of instruments which it seeks to use within the framework of the Global Approach. According to the concept, combat teams can be used either as separate troops or as part of a larger operation. However, as standby teams, they are not suitable for long-term tasks. Cooperation with the UN is a strong assumption in the concept. Despite the fact that the Battlegroups have not been used so far, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it important that the Union continue to maintain the rapid response capability for crisis management in the future. This is also important for EU-UN cooperation. Mr President! Finland has taken part in the battle groups' stand-bys, you can say, with a strong contribution. Prior to this, the Finnish troops have been on standby five times, and the experience of participation has been positive. The committee notes in its report that participation has played an important role in developing Finland’s crisis management capabilities and the Defence Forces’ capabilities. The committee also estimates that this time of participation in a force of some 50 soldiers will enable the development and testing of Defence Forces capabilities as part of a multinational force. From the point of view of national defence, the main benefit of participating in the Battlegroup has, in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, been linked to the development of cooperation and compatibility with the countries involved in the Battlegroups. This is also relevant to the practical implementation of the mutual assistance clause of the Treaty of Lisbon. In the Committee's view, the Battle Divisions have created a concrete operational basis for the cooperation of the participating countries in situations other than military crisis management. Mr President! Despite the benefits described above, the battle groups have not been used once. The Committee on Foreign Affairs shares the view expressed in the opinion of the Committee on Defence that the changes made to the concept of the Battlegroup have been very small and have a modest impact. It is obvious that the Member States of the Union have not been prepared to open up the concept to critical scrutiny in the fear that the once-opened concept will no longer be brought together. The committee held a debate on usability and concluded that Finland may well, in view of its previous active participation history, play an active role in discussions on the development of usability. At the same time, however, attention was drawn to the fact that the key to increasing usability is primarily linked to the real political will of the Member States to use combat groups. Like the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it necessary to present a statement to the Parliament for approval that Parliament requires the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence to draw up a report on the benefits of participating in the Battlegroup to date for Finland after the end of the British-led battle group. The report should also examine Finland’s target setting in relation to the Battlegroup concept and the development of rapid response capabilities with various international actors. This is also necessary because the report does not explain any further plans for Finland's participation in battle groups. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that the solutions aimed at reducing the national approach to the involvement of combat teams in contingency shifts are good. These measures have made it possible to significantly reduce the costs of the training and establishment phase and of the standby period. The problem is, however, that the cost of a possible combat unit operation has not been set aside and would therefore have to be covered by an amending budget. Mr President! On the basis of the above considerations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is in favour of the deployment of a military unit in high readiness as part of the British-led combat unit for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016. The committee submits to Parliament for approval that "there are no objections to the report by the Parliament" and that "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence requires that, in cooperation with the British-led Battlegroup, a report be prepared on the benefits of the war group involvement to date for Finland. The report should also examine Finland's target setting in relation to the Battlegroup concept and the development of rapid response capabilities with various international actors."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u71	In the meantime, Mr Soini has asked to speak. Then two speeches, Mr Mustajärvi and Mr Myllykoski, followed by a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u72	Madam President! Parliament has discussed in depth the report on the deployment of a military unit in high readiness as part of the British-led combat unit's stand-by as of 1 July. Thank you in particular to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence for a very good report and opinion. For the sixth time now, Finland is taking part in the stand-by of the EU Battlegroup, this time in a department led by the United Kingdom. The other participating countries are Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden. Finland will set up a reconnaissance team, an air fire control team, a staff officer and the necessary support elements, a total of about 50 soldiers. The Battle Divisions are the only instrument in the EU's common security and defence policy that is in permanent readiness and a key tool for developing the capabilities and interoperability of the Member States. For Finland, participation in the Battlegroup is an important part of our consistent contribution to the development and implementation of the Common Security and Defence Policy, especially when we remember these acts of terrorism and many other threats to security. This line has always had strong support from Parliament. Mr President! Three weeks ago, a lively referral debate took place in this Chamber, which raised a number of important questions. The speeches gave strong support to Finland's participation in the Battlegroup led by Great Britain. A number of contributions stressed the benefits of combat group action for the Defence Forces. In addition to the development of capabilities and crisis management capabilities for domestic defence, the importance of extending the bilateral cooperation network was underlined. The use of combat groups, or rather a lack of them, was also strongly highlighted in the referral debate. This is an important question. The reasons for this lack of use are well known, as are the most obvious means of improving usability: more co-financing, more flexible use of departments and the most difficult improvement of political decision-making capacity. This is something that Finland has consistently promoted. On various occasions, the Parliament has stressed that fighting forces can only strengthen the EU's ability to act if they have real capacity and capacity. This is easy to agree with. It is important to continue the debate on improving usability within the EU and at national level. At the same time, the undisputed benefits of participation, improved interoperability and the possibility of developing, testing and comparing national competences with partner countries should be borne in mind. As the security environment changes, international interoperability will become even more important in the future. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has voted in favour of Finland's participation in the stand-by of the British-led combat unit. In this report, the committee stresses the importance of participating in the Battle Group in the development of the Defence Forces' capabilities, and considers that this is also a good opportunity. The report also highlights the relationship between combat group activities and the implementation of the EU aid clause. The committee considers that cooperation within the Battlegroups has provided a concrete basis for co-operation between the participating countries in situations other than crisis management. This is a heavy message. As far as the future is concerned, the committee requires the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence to draw up a joint report on the benefits for Finland of participating in the Battle Group so far. The proposal involves both the foreign and defence committee’srequirements to assessthe Finland’s objectives in relation to This is a task we will be happy to take on. From time to time, it is good to stop and critically evaluate both the past and the future: what are our contributions, what is the output, how we can most effectively pursue our goals. Mr President! Finally, Battle Department participation supports Finland’s national defence, development of our capabilities and interoperability and helps deepen bilateral defence cooperation with important partner countries. It is a concrete contribution to the development of a common EU security and defence policy and to strengthening the defence dimension. In today’s world, these are even more powerful reasons to play our part in our joint work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u73	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Kaikko, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Mr Soini for their close and proper presentation, even though I am not all the same with us. In the Committee on Defence, I have left a different opinion on this matter, and it is probably appropriate for it to present its main points. Firstly, the EU Battlegroup has not solved a single crisis, prevented a disaster or eliminated a single threat. They have not responded to the need for them to be established in the past: to prevent genocide. This standby mill, which has continued since 2007, has been run as an invisible coercion, and I suspect that, although there is a statement in that report, it will only lead to this mill being run on a slightly different basis. Finland’s repeated decisions to participate have become a continuum that will not be called into question or discussed in principle. I hope that position in the report will lead to a better opening-up, however. However, it is quite clear that the current EU Battlegroup concept and system cannot live much longer. If the battle groups are a tool for rapid crisis management and military performance development, neither of them will work. At present, the establishment and training of EU combat teams could be described as a long-term international review exercise. If that is the case, then the input-output ratio could in another way be better. If, on the other hand, the main criterion is to strengthen the EU's common security and defence policy, then it must be said that this is an increasingly deepening EU federal development and militarisation, even in a situation where the EU is fighting for its existence under pressure of internal conflicts. And if there is hardly any other stick-on glue in the EU, then is it the only force holding the EU together to build a military complex of all forms? The decision to use the Battlegroup requires unanimity among all EU Member States. In the case of, for example, the safeguarding of an object, airport or port, the taking over of a restricted area or similar activities, decision-making is unhelpful. If there is no common picture of the situation, how will a unanimous decision be reached? And I suppose it is signed by everyone that we are living in a very unstable time in Europe. Mr President! The Left Alliance's Parliamentary Group has made the proposal a statement, which reads: "The Parliament requires that the Government, in its preparation, re-evaluate the participation in the Battlegroup activities, including possible disengagement from the Battle Department. " I regret that, for reasons of schedule, I cannot stay here in the debate and discuss an interesting subject further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u76	Mr President! I support Mr Mustajärvi's proposal for a position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u77	As previously agreed at this stage, a small debatable tour can take place. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u78	Mr President! Thank you for the presentation both to the Minister and to the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is true that the EUBG forces benefit from Finnish national defence in terms of performance and also of this compatibility, which has been highlighted many times, can be increased. However, this is not entirely unproblematic and, of course, there is a major problem with the resources at our disposal. In its own opinion, the Committee on Defence wishes to draw particular attention to this aspect of the previous 2011 experience, which cost a reasonable amount. That is why we must continue to look very critically at these concrete benefits. These reports must be submitted to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u79	Mr President! In this world situation, where situations can change and be rapidly escalated into serious conflicts and crises at the very least, it is essential to be prepared for a rapid response. This capability does not come about on its own, but requires training and experience, for example, in UN operations, but also, in my view, in these EU combat teams. This is where Mr Mustajärvi raised some interesting criticisms, and I hope that this report will be made and then provide answers to those concerns. From experience I know that such UN missions have both military and civilian crisis management issues such as "in mission training", which are of very high quality. It will also provide it with the capacity for future issues, and they will practice practical cooperation and coordination there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u80	Mr President! I have been a little surprised at public speeches that have criticised these troops because they have never been used. We do not have an army in Finland because we want to use it, but precisely because we do not have to use it. And that is why it is good for the EU to have such troops. The Finnish Defence Administration has stated that involvement in combat teams has strengthened the functioning of our own defence and has played an important role in its development, and this is also why it is worthwhile to participate in them. But, of course, it is true that decision-making, burden-sharing and this type of question should be assessed as highlighted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in its own report. But I would ask Minister Soin if this concept, this part of what Finland will do with these troops, could also be considered as a model that could be used in future, for example, in the case of the possible use of the EU aid clause.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u81	Mr President! There is often talk of federal development in the EU. Everyone has a slightly different idea of what is federal development, but it is certainly clear that if the EU deepens military cooperation very much, then what is federal development. If we consider the role of Finland, we must be involved in solving crises in the world, participating, existing as a mediator. Our strengths are particularly in civilian crisis management and UN peacekeeping operations, and I welcome the fact that the committee has drawn attention to the need to assess how this is in relation to this other activity. The statement made by Mr Mustajärvi is even stronger, saying that these benefits really need to be assessed in relation to this Battlegroup concept and the cost of this other crisis management that is being carried out. Could we make a better and stronger contribution by investing these in civilian crisis management and UN peacekeeping operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u82	Mr President! When this BG business started about ten years ago, it was criticised by not interfering in international conflicts. We are now criticising the fact that BG has not been used once in about ten years. I welcome the fact that the committee is presenting a report on the concrete benefits of cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs. This is also important because Finland has not yet planned to participate in the next battle group. Minister Soini promised that this boost will be taken seriously, that is good to say here. I hope that this will also lead to Finland, within the European Union, trying to launch a broader debate on the future of this concept of combat group action, not only for the benefit of Finland, but also for the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u83	Mr President! The representative to Mustajärvi is enough that the Finns of Peru have not turned their coat here or ate their words. This estate of the EU, to which Finland has in due course been attached in such a way that... If we have an estate in a normal life here and it's fixed, that responsibility remains with that estate. There has been the SDP and the Left Alliance, everyone, attaching Finland to that estate. Now this responsibility has only remained with us, the signatories, so that is where these roots come from. I'd like to ask you that much about this combat squad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u88	Mr President! I myself am also one of those who consider this combat force and the establishment of high readiness to be a good thing. I would like to draw attention to the part where I find these partners very interesting. There is Great Britain and Ireland, and cooperation with Sweden in particular is important, because this cooperation with Sweden has been strongly emphasised in recent times. This clarification of benefits is extremely important, because in the future this issue will have to be justified on different grounds whenever these forces are perhaps set up. However, I personally would see this training and readiness as an important issue. Here, 10 days' readiness to leave, if that invitation comes, is already quite a state of readiness and will show Finland's readiness to take part in international activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u89	Mr President! Finland is an impartial country that must foster good relations, diplomatic relations, both east and west. However, in defence cooperation, we are heading west, so I would like to ask the Foreign Minister, now that this benefit of Finland is being investigated, whether it would be worth assessing whether the NATO NRF and the training currently being provided in Rissala can be used, and then whether this EUBG cooperation would be as little as the same leader in some way in the organisation and perhaps create synergies and harmony in this defence and crisis management cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u90	Mr President! Now, of course, there is an interesting detail here that Great Britain is running this stand-by team and this is a month from now before the so-called Brexit referendum, which will determine whether Great Britain will continue to run its course as a member of the EU. Well, that doesn't make any difference. Under all circumstances, Britain will be a member of the EU, at least while this stand-by force is active, and certainly for some time after that, hopefully for a long time. But, admittedly, Britain's exit from the EU would be a big deal and also a problem for the EU's foreign and security policy. Britain is a key military force in the Union. But let us hope for a sound vote on this. Mr President! I looked at that left-wing union statement. It calls for an evaluation. It is not too far from what the committee has proposed. The committee also believes that this should be assessed. I wonder whether it will be open in itself, because nothing has yet been agreed upon after this shift. Of course, if the Minister of Foreign Affairs has a vision of whether or not we are going to go along with this, it would of course be interesting to hear, or will that be the case only a little later?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u91	Reply, Congressman Mäkipää. — — — — After Mäkipää, there are still three other requests for answers, and then if the Minister would be prepared to say a few more words.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u92	Mr President! Although I am next, I would also like to say, in the words of Mustajärvi, that I personally do not, of course, support the federal development of the EU. But I still consider participation to be important for the development of national defence capabilities. When we talk about the price, it is remembered that in 2011 this operation cost almost 30 million, at least we can get to just under 3 million. And, as the Committee on Defence has rightly suggested, it is good that a comprehensive study should be carried out to what extent this operation actually benefits us. It's just so short.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u93	Mr President! In this battle group too, the EUBG combat unit, it is good to note that the majority of the soldiers involved in this war are reservists, i.e. we have a very well-functioning general military service and a reserve-based system that is also capable of producing very high-quality people for international missions. But I would also like to think a little about the point raised by Mr Kaikkonen, this British-led combat force, which we are participating in, and there is indeed this referendum. I would like to ask the Minister what your assessment of the overall security policy implications for the whole of the European Union and for us in Finland would be if Great Britain left the EU? How quickly would these effects come, and what would be the effects? It would be very interesting for you to hear about this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u94	Mr President! As stated above, the majority of Finns involved in this task, around 80%, are reservers, and it is a good commentary and responds well to the question that we have these voluntary women and men in various international positions, which have also been raised around this issue of EU assistance. This also reinforces the fact that we in the EU must be more active in ensuring that the EU Firearms Directive does not, under any circumstances, enter into force as it has been proposed, because this reserve force of ours, which is also going here – that is to say, the majority of this group, is using the weapons that would be banned under the EU Firearms Directive – and that is why I would like to thank the ministers, Minister Soin, but also Orpo and Niinistö, for the determination to prevent this type of legislation from jeopardising our defence solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u95	And a reply from Mrs Ruoho, and then from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u96	Mr President! I mentioned conflicts and various crises earlier in my speech, but I forgot to mention these terrorist attacks: it is indeed extremely important that these battle groups should then be able to act if they happen to come on a larger scale. The problem is, and as a cop, I've learned that you don't know what your opponent's abilities are, that criminals don't tell me what their arsenals and plans are. So it is really important to be ready to prepare for the worst.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u97	Now, if I understood it, the minister could be prepared to comment a little bit. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u98	Mr President! Thank you for your good debut. This was an excellent reflection. I very much appreciate the fact that the Finnish Parliament has a responsible debate here, there is a well-founded debate, there is proper committee work and then there is a wide-ranging reflection on these many issues, because we live in a changing world that is in many ways challenging, partly unpredictable. This impact assessment, to which Mr Kääriäinen referred — and which was also in the speeches of the President and many others — is appropriate. We need to see how things have gone, what can be improved. Representative Mäkipää quite rightly said here that this has sometimes been a very expensive thing, now it is more cost-effective, it does not cost that much. This is a valuable point of view. In other words, this matter has lived and this situation has improved since the time that Mr Mustajärvi, who is not here today, spoke of. I am a little surprised at this, but I would now have replied to him that, at any rate, from those times to this time, now that this government has been, the situation has greatly improved. But, in itself, the representative of Mustajärvi’s reflection also had his own merit. I personally believe that it is very valuable if Parliament as a whole were to be able to agree on foreign and security policy as a whole, to be able to look at and influence the reports in the committees in order to have a national consensus, because all Finns are defended and these things are done for everyone's sake. It does not ask for a membership book, who is defended and who is not. All Finns are defended. This reflection on the solidarity clause and the aid clause is important, because this is just one of the things we have had in the Treaty of Lisbon, both of them, but they have been dead letters, as it were, but now, through brutal terrorist attacks and brutal acts of violence, this has become part of our reality, and then, well, we had something like this in the toolbox that France asked us to do. We're going to meet you, we're going to peshmerga, maybe UNIFIL or something. We help, we defeat terrorists, we gain valuable experience, we get performance, we test our abilities, and so on. Representative Ruoho very well raised practical operations. I know that you yourself have been involved in these UN operations, and that is valuable work. I would like to thank all the Finns who are involved in these operations, because that is where the work is done and where it is important to seek out and bring that information here and get on with it. Then, Mr Eestilä, we are not quite neutral here, but we are a non-military country seeking the widest possible cooperation. For the rest, your speech was very good and hasty. So we have to look at these things, but Finland has chosen its side. We're part of the West. Then Mr Hakkarainen's estate metaphor was, in his own way, very worthy. For example, at the moment this estate metaphor appears to us as Euro-support packages, which has been a radical policy of error in the previous two governments, which is what we are now suffering in the estate. So this was a very successful quote, with a good sense of humor — just what we should have in the Chamber: a slight challenge and a response to it. Then this was an important question that Savola’s representative asked. Before that, however, Mr Pakkanen: this was a very good point, Ireland and Sweden. We have two neutral countries in this battle group and Sweden, our closest partner. This is a very good concept here to work on. Then we also have some of these other countries in the Northern Group. So this is a good thing. But then let's go to this Britain. The fact is that we cannot know the result, the polls come and the polls go. Great Britain itself decides what it does. But this is very important for three different reasons. Britain is the second largest economy in the European Union. Despite the rebaté negotiated by Margaret Thatcher, it is the second largest net contributor, and it is a very military force in the European Union. It is quite clear that if they leave, it will have dramatic, far-reaching consequences. It's not like saying they can go if they don't like to be. It is a great loss and a place of huge crisis, it is quite clear. And then, when you assess the significance, we have, for example, these structures, there is NATO partnership, there is UNIFIL, there are many of these. Now we also had the first EU-NATO meeting to which Finland and Sweden had been invited. 28+2 configuration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u99	Thank you. Six minutes. — We shall now move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u100	Mr President! Finland will take part in the six-month British-led European Union Battle Group in the second half of this year. In addition to Finland and Great Britain, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden participate in the Battlegroup. The total size of the combat unit is about 1,700 soldiers, of which Finland accounts for over 50. The EU’s battle groups, made up of different groups of countries, have been in readiness for six months since 2007, and Finland is now participating for the sixth time. The Battle Department is the smallest militaryly independent group of troops. It is intended that troops could be used for crisis management tasks in situations where a rapid response to the unexpected crisis is needed. The soldiers in the department have made a voluntary service commitment under which they will be on a high alert during a period of five days in readiness to take part in a possible operation. The use of the combat unit is always a political decision. The leadership and the participating countries have a major role to play in the preparation of decision-making, but it is up to the EU Member States to send a combat unit to the mission. The use of troops in readiness for the EU mission will be decided in Finland in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. National decisions on the possible use of EU Battlegroups are being prepared to take place faster than decisions on participation in other military crisis management operations. This also includes the prior reporting procedure before the start of the standby shift. The decision of the EU Council on the use of the Battlegroup in the operation requires unanimity of all Member States. The report points out that the importance of combat teams in developing Finland’s military capabilities and crisis management capabilities is well established and important. This statement runs counter to the fact that the next contribution to the Battlegroup is not planned in the Defence Administration — as the Committee on Defence has also stated in its opinion. It is therefore important that, before deciding on new engagements, efforts should be made to identify and influence the development of the Battlegroup concept at EU level and how to increase its usability. As has been stated in the Internal Security Report, the security situation in Finland and Europe has substantially changed in the short term. Rapidly evolving and unpredictable threats are possible. Participation is important to develop national defence capabilities. The battle concept dates back to 2004 and needs a thorough review. Finland must play an active role in bringing the update forward in Brussels so that it can be achieved before deciding to take part in the next standby shift. In addition, a study must be carried out on the benefits of Finland's participation, as proposed by the Committee on Defence. Mr President! The costs of Finland’s participation in the training and establishment phase and the preparatory period have been taken into account in the 2016 budget for military crisis management appropriations. These costs of setting up, training and preparedness amount to approximately EUR 2.5 million, including expenditure from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence section. The possible expenditure for the use of the title has not been foreseen in the draft budget for 2016. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has rightly criticised the fact that these costs would remain in the amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u101	Mr President! Good Minister and good colleagues! The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Kaikkonen, went through this dossier quite extensively and very well, and the Minister also went through it before and after that debate. I am not going to go through it any further, but from the point of view of the Committee on Foreign Affairs I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the fact that the Committee on Defence's comments have been taken into account quite broadly in this report and also the report we have presented on this effectiveness has been included in the report. That is what is needed right now because we in Parliament have a very broad sense of unity, that there is a desire to be involved in this. And as has been pointed out in this debate, the protest by the Left Alliance is quite sympathetic and along the same lines as this report, where this report has been recorded, and I believe that everyone is in favour of explaining how these forces could be reformed, how they could be used in a sensible way to strengthen our own defence. We should be involved in all the tasks and forces that strengthen the defence of our own country, and these are above all such. Mr President! At the same time as this discussion, Parliament has been discussing the laws of decision-making on the EU aid clause, but also of the forces used in it, and some of them are still coming to Parliament. In fact, in this debate, I have already pointed out in that debate that we might need to think about this type of combat group model also in connection with the EU's aid clauses. Now we have a good decision-making system in which the President, the Government, the Parliament are involved, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and so on, and a model that will hopefully bring about decisions in the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon, i.e. by all means possible. But one of the problems for us is that this whole, which is very much related to this debate in the Battlegroup, is not going to be the kind of group that we could send to different tasks on that schedule, and I think that this should also be raised in the open public debate better. We could have such a stand-by force, which could also be used in the tasks of international assistance. As is the case here, staff and reserve personnel could be deployed in the force, who would sign an undertaking to leave the mission as soon as the need arises. These forces would be immediately available, inter alia, in the event of a hybrid war and would have been equipped, trained and engaged in immediate action. In the event of a crisis, Parliament would decide whether to use them for domestic defence or to send them to international assistance. We would now find a good model that works, which we could copy from the EU Battlegroup's readiness shifts here for the use of the EU aid clause. The models should now be considered so that we are, in all respects, ready to respond to the commitments we have made. And above all, we need to think about this in such a way that we are not the donor of aid, but we may as well be the recipients of aid. On the other hand, it is not worth fearing that we are simply sending our own young women and men to international missions. We must be prepared for this too, but we must also remember that in this debate we can also get help when we need it, and this is something that is not part of the military alliance. Mr President! Strong support for this action that we have taken in the EU's battle groups, but so that we can now see how we can develop it, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u102	Congressman Kiviranta. — The representative, Mr Savola, then has the floor. I'm sure he'll answer in that connection. Now, Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u103	Mr President! Finland’s participation in the EU’s Battlegroup by placing a military unit in high readiness for action is both a preparation for a possible crisis in the EU and a development of its own defence and international cooperation. During its existence, the Battle Department has not been used for crisis management tasks and, as a possible situation unfolds to the level of the crisis in one region, it will be used to resolve the crisis by a political decision, which will make it possible to assess the situation not only from a military point of view but also from a humanitarian point of view. Of course, the challenge for the department has been that not every department is necessarily best suited for the tasks ahead. The use of the dedicated department can be increased by improving the modularity of the departments and the flow of information between the various participants. More modularity is achieved by modifying the training of troops to enable them to operate in a wider field of activity. It is worth noting that Sweden and Ireland, like Finland, are also involved in the battle group with Finland, which are non-aligned countries. Mr President! Cooperation such as the EU Battlegroup is important for our country. This will enable us to develop international cooperation and improve our own preparedness in the event of a potential crisis in Finland or neighbouring regions. This will also allow us to learn cost-effectively how to develop our activities so that, if necessary, we can act as effectively as possible to minimise the impact of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u104	Mr President! Of course, much has already been discussed and said. I would just like to say that it is a good thing that we have a pretty good consensus in this Chamber and in Finland in general on foreign and security policy solutions. Although there is a difference of opinion here, in practice it is quite similar to what we already have here in the report. I remained to reflect on the idea put forward by Mr Heinonen that this type of stand-by combat force could be used here in our own country when it comes to giving and receiving international aid, in this case in particular for providing assistance. The challenge is that first of all, of course, we need to know what type of help we need. We have more than a dozen different performances that we could give in principle, but here again resource policy issues come, in other words, money in Finnish, and I will also answer if we keep high readiness. If we need protection against chemical weapons, if we need pioneering work, if we need cyber skills and so on, what do we think of them then? In any case, it is worth discussing this, but I suspect that this will not happen very easily in a broader concept, at least suddenly. But I am in favour of this proposal, and I think this is a step forward. Finland participates in the EUBG Corps, which is run by the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u105	Mr President! In the second half of this year, Finland will participate for the sixth time in the stand-by of the European Union Battlegroup. In addition to Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden take part in the six-month stand-by exercise under the leadership of the UK. Finland accounts for 52 soldiers. The EU Battlegroups have been operational since 2007. It is intended that troops could be used for crisis management tasks in situations where a rapid response to the unexpected crisis is needed. So far, however, the battle groups have never been used. The fighting factions are the only permanent force in the EU's common security and defence policy. Finland has taken the view that it is justified to participate in combat group activities. Participation supports the development of Finland’s military capabilities. At the same time, we support the EU's common foreign and security policy cooperation that is important to us. Mr President! This year it will cost some EUR 2.65 million to take part in the standby shift, while five years ago it will cost EUR 29 million. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in favour of Finland's participation in the Battle Department's stand-by. Among other things, the opinion of the Committee on Defence states that participation is important for the development of national defence capabilities. The knowledge of fast action develops and has developed with participation. Threats that are difficult to predict are possible. In addition, international defence cooperation is expanding alongside traditional partner countries. According to the opinion of the Committee on Defence, the Battlegroup concept requires a thorough reassessment in the EU. As far as Finland is concerned, the committee proposes that a study be carried out on the benefits of Finland's participation. In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs criticises the acceptance of operational costs only in the context of the amending budget procedure, which does not support the objective of rapid action. Mr President! I would also like to comment on the criticism of the so-called mandatory deployment of Defence Forces soldiers to international missions. However, the Minister of Defence, Niinistö, has stated that the obligation would apply only to the staff employed by the Defence Forces — in the case of soldiers, that is to say, professional soldiers, who would be subject to official duty. Professional soldiers make up only a small part of Finland’s wartime strength. Priority will be given to the use of persons who have signed up for and belong to crisis management pools. This obligation is not about Finnish conscripts, conscripts or reserves, but their use in international missions must continue to be voluntary. A military oath does not prevent professional soldiers from being assigned to mutual assistance tasks and there is no need to change the pattern of the oath. In accordance with the oath of office, professional soldiers comply with all Finnish laws and act in the best interests of society, so there is no obstacle to mutual assistance tasks either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u106	Mr President! Here we have a little talk about two things in a row, but they are closely related to each other. As Mr Savola has pointed out, we have many different ways of giving the various EU countries in the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon, but the question is, of course, whether we have the right capacity to provide military assistance on the timescale, for example, which could be needed. On the other hand, other countries see through mere speeches, and a country that would give olive oil to another in such a situation would probably also receive olive oil when it needed help. That is why we are very much in favour of considering this issue. Such a model could then arise as to where, for example, the defence branches could have a set of forces whose personnel would have committed themselves to preparedness, both for the defence of their home country and for military assistance tasks, and the tasks of the troops would have been described and assessed in accordance with the tasks of peacetime and military assistance. When you come to these jobs, everyone would know that you could leave the day after tomorrow or tomorrow, and each one would arrange your life accordingly. These forces would form a stand-by force and a military aid force. For example, a model of this type could be reasonable in the future. I hope that this debate will now take place when these agreements which we have already agreed will also be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u107	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u108	Mr President! The bill on the amendment of the food law aims to reduce food waste in Finland. The initiative proposes to add a conditional distribution obligation to the Food Act. The law obliges the sale or withdrawal of edible foods for use by non-profit third parties or, where reasonably possible, to make the food in question available for distribution itself. The bill applies to companies selling municipal offices, shops, bakeries and similar products. With the bill, edible food could no longer be thrown into the garbage if a non-profit-making party asked it to be distributed. These include, for example, food aid organisations at the moment. The bill has no significant economic impact on central government finances, and the bill does not impose any sanctions in this form either. The bill has been prepared through cooperation between six MPs. Currently, in Finland, the distribution of waste food is based on voluntary activities and various pilot projects, but the established practice has not yet developed. We have signed more than a hundred MPs who want to reduce food waste and promote more sustainable food consumption and circular economy and increase food appreciation in Finland. In France, Parliament recently imposed an obligation on trades to hand over the food to be removed for distribution and has already taken a step towards more sustainable development. This is something Finland should be following. The aim of the initiative is to reduce food waste and other food waste. Food loss is the end of edible food into waste. Food production, processing and transport account for a significant part of the global environmental burden. When food ends up in a dumpster, the load will be useless. Reducing food waste contributes to environmental, social and economic sustainability. The bill is in line with the circular economy objectives of the EU and the government. There is now an incredible amount of food in the dumpster, as much as 25-30% of all food produced on earth worldwide. In Finland, it is estimated that some 400 million kilos of food waste accumulates cautiously each year. Food services account for about 20 per cent, industry accounts for about 28 per cent and trade for about 20 per cent, i.e. over 65 million kilos a year. At the moment, only about 10-15% of it is donated to food aid. The climate load of waste food is also high, as waste food has invested resources throughout the entire production chain from cultivation to packaging and transportation. In fact, the annual food waste corresponds to the emissions of about 100,000 passenger cars. At the same time, thousands, if not tens of thousands of people, visit Finnish bread lines each year. According to RAY, as many as 12,600 people regularly visited bread lines in 2014 and the figure is on the rise. This shows an increase in the number of low incomes and an increase in the number of low incomes. Of course, simply improving the distribution of waste is not enough to solve the problem, and social and employment policy instruments are urgently needed to combat poverty. However, the distribution of food aid is valuable work that can temporarily fill gaps in the welfare state, and more actors should be involved in reducing food losses and exploiting them, and effective concepts should be introduced more widely. Political guidance plays an important role in this. In order to combat food loss, changes in attitudes and practices are needed, as well as increasing food appreciation. Recently, Finland has been acclaimingly awakened to the subject. An inspiring and innovative culture has emerged around the topic, bringing together actors in many fields of action. For example, many municipalities have taken advantage of over-reserved star food from school meals by selling it cheaply to other fooders. At best, losses create more valuable products and new business, employment and community. In a spirit of circular economic thinking, edible food could be redirected back to the food chain, and uneatable waste could be used as nutrients. One such innovative circular economy project From Waste to Taste is currently underway in Helsinki. A food recycling centre will be set up for the project, where the food will be transported and the waste will be sorted out to be donated directly to food helpers or collected at a food waste restaurant. The loser food restaurant of the project has gained great popularity both as a lunch and dinner restaurant. The non-profit project employs the unemployed, young people, the long-term unemployed and immigrants to gain access to employment. This is exactly the kind of development that we should support through political decision-making. Legislation is one way of pushing society in the right direction. Finland could be the forerunner of a circular economy, ethical consumption, a greener economy and a more innovative food production chain. It is not sensible to waste food and work, but to increase the efficiency and use of resources. As legislators, we can strive to create structures that encourage citizens to consume more sustainably and to offer different food producers more environmentally friendly offers. On these grounds, I hope that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will start working quickly on this matter and that the law will enter into force in Finland as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u109	Mr President! Today we are talking about an important issue, food: food keeps us alive, food creates jobs, food and its production sustains the vitality of the countryside, food is culture, families and friends gather around food. Not everyone has enough food for every meal. Food is also politics. We throw food in the trash at many different stages. Most food ends up in a bio-waste container in homes, but a lot of waste is also generated in industry, shops and restaurants. The total amount of food thrown into the garbage is about 10-15% of all edible food. Its value is about EUR 500 million a year, and it will ultimately be paid by consumers, that is, all of us. Food waste is a problem for ecological, social and economic sustainability. Food production produces almost one-third of the climate impact, and more than half of the lushing load on Finland's water bodies is caused by food production. If edible food ends up in the garbage, all these emissions have been created in vain. Throwing food in the garbage feels grotesque as more and more Finns pick up their food from bread lines. Globally, malnutrition and food shortages remain a major and burning problem. At the same time, a huge amount of edible food is thrown into locked bins each year. The equation is untenable. Eatable surplus food must be made available to those who need it. That is precisely what this bill aims to achieve. Of course, this initiative does not solve the problems of people's livelihood; it requires more jobs and adequate and fair social protection. However, making edible surplus food available to those who need it would be a sensible and fair and environmentally friendly policy. Mr President! I am very pleased with this bill and with the fact that it received so many signatures. I already took the initiative last summer to reduce food waste. Now, with the representatives of the various parties, we have put this bill in motion, and it is absolutely wonderful that more than a hundred Members of Parliament have signed the initiative, and I believe that this will come before the committee. Thank you for your initiative, Mr Nurminen. Mr President! We propose that edible foods removed from the sale should be handed over to non-profit organisations for food distribution. This would apply to shops, bakeries and mass meals, such as schools and hospitals. They could also take care of the distribution themselves if they wanted to. There is already experience in Finland in the distribution of surplus food, but this distribution has so far depended on the voluntary activities of stores. Many shops have a lot of good practices to reduce losses and exploit and distribute surplus food, and these good practices could now be introduced more widely. However, I do not believe that this issue can be entirely voluntary, because even though many leading companies and establishments have developed good practices, too much edible food is still being locked up in the trash. The obligation to distribute food to the law would help to reduce food losses in shops and canteens. But it's just part of the food loss. In addition to this, each of us must take responsibility for our refrigerator and our own tray. There is little room for interference in individual behavior, but with a little awareness, planning and rational action, each of us can reduce food loss for our part. Mr President! This bill has given rise to a lot of opinions. The initiative has been commended for its important intervention and, on the other hand, for the increase in red tape. It has also been said that the initiative cannot be accepted as such. But don't worry — that's why we have Parliament to legislate and shape the laws here. In committee work, it is certainly possible to put the articles of the law in order in such a way as to maintain the purpose and aim of the initiative. In any case, it is good that the initiative has already given rise to a great deal of debate on the important issue of reducing food waste. Let the conversation continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u110	Mr President! There is no doubt that the purpose of the legislative initiative on food waste under discussion is good. I'm sure we all agree that it's against all reason to throw good edible food in the trash. However, the reduction of food waste will not be addressed by increasing regulation and obligations. The government has done a good job of deregulation, and common sense should also be borne in mind in this debate. The purpose of the bill is to oblige, among other things, municipal establishments, retailers and bakeries to hand over their edible surplus food. The bill would have no impact on household food losses, which, however, represents the largest proportion of total food waste. This information is supported by many studies that show that households dump edible food at about 24 kg per person per year. The bill states that the initiative has no significant economic impact from the point of view of central government finances. However, account must be taken of the potential costs and additional obligations and responsibilities that the law would impose on the entrepreneur, the trader. The best and most effective way to reduce all food loss is to anticipate. This applies both to households and to all commercial activities. The key is planning and volunteering. It is obvious that throwing away food that can be eaten to both the municipality, the trader and the household is an economically loss-making activity. The impact of the loss on business and its profitability is in itself an incentive to measure its purchases as accurately as possible so that the amount of waste food is kept to a minimum. In fact, the whole food chain has a role to play in reducing food losses. Practical sizes and ways in both packaging and manufacturing contribute to the preservation and resale of food. Food waste is already being reduced in many stores and municipalities. As is the case now in the future, reducing food losses must be based on voluntary action and common sense practices. In Finland, merchants and municipalities are already willing to distribute the excess foodstuffs removed from the sale to organisations that, in turn, distribute them. We should continue to encourage a reduction in the amount of waste food, but this should not be done through binding regulation. This kind of regulation would, in the worst case scenario, make the most of no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no- Such probable situations are unlikely to be pursued by this bill. Mr President! As far as food retailers are subject to binding legislation by Parliament, its starting point must be to promote the core task of selling food and not to promote its distribution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u111	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Koski spoke about this in many ways in a very sensible way. I myself asked a written question about this in the summer of last year, and I said that I was also prepared to take a legislative initiative, and I was able to get quite a lot of messages in that direction, as Mr Koski said in his speech. I myself have signed the legislative initiative by Mr Nurminen, Mr Mykkänen and the partners, but this is a good idea: whether we ultimately need this regulation or whether it can even bring the situation in a worse direction than it is at the moment. After all, in Finland, the aging food at the grocery store goes first to the alekor, and from there in very many cases the shops distribute it to bread queues, or charity. We also use this food for bioethanol, and I believe that Mr Mykkänen, among others, will continue to want the use of bioethanol to be an alternative to an ageing food which, for example, could not be distributed through charity. The voluntary road has already produced quite good results in Finland. For example, the S-Group does not currently end up in landfills. The S Group has more than 300 agreements with charitable organisations, where this division takes place quite effectively. Kesko, a merchant-driven company, also operates in the same way. In fact, Kesko explained this situation when this debate came up over a year ago, when this legislation was introduced in France, which also got into a bit of trouble there and has now moved on. Kesko cleared up its own retailers, and 118 of the 130 traders donated food waste to charity without mandatory legislation. Why didn't 12 donate? The reason was that in their municipalities or villages where the small grocery stores were, there was no suitable charity, or no partner, for this voluntary distribution of food. As Mr Koski pointed out above, and in fact someone else in this debate, we have a bigger food waste than trade in our homes. This is where we'd all have a place to look in the mirror. Fortunately, we are not yet pretending to be forced to eat at home that food should be eaten there. In fact, every Finn throws 20 to 30 kilos of edible food into the garbage at home each year, and the loss of the shop is about half, 12 to 14 kilos on an annual basis. That is why I am encouraging the committee to deal with this issue in depth, as is the case with more than one hundred Members of Parliament's legislative initiatives, also to go over these issues raised here by other Members. Of course, education is important for homes there, but also for us to find ways to reduce the size of the pack. In our often growing society of singles and two-person families, many packages are too large, and there are always a few hams left so that they are no longer edible. The second is a small way of raising awareness of what is sometimes being done: if it says in a jar or a package that the best before date has expired, then we — perhaps not as much as sometimes when we are younger, but I know that quite a few Finns — read it as if it were the last day of use, and this is not the case. But I would like to thank Mr Nurmi, Mr Mykkä and other representatives who have collected over a hundred names of this bill for good work and for the fact that this matter, which has come to the debate by a large number of parliamentarians before this bill, is now going through thoroughly. ♪ And if it doesn't ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u112	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, it is very gratifying to have such a constructive debate here. It may not always be one of the best qualities of this hall. First of all, it is quite a startling fact that as much as a quarter of the food produced in the world will end up in different parts of the chain — up to a quarter of all the food produced in the world. In Finland, too, estimates range between 330 and 460 million kilos a year, i.e. in foods that end up in different stages of life even if they are still fit for human consumption. As a number of Members have rightly said here, and as has actually been explicitly stated in the explanatory memorandum of the initiative, the trade sector is by no means the biggest part of the chain from which that edible food is going to fall into the suspense, but the biggest point is actually that of us households each in our own lives. About 300 to 400 million kilos, which in Finland is lost in vain, about 40 per cent are lost in homes and about 20 per cent are lost at the end of trade. But then, of course, if we take a factual look at what can be done about it as a society, then of course we have separate collections of bio-waste already arranged in the homes, but, as Mr Heinonen said here too, we may not be here to regulate the need to eat or dog or anything like that in order to get rid of it. In the case of trade, however, this is a relevant question as to whether society can do more proactively. Of course, the trade sector is already doing a great deal, and this debate has clearly already helped to do so, and I know that already the adoption of this initiative has already led to the work of the Working Group within the Food and Agriculture Association, and I believe that it will take the matter forward. For example, the S group here in the capital region is seeking the donation of 10 per cent of all bread that is left in the grocery store, and there are larger pilot projects. However, it is quite clear that most of the edible food that is left in the shop is, unfortunately, going down the drain at the moment. That is why I personally believe that even though I am such a liberal economist from my basic thinking, it is acceptable to give legal advice on this matter as long as we minimize the micromanagement that we are, as it were, guilty of. That is why it is important, of course, that this initiative should in any case be based on the fact that the obligation to distribute to charity is conditional, i.e. it is not the responsibility of the store to seek out and find and breed the charity that distributes it, but always, if there is an acceptable, responsible applicant coming to the door, to be prepared to hand over to him rather than to put him in the back door in the trash. That's what it's all about, isn't it? Nor will the responsibility of trade continue from the moment it has to be properly handed over. A few speakers have quite understandably argued that the path of voluntary service is always a priority, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am afraid that when chlorine bleaching was still used in the forest industry and many industrial areas were white-washed about it at the time and the smell was decent, so would it still, let alone some 30 years ago, have gone to other methods if the legislator had not come to the game. When the catalysts came, it was said that driving would cost an impossible price. Well, it didn't. What brings these together is that these are the kind of volume reforms, that it looks perhaps difficult and big in advance, but then if it starts, then the costs will go to a low level, and it will require this kind of pushing. I hope that now the committee could also consider constructively what possible limits and clarifications can be made on the basis of this initiative, but something needs to be done. There are also many other ways, such as those proposed by the grocery trade association itself. For example, could repackaging in the store be possible without making the product descriptions in the same way as the original packaging, so that it would be easier to sell such best-case food at a discount? Could tax relief provide an incentive that if a charity is given up, the store will also get more money for it than it does for waste? Is it possible, when talking about waste food that can be used for animals, to obtain more easily feed donations without having to register as feed business operators? Here are three suggestions. But, Mr President, I think that France is now legally creating a system of some kind, but I am sure that we, as a unique country in Finland, have the possibility of a much more efficient logistics and a more efficient system. Our trade organisations are already taking the ball out of this, but I believe that, with the right wording of the committee, we will also be able, as legislator, to push progress in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u113	Mr President! We're working on the basics, man needs food to live. One of the world’s biggest problems is with food: some people don’t have it, and others have too much of it, and that’s how it gets thrown into the garbage. It is estimated that one third of the food produced in the world will be thrown away — Mr Mykkänen said that it would be one quarter, as far as I know it is one third. In any case, a large number, and there is too much involved. At the same time, more than one billion people worldwide are starving, even dying. On the other hand, food waste is a lost opportunity to feed the hungry, but above all it is a waste of land, water, energy, even labour. According to the EU Commission, the food and drink value chain produces 16% of the EU's direct greenhouse gases. That is why, and for these reasons, we have to think about what we can do about it. There are many reasons for losing, and it is partly due to legislation. Some of the regulations are certainly well-founded in order to protect human health. Nevertheless, there would be no harm in using common sense. For example, food thrown into large kitchens in schools and institutions eats tax money. The surplus food is transported by expensive transport for composting with waste taxes. It would be in everyone’s interest if the leftover fully edible food could be distributed to the workers instead of compost, or offered to someone who needs it. There have been various experiments in Finland where, for example, surplus food from schools has been sold at a nominal price, for example EUR 1.5 per dose. Immediately as a side effect, a debate has begun on the distortion of competition. However, this must not be paralysed. The fact is, throwing food in the trash doesn't make any sense. Fortunately, new solutions have been found in the food waste. There have been various campaigns, new applications, where restaurants, for example, can sell excess doses for half the price of getting home instead of throwing them in the trash. Finnish legislation does not make this easier either, but the demandingness of bureaucracy exhausts and surprises many of those seeking to enter the sector. I hope that the committee will take this initiative as a matter of its own importance and therefore in its preparation and will consult widely with actors and experts on this issue. Climate change, hunger and common sense require Finnish legislation to work and make it possible. The initiative taken by representative Nurminen, together with representatives of other parties and signed by more than one hundred representatives, to reduce food waste, is to be welcomed and a very important opening-up to the legislative process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u114	Mr President! I myself have also signed this initiative and I welcome the fact that Mr Nurminen, Mr Mykkänen, and who else from the various parties has been involved, have raised this issue. Of course, I also understand the speeches that were made earlier in the debate and which stressed that it would be good to proceed on a voluntary basis. I know that many shops, for example, have already been prepared for this: for example, in my own municipality of residence, which is also a representative municipality of Nurminen, I know that all shops have been prepared to donate to charity those foods that are not sold and which have been able to help people who are in need of food aid. But I do see it — and that is why I wanted to sign it myself — that this is the way that the will is expressed that an even stronger grip is being taken on this issue. And now it is probably wise that the committee should then hear and think thoroughly about this matter and what might then be the most effective solution to promote this issue. But the objective of this is a good one, and it is great that it has received the support of the majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u115	Mr President! I warmly support this bill, which obliges municipal operators, shops, bakeries and other companies selling products to hand over or distribute edible or discarded food to non-profit third parties. I welcome the fact that this very timely and important bill on food loss raises the issue of food aid and the environmental aspect. It is wrong that at the same time as people in Finland and the world are starving and when there is food shortages in the world, we throw tons of food in the trash. There is a social and human aspect to the distribution of loser food. Free food from bread queues, shops and restaurants is not taken for fun, but specifically for need and need. Many people in line for food aid have fallen into poverty and poverty. Unemployment is the main cause of poverty and exclusion. Deep poverty is directly reflected in the deterioration of human health and nutrition: first, physical activity and medical visits are eliminated, medicines and varied food are not bought, finally there is no money even for basic foods. According to surveys, 40% of those seeking food aid are unemployed, 40% are pensioners and the rest are others. 60% of those applying for food are living alone. I find it alarming that more than one-fifth of people who are in food aid distribution have been starving constantly or quite often. Food aid does not replace our basic security gaps and is not the solution to poverty, but it is a moral and ethical decision. It is therefore very good that food waste has finally been the subject of a bill and I am in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u116	Mr President! The distribution of waste food is not easy to solve. Legislation on this issue is spread across a wide range of laws and there is no such simple solution. That is why a number of Members of the European Parliament, including myself, wanted to take action and clarify the legal possibilities for dealing with this loss. The legislative initiative under discussion is a step in the direction that society is missing and obliging, without sanctions, traders to hand over waste food for use. It is important to hear and take into account the wishes and criticisms of the industry in relation to the legislative initiative. However, this initiative is a moderate step towards a more sustainable approach. The representatives, Mr Koski and Mr Heinonen, rightly raised the issues that are the reverse. Unnecessary regulation is not anyone's wish, but I do not believe that reducing food waste is unnecessary regulation. The bill has given rise to a welcome debate, which will then continue in committee. Whatever the fate of the law, the initiative has already taken its place by reminding us all of the seriousness of the matter and encouraging operators to develop their activities in a more sustainable way. The most important message of the bill is also the consideration of disadvantaged people. Furthermore, the initiative reminds us that the consumer culture of mankind is not at present sustainable. This initiative also reminds and encourages us, as individual consumers, to pay attention to our own consumption. Mr Mykkänen raised an important point of view in my view: will things change just with good will?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u117	Mr President! First of all, I would like to comment on this point of regulation in such a way that the purpose of this is, however, the efficiency of the use of resources and also the establishment of clear rules for the distribution of this waste food at the moment, because it is being done on a voluntary basis at the moment. This also supports the Government’s circular economy objectives, which are extremely important. There is no significant cost here, although some speakers have expressed doubts about it, because the cost of waste for trade is already high. This is a matter that needs to be addressed by legislation itself. When Mr Mykkänen brought up this S Group, it must be said that only in HOK-Elanns has this issue been strongly taken forward. I would also like to thank the chairman of the parliamentary group in the delegation for a very strong message to the committee for taking the matter forward — that is, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u118	Mr President! This bill takes a position on an important issue. In Finland, food losses amount to as much as 70 kilos per person each year, and these figures are even more striking worldwide. In particular, in the current difficult economic situation, in which bread lines are unfortunately long, it is very important, both morally, economically and environmentally, that as much as possible of the food intended to be thrown away today should be taken into the hands of those in need of food aid. Of course, legislation can help to reduce losses mainly in the commercial sector. Mr Koski has just pointed out that the food industry and the shops must try to reduce food waste in other ways. For example, he took the reduction of the pack sizes, and this is certainly a necessary way, but this legislative initiative under discussion has a role to play in the debate on attitudes towards food. Of course, this bill does not solve all the problems in this area either, but it is a step in the right direction. The objective of the bill is very good, and I hope that the committee will deal with it in full seriousness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u119	Mr President! This bill is a good one. The government has done a good job in this deregulation. But I would like to take this point of view here: these hygiene passports and others, what they are now, the cops, among others, with barbecues. I faced one of these, and that official will have a lot of power when it gets there. It puts a note on the hatch if it wants to, and it's important to you. There is such fear here that these will not be added, but will be multiplied by this bill. Must the committee, now that there are hearings and these, also ask that this kind of regulation with this bill just doesn't come into small companies, among other things. Of course, these cops are on the side of these big companies but against small companies. This is what I would stress here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u120	Mr President! It has been very interesting to follow these speeches, which, on the other hand, have been quite formal once again. But the popularity of this initiative is quite easy to understand, and this initiative is quite welcome. One way in which this loss could probably be controlled by the government would be to agree on a goal and follow the loss of how that goal will be achieved. Here is a very good point of view about providing food aid, and I remember that at one point there was a boom, a lot of news that people have visited some of the dumpsters of the shops to dump food. But then at some point the shops somehow locked up those dumpsters, and then I don't know what the whole picture was. But it's just great that this... — — — — Is it okay if we talk about this place for how long? In the same way, it just occurred to me that I do not know what the shops were like when the poor were always looking for the products where the best-before date was approaching. It was always 50 per cent, but then at some point it went to 20 per cent, then to 30 per cent, and now, at least in some Alepoi in Helsinki, it's like a double discount from 21 to 23. It has a small taste of trickery, and it should be addressed just by making sense of this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u121	Mr President! I thought it might be a good idea to comment on that hygiene passport that Mr Hakkarainen raised, in so far as I am defending the existence of a hygiene passport. As well as we have fire-work cards and others, it is ensured that the food distributor or handler has certain skills and knowledge of the way in which the food is stored or processed. And here the reason is to protect human health, and I would like to point out from this Chamber that health inspectors are still needed and their work is respected. But to this waste of food itself: Everyone has their own responsibility here, and this is an easy task in that it can save the world. You don’t have to wonder at the same time whether you drive or reduce your flight due to emissions, but you can just stop throwing food in the garbage and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u122	Thank you, President-in-Office, for your good speech to Mr Tavio — but this is about edible food, and this debate has sometimes lost its focus. But at the moment, for example, when it may be advantageous for traders to break a product or put it in locked containers or dispose of it or anything else, it also wants to discuss these structures and this legislation in a comprehensive way that could make sense of it. Then I'd like to bring up these canteens. I myself have received a lot of messages from day care centres, university kitchens and others, where the buses may still be full of food at three o’clock, and in an hour everything will be put in the trash. There's also a lot of messages coming from that side. This is something that we share and that has been done together, and hopefully this will go all the way to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u123	Mr President! I would like to comment briefly on this issue of food loss for homes and individual consumers, and I am sure that these smaller sizes will be one good solution. But I also think it is important to make it easier for the consumer to recycle at all, for example, when it comes to food loss in the home. It would require innovative solutions, but it would also require concrete solutions. For example, many housing companies lack sufficient waste containers to make it easier to recycle. I would probably recycle many things more if I had enough containers in the yard of my own building company to take them to and from where they would be transported. So that is how we must make this society consumer-friendly in order to reduce this loss in all respects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u124	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Nurminen, for the comment. It is, admittedly, very good and it sees that this is a well thought-out initiative, because here you stressed that it is about the distribution of edible food. These speeches often, in other words, when we talk about food loss, become such an exciting global perspective and think that so much food is wasted in the world. I'm sure it's a problem, but it might be harder to really catch it that way. More than that, I think that the problem can now be solved through this edible food in the first steps, of course. When you think of it as if this sort of loss of food, as if it were successful, it would just go down the chain so that production would decrease, and then if that production were to decrease, you might think that the price would rise, for example, or how it could actually be distributed at a global level, because the price of its food is made up of the fact that it is being transported. That production price is not that high, it's just those sales and transport prices and these. However, there is also the point that we should go in the chain this way, that we should also want to prevent the loss of contaminated food in some way and in another way, but the point is that it should be able to achieve just that resource saving. Someone here mentioned that if we save just those production resources, then we will probably start talking about meat production, because there will then be more global effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u125	Mr President! I would also like to point out here that, in Europe, different countries have taken decisions in this House to prohibit food waste, which is by no means exceptional or unusual, so that such legislative initiatives have already been adopted in other countries. It would be interesting to know which countries in Europe or elsewhere in the world have already done this. I am sure, then, that such an explanation will come up in the committee. I remember a year ago there was a news report that was so much aggravation when France banned its food loss from trading. On the same occasion, various relief agencies told us that they would be happy to take more if they could. One such well-known food distribution organization here in Helsinki is Hurst’s bread chain, where 5,500 people visit each week for food, and they have clearly told us that they will be able to share more if they could just get more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u126	Mr. Speaker! Mr Taavitsainen asked about the experiences of other countries. In France, for example, this has been introduced. The law adopted there was much more powerful than this bill. There were strong sanctions that would not exist in this legislative initiative that we have prepared together. After all, this food legislation is terribly complex and, at the committee stage, these different views and priorities still need to be carefully considered. It is admitted that there are, of course, challenges in this area, such as distribution and so on, which still need to be addressed. Then these companies have been lifted here. Of course, we have all received feedback on this. For some companies, for example, this is now a competitive advantage, i.e. they market the fact that they use and do not give birth to waste food. But this should be seen as a comprehensive direction, with legislation pushing this issue a little further. This is something we want to draw attention to from our environmental and ecological and sustainable development policy and from the point of view of more efficient use of resources. Other experiences from the world I cannot say, but this has been prepared on the basis of the French model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u127	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u128	Mr President! My initiative to exempt small shares from tax until EUR 500 is now on the table. The red thread behind this bill is a fairer taxation for small investors and also an incentive to invest. My main policy objectives are to make Finland a more supportive and fair society. The current system is unfair because small investors pay a full tax of 25.5% on their dividends, while large investors pay lower taxes through investment companies, capitalisation agreements and insurance portfolios. It must also be borne in mind that companies have already paid 20% of their corporate tax revenue once. With the proposed tax exemption, small investors would be spared this double taxation. A tax gap has developed between small investors and a stock exchange elite, which can be corrected either by raising the taxes of a stock exchange elite or by lowering the taxation of small investors. In my legislative initiative, I have chosen the option of calculating the taxation of small investors because it is quite feasible. However, the longer-term objective should be to ensure full fairness in tax payments. In fact, during this part-session, we have discussed much about tax evasion and the prevention of tax evasion. I now hope in a positive spirit that we will have a debate on encouragement and genuine national capitalism. Indeed, it is one of the finest achievements of the present system of ownership that the average Finnish middle class can benefit the entire nation with its own savings. A significant part of Finnish wealth is currently held in bank deposits. Savings is a virtue that I appreciate. It would be desirable to direct Finnish wealth more to stock saving. A middle-class, working Finn could achieve its savings targets through stock saving, so that the social benefit would be clearly greater than saving for an account. In addition to the savings targets of small investors, the amendment that I have proposed, whereby the dividend received from a listed company is entirely tax-free if it does not exceed EUR 500 per calendar year, would benefit Finnish companies in addition to their own savings targets. Small Finnish listed companies have sometimes not been eligible for the portfolio of pension funds or other large investors because their shares are weak in liquidity. So we need small investors. Some might say that funding is not a problem at an unprecedented low level of interest, but own funding is always different from loan financing. Moreover, interest rates will not remain low forever, so what harm would it be if companies' own capital were to grow now? I don't see any harm in this. Even companies are not just standing on an account, but moving money always creates growth and investment. In April 2016, a study by Aalto University School of Business and BI Norwegian Business School in Norway reported that especially those experiencing the recession are investing more carefully than others. This phenomenon can be seen in economic decision-making up to 15 years later, even if the recession experienced has not directly affected one’s own wealth. The effect is even passed on from one generation to the next. A situation in which Finnish listed companies do not find the small investors they sorely need and, at the same time, potential investors become more cautious as a result of the long-standing general uncertainty in the economy, may become a self-sustaining negative spiral. The legislators must stop it. The amendment I propose would create an incentive mechanism to encourage more Finnish savers who are not investing in stock exchanges. It is clear that most of the new investments generated by the incentive would go to the Helsinki Stock Exchange and thus to the Finnish economy. Purchases made with the incentive to foreign exchanges would increase Finnish ownership abroad. I would like to thank the people present, the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, who, unfortunately, have not been able to attend.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u129	Mr President! This bill for the amendment of Article 33a of the Income Tax Act, drawn up by Mr Tavio, addresses an important issue. This initiative proposes an amendment to the Income Tax Act, which would make annual dividends of up to EUR 500 per year on public limited liability companies exempt from tax and impose a dividend tax only on a person exceeding that amount. A similar practice is already in force in a few EU countries. As Mr Tavio has just pointed out, this bill is, first of all, important from the point of view of equity and fairness, since more than 10% of the companies that own the stock exchange receive dividends tax-free and, on the other hand, small investors have to pay a dividend tax for every cent. Secondly, this bill would encourage Finnish individuals to invest their assets in stock exchange shares, and, as stated in the bill, most of this investment wealth would most likely be allocated to companies listed on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. As we have seen recently, domestic ownership is also important for the long-term willingness of our companies to invest and at the same time to maintain and create Finnish jobs. Regrettably, however, a large proportion of Finnish wealth is currently lying in poorly productive bank accounts and is therefore not economically optimally used, nor is it optimally invested for savers. There has been an attempt to promote this initiative in the previous parliamentary term, but it has not yet progressed into a legislative change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-26-ps-59.u130	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Savio for his speech, which shows that you have well understood the importance of this initiative, and I welcome the fact that you have also raised the importance of the Finnish work in that it would very well work in the interests of the Finnish work, when it was in the companies on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. That is why, in this context, I have used this term 'national capitalism' because it makes this capitalist system also benefit the population.
