ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u2	Mr President! Today we are dealing with the second amending budget for this year, and I would like to start with a few words about our economic situation. Last week we received unfortunate news: both Microsoft's redundancies and the possible dismantling of the Winterfell mine made us actually the black week of the economy from last week. Still, it is not worth falling into darkness or despair, and it is important to focus on the strengths that Finland is experiencing even in a difficult situation. The end of something can always be the beginning of a new one. It reminds me of the 1990s, when we lived in the era of the telecommunications revolution and in Nokia's rise, Finland's economy started to grow and we rose from such a top 30 country to a top 3 country. Now we are all standing on the threshold of the fourth industrial revolution if we are not already at the centre of it: digitalisation, robotisation, 3D printing, the industrial Internet and artificial intelligence. The ability of a Finnish engineer to manage and solve problems and rise again should never be underestimated. In other words, I strongly believe that Finland is a good country to set up new employment companies and we can do much more to make it even more profitable to try, work and create a new one in the future. We would see it from the government's side, so that we now have to get rid of the mode of cutting and move towards the mode of employment, and in that sense, too, at this very moment we are living in quite crucial times. The labour market organisations, their unions, have set their own deadline at 4 p.m., when the union round would bring the competitiveness pact to TES. If and when it is done — hopefully — at an ambitious level, these difficult decisions, then we have estimated that our employment situation will improve at least 35,000 new jobs, and that is certainly good news for all of us. The government will, of course, continue its employment policy. We are looking at action on local agreement. Reforming unemployment security, reducing the regulatory burden, reducing the employment threshold through reforms and improving the environment for entrepreneurship will create thousands more jobs. We have already told the public that in the autumn we will bring out the entrepreneurial tax package, which will certainly include payment-based VAT, an increase in the number of entrepreneurs. It also includes generational exchange and a wide range of measures. I would like to highlight one example of government measures, namely the liberalisation of trade opening conditions, which, according to the trade sector, has been a clear positive boost to our growth rates and employment in the sector. And anyway, for the first time since three years of recession, we have witnessed positive economic vibrations. Now I want to emphasise that we had a shrinking economy in 2012, 2013 and 2014, and we have a positive vibe in the economy in the sense that last year was the first year of growth, albeit a weak one, of 0.5%. This year, the Ministry of Finance estimates an increase of 0.9% in its own forecast and the Commission gives us 0.7%. I personally believe that this competitiveness pact will contribute to this year's growth. In other words, positive vibrations in the Finnish economy have been a long, long time. We must remember that the economic crisis started in 2008 through Lehman Brothers. Since then, we have strongly revived and sought to boost the economy in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Now we also have a certain wind in the international economy: the low, low value of the euro relative to the dollar, the ECB's revitalising monetary policy and, of course, the prices of raw materials. They are windy, very likely short-term, not structural in themselves. I would also like to point out that, with the recovery in economic growth, the number of employed will rise by 0.3% this year and the unemployment rate will fall slightly. So the direction is the right one, and I hope and believe that we will be able to continue along this path. Despite this positive vibration, Finland’s public finances are still in difficulty, not over and over. Our budgetary situation will improve as a result of adjustment measures, but it will still remain in deficit in the forecast for the next few years. Now, for the first time in a couple of years, we managed to reduce the general government deficit to below the 3% of GDP reference value under the EU Treaty, i.e. 2.7%, but at the same time, public debt is well above the 60% threshold, i.e. work and work at that level. So the great task of relocating debt and restoring the economy is by no means at the end of the day, and the public finances still need many, many years from now responsible care if we are to stop the growth of the debt mountain, which is a slowly heavy burden on our children. At the same time, it is of course essential that we succeed in the structural reforms that create growth. Against this background, we have drawn up an amending budget, and we have only made additions to the necessary items, as is the case with tradition, as is customary in the spring amending budget in particular. The reserve for amending the budget needs to be sufficient even in the autumn to meet any urgent needs that may arise, and this is why in the spring these purses will be kept a little tighter than usual. What's the show you have on the table today? It proposes an increase of EUR 230 million in total. This is largely due to the estimated arrival of 10,000 new asylum seekers in Finland this year, and the total allocation for reception centres was therefore more than half, approximately EUR 130 million. This increase is due to the large number of arrivals at the end of last year. In addition, it is of course proposed that the necessary increases be made to statutory social security for those who have received a residence permit. The Government also invests EUR 10 million in language testing, knowledge mapping and integration training for asylum seekers who have received a residence permit. Of course, success in integration is quite critical. In practice, we must move on to the same type of crisis mode that we had in reception last year, now on the integration side, to the roughly 30% of the applicants who stay in Finland. We have also decided to set up a special intersectoral team of chiefs of staff to consider new solutions to the key issues of this integration. President! Another major element of this amending budget is the Winterfell I mentioned at the outset and the continuation of the mine in an environmentally responsible way. It is proposed to increase the capital of Terrafame Group Oy by EUR 144 million and this additional allocation is expected to cover the operating costs of the mine until the end of the current year. At the same time, the State is preparing for a controlled closure of mining activities and the continuation of discussions in order to obtain private funding for Talvivaara. In other words, a two-step decision: to announce the closure process while continuing the debate and applying for private funding along the way. I am sure that Mr Rehn will be able to clarify this further in this debate. In this amending budget, the Government also makes a contribution to the development of family and family care. In other words, in connection with the draft amending budget, we have also submitted a proposal from the government to Parliament on this matter, and the legislative proposals for improving the possibilities of informal care are to be implemented for the rest of the year with the funding of some EUR 49 million from the state budget, i.e. more for informal care. Improving the conditions for informal and family care and increasing the form of care replaces other 24-hour care, which in turn reduces costs. A few smaller items, President, to this end: Crisis management appropriations will amount to EUR 7.4 million for operations in Iraq and the Mediterranean, EUR 4.7 million for speeding up the construction of the transport corridor at the Äänekoski bioproduct plant, and EUR 3 million for the construction of the E18 Hamina-Value gap, bringing it up to date. These increases are also possible through EU-funded TENs. The amending budget proposal also includes an earmarking of EUR 80 million from the State Housing Fund to finance the new short-term interest subsidy, which I hope will give a boost to the rental housing market. And even exports will be accelerated by promoting the entry of Finnish companies into the Astana World Fair. In turn, an increase of EUR 3.1 million is proposed in public employment and business services for the University and Microsoft EGF projects for which funding is requested from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. Looking at the revenue side, the estimate of tax revenue will be increased by EUR 156 million and the estimate of miscellaneous revenue will be increased by EUR 66 million, i.e. the net estimate of revenue will be increased accordingly by approximately EUR 222 million. Taking into account the increase in actual revenue, i.e. EUR 222 million and the appropriations included in the amending budget, EUR 455 million, the second draft amending budget for 2016 will increase the net State loan by EUR 233 million. In other words, net borrowing in 2016 is estimated at EUR 5.6 billion and the amount of central government debt by the end of 2016 is estimated to be around EUR 106 billion, which is approximately 50 per cent of GDP, i.e. on the central government side, not on the public side as a whole. In other words, after the proposed amending budget, an undivided reserve of around EUR 94 million will remain for the remainder of the year. It is not too much, given the budgetary needs that may arise at the end of the year, the development of Wintervaara and the water balance in the mining area, the development of the migration situation during the summer and the possible additional needs for the rest of the year due to last week's gloomy employment news. Here, Mr President, is a concise overview of the economic outlook and of the draft amending budget that is now under discussion in essence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u3	The introduction of the Minister of Finance should give rise to a short debate, or not so short at the moment. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u4	Mr President! As the SDP has long said, this year's amending budget and its debt-taking need for this year seems to be taking on more debt than it was last year. It is only good to note that all those parties that have spoken of debt reduction are taking on more debt this year than last year. But now, Mr President, this amending budget also comes in relation to what is happening in the labour market and we are living in crucial moments with regard to the competitiveness pact. It is an excellent thing that, at the request of a number of social partners as well as the SDP and almost the entire opposition, the government gave up four months of free work. This is a good thing and will certainly improve the conditions for a solution. But I drew attention to the fact that the Minister of Finance said that now we need to get out of the cutting mode, we need to get out of the cutting mode. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: would it be appropriate, in the light of these Microsoft news, to reconsider the cuts you have decided to make to unemployment security? We know that these will continue to chafe in the negotiations on the agreements there too. Now you should cancel the extension of the qualifying periods.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u5	Mr President! No matter how rich you are, when you don't have any money, you don't have any money. And to move forward in the future requires that all the small possibilities that exist should be used to increase activity. However, the most important issue that has already been raised in this debate with regard to previous speakers is this competitiveness pact. It gives us an opportunity, it increases predictability, it increases reliability, and if it does, then we need to think more about how we can achieve growth. All the small growth conditions that are in place, which are possible, must be put in place, and that is why all the means must be put in place after this agreement, if it succeeds, so that we have a common direction to find the seed of growth in this new situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u6	Mr President! As some kind of self-criticism, I also take it from Minister Stubb when he said that we should get rid of the operating mode. It was a welcome change in the government's line, namely that this has wasted a year, on two things: you have carried out really big cuts, many of which jeopardise domestic purchasing power and family confidence in their own future and undermine our education and future skills, and then there has been this competitiveness package, which has partially delayed the right measures to promote employment and entrepreneurship in this country, when it has only been expected and expected. Mr President! My question is: how does the government now see that employment and entrepreneurship could be promoted for the rest of the year, because there is now a need for positive signals? How can we get more investment in Finland? Do you have new plans for it? Unfortunately, even in this amending budget, the money is now going to tackle one of the previous problems, namely Winterfell, which is still going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u7	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. Indeed, the government continues to take on debt, and it is, of course, a constant concern to us. It is, of course, also good to note in the opposition, when you are constantly opposed to these cuts, that at the same time you yourself are concerned about this debt when you bring it up here. So at least we have some common concern, and that is justifiable. Yes, we have a good development compared to what it really was in 12, 13, 14. At least the trend has changed, even though the pace is still slow, so we can be satisfied with this, and this is encouraging. The Minister also pointed out the cost of immigration, which is certainly of interest to the citizens in this situation, where immigration in the form of asylum seekers was very high last year. Can you further distinguish where these costs, which you mentioned, come from?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u8	Mr President! The SDP's alternative budget took a debt of 330 million less for this year than the government has now taken in its own budget, and the difference is actually only increasing with this amending budget. Mr President! It's always about value choices. The Government takes Finland in the wrong direction with its own policy. This amending budget lacks all the elements that would increase employment. This amending budget lacks all the elements that would strengthen growth and thus strengthen the future economy and hence the future employment rate. In fact, the turnaround that the Minister of Finance spoke about is due to the 2015 budget and the additional investment in infrastructure construction and construction in general. That's how the economy is growing. This is an estimate by quite a few experts of last year's economic growth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u9	Mr President! As you listen to this debate, the feeling is that the SDP would take less debt, the Greens would take more debt, but both would spend more government money. I don't know exactly what equation this works with. An essential part of getting ahead of this cutting-edge mode is that responsibility for the state economy has now been placed in the forefront and that difficult decisions have already been made at the beginning of this parliamentary term. It's a government achievement. Of course, it has to be admitted that it is absolutely essential that this competitiveness pact, and the positive employment effects that will result from it, be realised, and I believe that there is a very broad consensus in this House. The direct impact on employment had already been estimated at 35,000 additional jobs, and if, and when it is agreed locally, some progress can be made, even more so in the future, then there will be more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u10	Mr President! There really are 90 million shares left. Minister of Finance, this was actually news when you said it was time to move away from the cut-off line. Then stand by your words and, as has been said here, give up, for example, the cuts planned for unemployment benefit. You said there would be some pressure in the fall. We are disappointed that this amending budget still did not give any euro to deal with the acute unemployment situation. The start-up money has run out, the pay subsidies are running out — the employment budget should have been increased. They didn't come. In the autumn's additional budget, how can you at the same time prepare for additional funding for Winterfell, other unexpected expenses, if you continue to hold onto that too tight framework? It is difficult to avoid surgery in that situation, but I am very encouraging to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u11	Mr President! Yes, it is very important to see the big picture of the Finnish economy now. I do not think that this little opposition policy will take any further Finland. Now is the time to agree, now is really the time to agree between the social partners, when the government is also involved, on the kind of competitiveness that restores faith in the Finnish economy. The lack of confidence is the worst of economic deficits. This competitiveness pact has already restored confidence at this stage, and now it is time to bring this to a conclusion. Interest groups also have their own central responsibility, as we do here in Parliament. Now leave that to the opposition Liturgist for less, see the big picture. Let us all support the agreement on a social contract, create confidence in the Finnish economy and continue to do so, as Mr Kalli said, through reforms to improve employment and thus truly safeguard Finnish well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u12	Mr President! If you look at who has tried to promote harmony in society and what has not, I have noticed that the greatest criticism of this competitiveness pact has come from a line of government parties — perhaps you do not need to name names separately. It seems that all the government's efforts to date have just thrown sand into the path of this competitiveness pact. Today we received the first good news when the government gave up this four-month free work which was opposed here in the opposition. It was precisely on the basis that it was good for the government to give up, that I believe that the chances of reaching an agreement are better. But with regard to these operations, now I became more confused. The Minister of Finance said that we need to get out of the operating mode, and the group chairmen of the government parties were still glowing here. I ask the Minister for Finance whether you are now prepared to give up unemployment benefit cuts, and what is the government's tax line on this competitiveness pact? What is the tax line today, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u13	Värderade Talman! Det är klart att vi är i en besvärlig situation och vi behöver göra allt för att lyfta Finland, men det verkar som om regeringen skulle ha glömt bort att vi för TVå månader sedan haden traktormarsch till Senaztorget, och i den raus tillagsbudgeten hade man nu haft öjlighet att åtgärda jordbruket och komma med några smtttnader till de finska jordbrukarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u14	Mr President! Mr Henrikson has made a good speech. Mr Kalli called for measures and measures for economic growth, and that is good, but it also requires measures. Through digitalisation, Finland could almost double the long-term growth expectations of GDP from less than 1.8% today to around 1.8%. This impact of digitalisation on jobs would also be significant, but Finland should invest more in the internationalisation of SMEs. We have products and know-how to raise Finland's business life and exports when we just do things right. My question is: what are the concrete steps taken by the government to promote the potential of digitalisation and, in particular, to internationalise SMEs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u15	Mr President! A little confused I listened to the beginning of this debate when the last year has been heard in this Chamber that the opposition is crying out, that we must abandon the line of cuts and move on to the line of employment, and now that the Minister of Finance is telling us that the line of cuts is more focused on the line of employment, it seems that this is not going to happen either. But I am actually asking the Minister for Finance when you said that there will be little allocation for the rest of the year: is it possible that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u16	Mr President! I believe that most people in this Chamber want to reform Finland and find a new way of growth, but there are quite different views on how it can be achieved. I see as a positive contribution to this that Mr Stubb said that cutting mode should be removed because cuttings do not create growth. I believe that this is a matter which, however, is recognised here by most people on the right side of the Chamber, so it cannot be just a central policy objective. It can also put growth at risk because it undermines domestic purchasing power and people's livelihoods. Then the government needs to think about how we can make ordinary people feel safe to spend and survive in their everyday lives, be confident about the future of work, and then invest in Finland as well. Here I am concerned that if the government now implements, for example, this increase in day care fees, which you are planning to do, it will lead middle- and low-income women home more and more and can even lower the employment rate. Are you also prepared, in the name of employment, to withdraw this proposal, which is in Parliament, so that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u17	Mr President! I would have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: now that last week we heard the news that Fortum is buying Ekokem and that almost 200 million will come into the treasury of the state, is there now a lack of faith in the EU, which requires all its Member States to allocate extraordinary income to the payment of government debt, or is it now the moment that this income could be used to internationalise those SMEs, to bring different opportunities and instruments to create a more employable and industrialist policy? Yes, I would like to ask Mr Satos — perhaps the answer will come personally — how, in those areas where there is a huge number of part-time workers, the fact that working time is longer than three days, can increase employment and the number of people employed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u18	I will give four more replies, and then the ministerial table will draw lots, which will then take its turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u19	Mr President! Firstly, what Mr Lindtman said here: if you listened to what I said, then I said that this government has made the right choice. You can answer Mrs Myllykoski that it is obvious to me that all Finns are involved in this. I am sure there will be a solution at the table that will enable these part-time people to get into that situation. It is the service workers who win in it. If the competitiveness of Finnish work is now improved, exports are going to withdraw and more money will come to us here in the national economy, so many people will get new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u20	Mr President! The Minister of Finance is certainly right in saying that there are many kinds of signs in the sky of the economy, but there are also bright signs, small ones, but nevertheless. But we're already on the plus side. The keys now have this competitiveness pact, the Y.N.S. by another name, and it is a place of proof for a bit of everyone in our decision-making field that Finland is able to settle matters of great importance to itself at a low cost. It is the place of the display, of course, even if it can then still be influenced in order to increase the number of suitable tax solutions. It must be seen that solving this situation is in the hands of Finnish decision-makers and only in their own hands. It will then gradually lead to a real shift from cutting mode to employment policy and vice versa.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u21	Mr President! First of all, these cuts, which have been decided, will gradually come into force and, in the spending limits decision, the government increased these cuts by 400 million, cutting the purchasing power of the very weakest people by cutting these benefits. That this is not the way it is now that the cuts are going to end like this, but that they will continue to come into force during the parliamentary term. But, Mr President, we have the cost of unemployment of more than 5 billion a year, and there are a lot of hard-working people out there, people in work who are also waiting for jobs for these people who are unemployed. We have 16,000 people waiting for start-up money or pay subsidies to get jobs — jobs there are. Would it not be worth the burden of these hardworking people, from the point of view of this unemployed person, to be poured out in such a way as to get more money there? I would have assumed that there would have been a significant increase in the extra budget for this side of the budget. There are 16,000 unemployed people who could get a job right away, with an increase in pay subsidies and start-up money, and this could help relieve the current pressure on these hardworking taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u22	Now, Mr Terho, then Minister, and then we will extend this debate from party and group leader to more representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u23	Mr President! Indeed, it is good to note in this criticism of the opposition that the usual inconsistency is again very strongly involved: firstly, there is criticism of the fact that cuts have been made. Then it is criticized that there are no cuts or debts. This is how you create this kind of review, a vending machine that ensures that you can always complain about anything done or not done. But it is quite the correct observation, as Mrs Rinne pointed out, that the decision to cut has now been taken in a forward-looking way. It means that we can now move out of the operating mode. It is precisely because of this that you were wondering — or perhaps your group leader was wondering earlier — why, even though so many cuts have been made, debt is still being taken into account: decisions have been taken and decisions will gradually come into force, so that at the end of the parliamentary term we can achieve a balance between debt and debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u24	Secretary Stubb, two minutes. Since there are so many of you, two minutes per minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u26	Secretary Rehn, two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u27	Mr President! Thank you for a constructive, substantive debate. With regard to Terrafame and Winterfell, the government received a very heavy inheritance, and it may be well to remember that all the parties represented in this Chamber have been in turn managing this rather challenging mining project. The government has had three criteria for dealing with this Terrafame issue: firstly, environmental safety, which takes precedence over everything; secondly, the regional economy and employment in Kainuu; and thirdly, the responsible use of tax resources. It was because of environmental safety that we decided to continue mining on behalf of the Terrafame Group last summer, and now, of course, we have to assess what is happening at the moment. The operation of the mine has started well, in fact better than expected, for which we should thank the mine's management and personnel. On the other hand, the price of nickel has fallen even worse, into a worse pit, and the temporary nature of environmental permits has also led to the suspension of promising negotiations with private investors. That is why last week the government decided responsibly in the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy and now in this amending budget to prepare for the orderly closure of the mine. The transitional period will run until the end of this year and will continue negotiations with potential private investors. In addition, structural change measures will also be prepared for the regional economy and employment in Kainuu. As far as the competitiveness pact is concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u28	Thank you, and now Minister Orpo, 2 minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u29	Mr President! This amending budget represents 130 million for reception costs. This is going to raise the pot to $420 million for the whole year. It is a large amount of money, as has been known all along — 35,000 asylum seekers since the beginning of last year — but now we have already turned to a situation where rapid decisions are taking place and this capacity has been dismantled. Decisions have now been taken to reduce more than 10,000 accommodations, and we will end dozens of reception centres. Of course, this has to be done because applications have been processed, some end up being returned, and others then move on, hopefully to municipal places. Interestingly, it may be a phenomenon to note that when we remember different kinds of protests and concerns about the establishment of reception centres in the localities in the autumn, I now get almost daily contacts and petitions about these reception centres being held open in different parts of Finland. They have been perceived as good and refreshing, life - bringing. So this is how this world changes, and that's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u30	Mr President! It is good to give work peace in order to complete the competitiveness package. It is an important piece of the process of restoring our economy and getting jobs. Mr Rehn made a good point on these matters relating to Terrafame, and I would really like to be so specific as to ask: is this 144 million now part of the 300 million or 500 million that the controlled shutdown will require, or is this still on top of it? This proposal also proposes significant additional funding for another mine. A bankrupt Canadian company, or its Finnish subsidiary, requires money. The company has been operating in Finland for 20 years and has mined and exported property from here, and now the Finnish people are responsible for the bankruptcy of the subsidiary. Would it be possible, Minister Rehn, to consider a type of oil fund model, where these are:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u31	Mr President! I would like to thank you for your speech and say that we are now beginning to be on a beach in this society to ask whether the responsibilities we have can be met. I am really concerned about this employment situation, and I very much regret that it has not been addressed in this amending budget. In that regard, it is also feared that these government balloons will very much lead to the risk that the competitiveness pact will also be put at risk. You still have not told us, Minister of Finance, whether there will be tax relief as you have promised, and now we are in a situation where these balls that have been put in the air should be brought to the finish line. I also call for no new action to be taken on training, for example in the form of conversion training in the case of Nokia, when seeking the next route for those who have been made redundant. That is why I ask, Minister of Finance: why not?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u32	Mr President! Again, a few people may wonder about this debate there, and perhaps there may be some of these 350,000 family carers in Finland who will also enjoy the additions made in this amending budget. I would like to point this out because this is not just an operation, the work of this government, until now. This draft amending budget therefore includes last week's legislative proposals for amendments to the laws on family and family care. These investments in family and family care are the most significant reform of social welfare services during this term of government and much greater than the total amount that the previous government was able to do in the form of, among other things, the Act on Elderly Services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u33	Mr President! First of all, as a comment on the closures of the reception centres, I do not believe that the people are opposed to their closure, but precisely those who have done profitable business with them. It is proposed that EUR 800000 be transferred from the police's operational expenditure to Migri's operational expenditure. This is unacceptable to the police, who are actually operating in a changed environment. If this sum is one of the reasons for Migri's relocation from the police, then I can somehow understand that, otherwise I will not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u34	Mr President! The amending budget is always, of course, complementary to the actual budget, but this too continues on the unfortunate line that debt continues and more is needed for debt money. Of course, it is good, as the Minister has said here, that we are running out of operating lists. Yes, this has certainly been taken away from families with children, sick people and the elderly. However, it has been suggested here, both on the part of the opposition and the government, that the momentum must now be given, above all, to promoting entrepreneurship and promoting employment. There is one group of entrepreneurs to whom the government seems to show no sympathy, and it is farmers. Here Mr Henriksson has already asked where is the aid package for farmers who are currently in great distress. In Upper Savo, electricity is shut down from farms, among other things. It would be very important to have it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u35	Mr President! As for the biggest steak in this second amending budget, Winterfell, the government is barking up the wrong tree. The administrative court of Vaasa is not responsible for the fact that the Talvivaara mine has not been able to solve its water balance problem or make its own operations viable. If someone is unable to act within the limits of the law, it cannot go to the judiciary to prosecute. The judiciary will ensure that the environmental legislation laid down by our parliamentarians is complied with. Let's give him some time to work. And the real question for the Minister of Industry: is this 200 million-euro water treatment plant not also needed during the mine's winding-up phase? And what is the basis of this spark of hope that the mine could operate profitably on market terms and discharge its environmental responsibility? And last question: how can we be sure that this EUR 144 million
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u36	In response to this speech, I will give the floor to Minister Rehn once Mr Zyskowicz has spoken in response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u37	Mr President! Researchers in Europe are studying right-wing populism and left-wing populism. There is a need to study green populism in Finland. But a more relevant question: when you, Mr Niinistö, and your party, and even the media, repeat that you would have an alternative to government savings, now that the government has decided to save some 4,000 million at the 2019 level, could you please tell us, Mr Niinistö, what your alternative savings of EUR 4000 million are? At this point, I am satisfied if you list five or, say, ten of the biggest savings targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u38	Reply, Minister Rehn, a few minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u39	Mr President! Referring, among other things, to the speeches made by Mr Aalto regarding the administrative court of Vaasa: I have not accused anyone, least of the judiciary. I am very concerned that the rule of law in Finland is not working properly. But instead, there are all grounds for assessing the consequences of different decisions. Even as a result of this decision, these promising negotiations were interrupted at the time with private investors because no private investor is prepared to invest in any major mining project or other business project if the authorisation is limited to a limited period. This is an objective fact, it is not a question of making accusations. Regarding the question of a possible water treatment plant of EUR 200 million: We do not know at the moment what the costs of either closing down the government or possible continuation of activities would be in terms of how environmental impact assessment and environmental authorisation will be determined. In other words, this is known at the time when the environmental impact assessment has been carried out, which is done for both options. Then we will see what both the controlled closure and the continuation of the mine would require from this point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u40	Mr President! First of all, to Minister Rehn from Winterfell: I would like to see, however, that these formulations, which you used in relation to the decision of the Vaasa Administrative Court, did not follow the good manners of the Minister in this situation. You spoke of 'killing the discussions and the negotiations' and that, contrary to expectations, the permit would have somehow deviated from what was to be expected, and there has been a strategic error on the part of the government, because at least I myself have been warning for a couple of years that the demolition pipeline project will also be subject to strict environmental criteria and control and it is unlikely that the project will be able to put this environmental responsibility issue in place. So it might have been more sensible to think about better environmental solutions from the outset, such as the construction of a sewage treatment plant in its area so that these sulphate emissions do not occur. Then we would not be in this situation if we had found solutions to protect the environment all the time instead of good overall solutions. That is unfortunate, it cannot be blamed on any individual person, but the fact that this decision was a surprise is not true. Then I would like to reply to Mr Zyskowicz, but perhaps, Mr President, it will remain in the next reply, because the minute is full.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u42	Mr President! Today, the Committee on Finance started a proactive consultation and the long reports on Winterfell were listened to. The question arises as to what is behind the government's policy. It has been heard that the decision of Vaasa has been appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. It takes between 1.5 and 2 years. During this period, the situation continues that no external funding is available. As has just been said, this is not possible in this situation and, on the other hand, it is one condition. On the other hand, it has been found that the costs for this year do not necessarily fall to this figure of 144 million. In any case, it has been stated in the expert consultation that if it were to continue the operation, it would cost between 80 and 120 million to complete the run-off after the turn of the year and would be based on a rather high price of nickel. If the price of nickel is between EUR 7000 and EUR 8000,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u43	And on the spot, Minister, 1 minute, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u44	Mr President! That is where Mr Niinistö spoke. I agree that these points should have been noted in time, for example during the previous government. After all, the Greens had quite a strong representation in the last government in terms of both environmental issues and corporate governance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u46	Mr President! Indeed, the Committee on Finance opened a hearing on the Terrafame issue in Winterfell today. The question is, which is better: the end of Winterfell production with hundreds of millions of stakes or the end of the road with hundreds of millions of stakes? At least I see and understand that in Finnish society the starting point is that we are promoting extractive activities, industries, thereby creating jobs. All in all, we are talking about a thousand jobs in Winterfell. Of course, this is a national environmental disaster, which has happened, but this mess must be cleaned up, and it is not going to take this matter further. Fortunately, the government is determined to operate within the framework in which it can operate and, of course, the starting point must be in the future that if that activity could work in a profitable way for the environment and the economy, it would be in the interests of the Finns, in the interest of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u47	Mr President! I am sure that in this Chamber we will widely share the view that achieving a competitiveness pact comprehensively is an important issue both for the economy, for employment and for our survival, and now this misconception in the negotiations on the alliance has taken off very well and there is hope that we will reach a goal, for a number of reasons, including employment. But I hope — and I believe — that, when this solution is reached, we too in this Chamber will be able to appreciate the responsibility that the contractual society has assumed, because this will be the most important economic and employment policy action of this term of government. Turning from cutting policy to employment policy, I would like to see the government, when it has promised to prepare new employment measures by the time of the budget debate, taking account of this most serious issue, and that is the fact that we have 121,000 long-term unemployed. This program, what is needed If the President will allow me, I would like to compliment the Minister: I think that Mr Rehn has been very responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u52	Mr President! In this case of Terrafame, it is also good to remember something that has not been pointed out here that the ore reserve is estimated to be 60 years long, so that it will last for a very long time if it is able to function there, and the environmental aspect keeps it in mind, of course. But as Mr Rossi, for example, said, it costs money both to get off and to get off, but this long-term advantage seems to be somewhat forgotten. I would like to thank you for this free development of family and family carers and for the fact that there is an appropriation for this supplementary budget. It is a big thing, and it is of national importance, but it is a matter of particular human importance. Finally, I would like to say that today we have received a Government announcement stating that the Committee on Economic Policy is in favour of funding the Tampere Multipurpose Area. It's a project that employs 3500 people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u53	Mr. Speaker! We are in a historic situation, and there is a budding turn of events after eight lean years. Now we need to be patient in this delicate situation. But my point is: Winterfell is not only a great tragedy, but Winterfell has also ruined the reputation of the entire mining industry. However, the mining industry would have to employ the future industry in many ways, but because of Winterfell, this industry is now so vulnerable. What, Mr Rehn, could the State do to promote this reputation and strengthen faith in the mining industry? I would also like an answer in relation to the plight of agriculture which Mr Essayah and Mr Henriksson have raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u54	Mr President! The problem has been that the government's cutting mode has been so passionate that it has contributed to the threat of growth and employment, and that employment mode should have been a year ago and not wasted the past year. Now that we have, President, in our hands this competitiveness pact, the government must, by its own actions at the latest, ensure that this agreement is in place. That is why, President, it is good that the government gave up this crazy four-month free work project. But here, Minister Stubb did not answer the question whether, now that the cutting mode is over, you are going to cancel the other disadvantages of unemployment security, and what is your tax line in relation to this competitiveness pact? It is important, President-in-Office, that the government should act on its own to ensure that a competitiveness pact can be concluded. Therefore, these questions are:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u55	Mr President! Fortunately, in spite of these challenges, we can see that there is a tendency towards cutting down on the road to growth. Thanks to these adjustment measures, we can say that the national economy is on a slight upward trend and, however, the growth of public debt relative to GDP is slowing down in the coming years. Despite these surgeries, we have wanted to invest in family and family care. I think there's a lot of value in this one. Otherwise, this government has now been able to reform and experiment, and digitalisation is one of the things I want to raise. Now, by completing broadband, this amending budget makes it possible for digitalisation to really come to serve the country as a whole, the availability and smoothness of services throughout the country will be maintained or improved. I'm sure Secretary Rehn would know better about his schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u56	Mr President! When you listen to the opposition, you feel that if we listen to the opposition, Finland will flourish. But, hey, the opposition was in the government just a little while ago, and there were more unemployed people, so the credibility of the opposition's speeches is very weak. It is important to hold on to domestic food. In international comparison, the purity of Finnish food is very high. The government is aware of the plight of farmers, and I too have been very much asked about this. This crisis package for agriculture is now moving into the autumn amending budget, and I would like to ask the ministers of value: what was the reason for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u57	Mr President! Maybe that Winterfell is overshadowed by Microsoft Mobile ending in Tampere. Of course it is a serious situation, but we need to think about what we can use in the future. Here the Minister of Finance referred to this profitability trap, but that know-how is in these people. Perhaps we learn that we should not put eggs in one basket, that we should have a wider business structure and education and research involved. The Tampere 3 project is perhaps good in this regard. We have a strong bioeconomy – now, for example, the Millennium Prize was awarded to Biochemist Frances Arnold. On the other hand, we also have the opportunity to sell IT services, as we read yesterday in the news that even in Asia our IT services are successful. And above all, we still have an online store. In Central Finland, among other things, there is a small company that sells parts of snowmobiles online for millions of dollars to the world, in a segmented industry. Actually, I would have asked about this in general,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u58	Mr President! Here, in particular, representatives of Lindtman, Niinistö and Uotila, in my opinion, deliberately misunderstood the message of the Minister of Finance. It does not go so far as to say that, when we take out EUR 15 million every day and the debt ratio is rising to 65 % in any case, we could, as it were, open up the bars and take more, but the question is that now that we are squeezing and squeezing the social pact in the end, we will put things in a little better shape in unemployment security and away from it, we may have the circumstances that may be that employment is starting to rise and then we will no longer have to make such painful cuts. This is the marching order. The Minister here also used as a good example the fact that we still have earnings-related unemployment benefit that can pass and, as it were, cause skills to be acidified, because it is not worth taking up a job during that time. The most important start-up grant would be to be able to use a earnings-related start-up grant, a pay subsidy, for the whole amount. I would like to ask both ministers: what can be done about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u59	Mr President! Today we read in the paper that the German Government has allocated at least EUR 100 million to German milk producers. Several representatives have now asked what our government is going to do. There have been rumours in public that such a 48 million crisis package would be in preparation, but that it will be moved to autumn. If it is moved to autumn, it means that after its decision it should negotiate with the producer organisation, prepare legislation, prepare regulations, even change the Finnish agricultural programme in Brussels. So the result: nothing for farmers this year. Is that a government message? Is that a government message? Nothing for farmers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u60	Finally, the replies to this stage of the debate are to the representatives of Ojala-Niemelä, Järvinen, Anttila, and here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u61	Mr President! The positive point is that the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, has announced that the government will abandon this separate work sample, in line with the wishes of the SDP. Yes, it can be said that this is humiliating the unemployed, and I welcome the fact that this is abandoned. But I was concerned, as many others in this House did, that there would be no additional investment in employment but, on the contrary, that the treatment of unemployment would be neglected. Now it is all up to one card whether or not this competitiveness pact will come about. It is a difficult solution, but it talks about weakening people's working conditions. The other side was these tax cuts and the cancellation of cuts, and I ask you, Mr Stubb, are you a man of your word and will you carry out these promises?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u62	Mr President! I have to go back to Winterfell for a while. It is clear that the whole hall is worried about Kainuu jobs, but it is easier to replace Kainuu jobs than the nature of Kainuu if we ruin it badly at first. And, unfortunately, this has already happened in part. When the Greens were in the government last season, environmental legislation was respected and, if Minister Rehn remembers, the Greens were removed from the government for a good while before the end of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u65	Mr President! It is very easy to agree with what has been said here about obtaining a competitiveness pact. At the same time, not only is it very necessary, but it also preserves our contractual society. I, too, would intervene in a few words in this sad agricultural situation. The truth is that the Russian sanctions combined with the fall in trade have resulted in the farmer's livelihood being extremely unprofitable. Against this background, a large number of farmers gathered in the Senate Square and were confronted by government ministers: the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance and also the Minister for Agriculture. Then there was the thought and hope that their distress will be met, and now I really appeal that this matter will also be dealt with. If it really moves into the autumn, too many farms will go bankrupt during that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u68	Now Minister Stubb, 2 minutes off the ground, and Minister Rehn, apparently 1 minute off the ground.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u69	Mr President! At this stage, I may be addressing two issues which were asked more precisely. The first is taxation and the competitiveness pact. After all, the Government Programme states that if public finances are strengthened by 0.5%, or roughly EUR 2 billion, then the government will receive a billion-euro tax relief. Our march order is now that we are waiting for the outcome of the negotiations and from that moment on in the Ministry of Finance, we are calculating the overall assessment of the impact on public finances, which will have an impact on GDP growth, and that is why we are doing the calculations on the tax side. I believe there will be tax reductions, but it is not possible to say how much they are worth at the moment, because we do not know exactly how much competitiveness will affect the public economy. Another specific question, which I think came up with on five or six questions, was very timely and good, related to agriculture. The first point is that in the spending limits decision we agreed on a one-off subsidy of EUR 34 million for agriculture. Of course, this is not enough, but hopefully it will ease the pain in this difficult situation. I believe that our agriculture is not just in a difficult situation with Russian sanctions, but is a much more complex one. In the context of the amending budget, we agreed that we will return to this crisis package during the autumn and before that we will find out what kind of aid we can still receive from the European Union at this stage, and at the same time we will try to take action that will deregulate the agricultural sector, because it is a highly standardised sector. As the former Minister of Agriculture Sirkka-Liisa Anttila well said, it is the entrepreneurs who are doing 12, 14, 16 hours and who are living at the very least at the moment. We strive to do all we can to achieve it, including by other means, that some kind of relief will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u70	Now, Minister Rehn, 1 minute off the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u71	President! As Mr Alatalo said, and to which representatives Rossi and Kiuru and Ihalainen also referred, the Finnish economy is undergoing structural change at the moment. In the future, the Finnish economy will be much more diverse than before, and it will already be so at the moment. Creative sectors, ict services, cleantech, bioeconomy, sustainable, green economy in general will form an increasingly significant part of Finland's economy. The extractive industry is part of the complex as long as it is a sustainable extractive industry, and that is why the government is particularly concerned about environmental safety in Terrafame. With regard to agriculture: As Minister Stubb said, the government is deeply concerned about the profitability of Finnish agriculture. We take measures, and clean Finnish food must definitely be seen as a resource for the Finnish economy as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u72	We'll be back for a while, not very long now, this debut. We shall now proceed to the actual speeches. I will give you a few more comments, first Mrs Harakka, then Mr Laukkanen, then Mr Hoskonen and that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u73	Mr President! A few questions about Winterfell: Employment is an extremely important issue, especially in Kainuu, where too many people are out of work, but so is nature. In order for Winterfell to be profitable, it should increase its current production. In the bio-dissolving process, 1 tonne of nickel produces a multiple of several hazardous waste materials. It's very difficult to control the waters. According to one estimate, a profitable mine would need a new gypsum sink every two years. I mean, the more productive the mine, the higher the load on the environment. If we want Terrafame to be employable and profitable, we must respond to this environmental challenge. How? There was one question on which we asked the government for an impartial explanation, but we did not get it. What is Minister Rehn's view on this issue would be good to hear. It was in the Committee on Finance that we heard that the Terrafame Group has commissioned a technical study of its activities. It is clear that the committee must have access to all the Government working documents,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u74	Mr President! The answers of the ministers in relation to this plight of agriculture and farmers are certainly not satisfactory. At the beginning of April they were here to tell us what they needed; now we are going to go to June, and the answer is that in August-September we may bring some new views to this. With this thinking that administrative tinkering there could fill the farmer’s own stomach, the situation is rather corny. At present, the fields are wet with sweat and the tears of farmers, because what belongs to them does not even seem to be on their way in any way. This is quite inconceivable that a centre-driven government can do this. Your own lobby around the opposition parties, asking us for help, could we do something to change the situation? This is unheard of, and I wonder, and I ask: does not the conscience of this situation weigh at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u75	Mr President! It is good that we are currently living in the times that are actually happening. The first signs of economic growth have already taken place, and we should do our best to promote this situation, which is something that the Finnish Parliament can do. That is why a competitiveness pact must be reached, and precisely so that it is as comprehensively involved as possible in all associations. It is absolutely essential that we make foreign trade work. At the moment we are living in Finland in a situation where only the forest industry seems to be doing very well, but there are difficulties in exporting in all other areas of trade — this harsh language is told by all export statistics. That is why it is essential that we really get unemployment down, because that is how we really get the state finances into control, because the EUR 5 billion that is the annual cost of unemployment is a huge sum. And by contributing to it, by providing people with jobs, we will be able to influence the state of government finances and, above all, to create good ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u76	Mr President! The Minister of Finance said that we need to move from the operating line. I sincerely hope that this is a new government line, but it is worth remembering that the cuts made at the beginning of the parliamentary term will affect the whole parliamentary term. In other words, the cuts that are made, for example, in knowledge, education and so on, will affect our entire future. This should be borne in mind when talking about such a change of line. And it is also a great pity that the government has not increased the employment budget enough — or, in fact, not a single one that is targeted. Doesn't the government believe in labour policy? The public sector has to come to the rescue when people want a job. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u77	Mr President! I think it's great that the government has made the debt fold.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u78	Mr President! There's always three waves in the depression. First the economy stalls, then unemployment starts to rise, but when these two begin to improve, the social recession will remain. If you look at the government's own economic and employment forecasts, they tell you that even if we have positive developments in employment, which so far has not been very much the case, long-term unemployment will increase. And the great concern is that this increase in long-term unemployment will be left with a very expensive economic social wave and very heavy humanely. I therefore hope that the government will seriously consider the additional instruments to tackle long-term unemployment in the autumn budget debate. One instrument that would now serve these places of restructuring, such as repairing the tracks of Microsoft or Terrafame and Winterfell, would be, for example, to facilitate the criteria for self-training. It would make it possible to train instead of being unemployed. When the Minister of Finance used the example of a person,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u81	Mr President! I share the concern expressed in this debate about the difficult situation in agriculture. In fact, it is one of the professional groups that has been hit directly by international politics. Large, significant export areas are now not possible, and hundreds of millions of euros cannot be sufficiently compensated by EU or national aid packages, so the only thing that remains is to have a new export market. Of course, they should be obtained terribly quickly. Of course, an online grocery store in Asia is something that Finland, as a high-tech country, should have access to. But there are some good things. There has been quite a negative talk here about the economy, and that, of course, always belongs to the opposition. But I personally believe that a small turn is about to take place. Well, our GDP turns to plus, even though it's just a small plus, but it's better than that minus-mark thing. I would have asked Mr Rehn again: how optimistic are you with regard to the continuation of these Winterfell negotiations with the various investors?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u82	And then the reply to the representatives of Meri and Mäkisalo-Ropponen, then to Minister Rehn a minute's reply and then a few minutes' closing remarks to the Minister for Finance. If there is still something absolutely necessary to be debated, leave a reservation there. In principle, we shall move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u83	Mr President! A few things. I do not wish to go back to these unfortunate debates and accusations, but I would like to correct what has been said here about cancelling this four-month free work: Mr Lindström told us about this work sample, which was voluntary, and it sought different models with the social partners. He told me they'd cancel it if it didn't seem to work. I think it's a good idea to find ways. When people are screaming for employment, I'm yelling too. All I wanted now was for us to stop using these wrong terms. What is great is that in this development of informal care and family care, sufficient funds have been earmarked for municipalities. As a municipal politician, too, one can often be concerned because the central government shares of municipalities have decreased in recent years and yet strict budgetary discipline is required to avoid being subjected to a deficit procedure, i.e. this municipal merger investigation. Finally, I would like to say that, when I sit in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and there has been talk of taking on more debt, for example, there is also the fact that we are not now eating the future and the welfare society. We've got to keep it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u84	Mr President! Unfortunately, long-term unemployment has continued to grow: 17,000 more long-term unemployed than one year ago. We therefore need a comprehensive programme to combat long-term unemployment, as Mr Ihalainen said before. I have had the opportunity to monitor the citizens' committees of long-term unemployed in which the long-term unemployed assess the services they receive. The customer committee gave particularly critical feedback on the activities of the TE Offices. They said no answer to the phone, the websites are difficult to use and the personal appointment time is simply not available. But the employees of your offices also communicate the same kind of distress. Resources are so poor that they are not even able to carry out their tasks satisfactorily. Even young people have to wait for the first meeting with an expert from six months to a year. Young people should not be kept waiting, because we know that for four months
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u85	And now, Minister Rehn, 1 minute off the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u86	President! With regard to Mr Haraka's question, the government is prepared to keep Parliament and the relevant committees fully informed, in particular the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Finance. We are well aware of this situation at the moment — this is also the answer to Mr Heinonen's earlier question. When we look at the gross costs, they are this EUR 144 million in the closure option, which is budgeted here at a later stage of 162, and the sale of metals will be 167, which is currently estimated at current prices of nickel, i.e. a gross cost estimate of EUR 473 million, and net it will be slightly over EUR 300 million, i.e. EUR 144 plus 162, and possibly on top of this water treatment plant. To Mr Filatov's comment, on the question of long-term unemployment, I would simply say that precisely because we are able to halt the growth of long-term unemployment and improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production, we need a competitiveness pact. That is why I appeal to all parties to draw this final straight line in such a way that it really is achieved and that it is possible to improve the conditions for sustainable growth and the creation of new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u87	Following Mr Rehn's speech, two speakers have been asked to speak and I will give them, that is to say, to Harakka and Rossi, and then to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u88	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. However, you did not answer this question that I asked: can the committee have access to the Prime Minister's decision-making documents, memos and reports, including, for example, the technical study that Terrafame has just commissioned, so that we can make this decision of hundreds of millions of euros with the appropriate information? Perhaps a good example of this is the figures just presented by the Minister, in which he presented a EUR 167 million estimate for the sale of Terrafame metals. It has been calculated at EUR 1000 at a higher price than what is now a fact. In other words, this already creates a difference of EUR 20 million between that estimate and today. This reflects the fact that we must have the appropriate and best papers, so I will renew the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u89	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Filatov. Indeed, your speech and approach to long-term unemployment after the recession or recession were also touching, because many of us also remember the situation during the 1990s when the wave of bankruptcy, unemployment, followed by increased social inequality and the problems are still partly in Finnish society today. This is a very big problem, which Mr Rehn also referred to in his own speech: Of course, the government is currently working on how we can reform Finnish structures, how we can increase employment, entrepreneurship, the Finnish economy to a better place. All those figures mentioned earlier by Mr Kankaanniemi were, of course, simple things to tell, well calculated, but they were facts, and it tells us that if the Finnish economy and our system cannot be reformed, then we will be born.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u90	Minister of Finance Stubb, about 2 minutes — you can choose the place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u91	Mr President! According to a short formula, the basic line of our economic policy is actually made up of five entities, which have been touched on in many ways in this Chamber today. The first is the folding of debt. That is what we are aiming for by 2019. But of course there are many other things involved: the employment situation is one of them, tax policy is of course another, and the third is the way in which we can move forward with our objective of overall adjustment. The second cornerstone is of course employment policy — many of them were involved in long-term unemployment. So the situation is that we have a 52-week increase in unemployment. If our aim is to raise the employment rate from 68 to 72, that would be done by reducing unemployment in us to 36 weeks. That would be the best solution from the point of view of our deleveraging, from the point of view of our employment and from the point of view of the economy as a whole. The rule of thumb is that the 1% increase in the employment rate is around EUR 600 million on the side of public finances. In addition, of course, we have that tax policy as the third cornerstone, and that is where the revenue angle of the government from the beginning has been that we are trying to ensure that no one's taxation will increase during this parliamentary term. When we invest in tax reductions, they are related specifically to the taxation of employment and to those who increase activity in Finland. Our fourth cornerstone, in addition to debt, employment and taxation, is of course structural reforms in economic policy, including social welfare reform, which is perhaps one of the biggest reforms in the history of Finnish public finances. The last cornerstone is the dismantling of standards, whether they relate to agriculture or trade opening hours or, for example, the liberalisation of alcohol law. They are all the measures that this government intends to take in the first year, and they will also do so in the next three years. And lastly, I will stop where we started. This government has now made the most difficult and painful surgical decisions of all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u93	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u94	Mr President, ärade Herr Talman! Regeringens andra tillaggsbudget försumur helt och hållet den kris vi har i modernen, i jordbruket. Här anslås 144 million euro för capitalisering av Terrafame. Den har debatterats flitigt i dag. Männu mer pengar i det bottenlösa hål som Talvivaara utgör. Samtidigt finns bull inget, inte en endaste euro, för jordbruket som befinner sig i sin djupaste cris under hela vårt medlemskap.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u95	Mr President! I was thinking briefly of commenting on the great picture of the economy. Perhaps before that — although I am not in the habit of presenting additional expenditure on the state budget — on what Mr Nylund has said: Yes, it would be important to deal with this crisis package in agriculture now. That is still possible in connection with this amending budget, because otherwise it will go too far, on schedule and otherwise, and when the situation is known, I would see that this needs to be done, even though we know the narrowness of these frameworks. Indeed, this great picture of the economy is important to bear in mind: improving employment, achieving economic growth, implementing social and regional reforms, controlling debt and then also improving competitiveness, which is a key contribution to the competitiveness pact. Today is a very important day. This is where the final information is once again worrying — it is stretching and getting old — but it is now time for all parties to feel their responsibilities. Of course, interest groups, both employers' organisations and trade unions, also have their own responsibilities, an important role to play, which we still support in society with tax money. Interest groups also exercise a great deal of power in occupational pension schemes, and it is also important that this agreement should be concluded because of this system. It is also a matter of trust. There are many deficits in the economy, but some see that the lack of confidence is the worst deficit, and when it comes to creating a competitiveness pact, it creates the confidence that is needed. Of course, other entrepreneurship measures, employment measures, job contracts, close-to-job democracy are needed and can and must be taken forward when this great agreement is first reached. Transport projects are one thing, now even a small renovation, and new instruments must be found to finance this too. President! This parliamentary debate bothers me in such a way that this great image is really forgotten by the opposition: it is the same thing that we must not spare now and we have someone
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u100	Congressman Anttila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u101	Mr President! A competitiveness pact has been mentioned many times here and it is very important. It is indeed hoped that a solution will be found this week to create a competitiveness pact and thus restore confidence in the Finnish economy. It is a question of whether Finnish society is capable of settling matters. It is the most important thing, alongside the competitiveness effects, that we have the ability to agree, a contractual society. The most positive aspects of this additional budget proposal are the development of informal care and family care, and that is an extremely important issue. It has a budget of EUR 49.3 million for this year and will enter into force from the beginning of July. This money will develop the benefits of family and family carers in such a way that there will be more holidays for both. At the same time, they also invest in their education and thus in their coping. This form is extremely important because we have an increasing need for older people all the time, and family care is an excellent opportunity. Not only is it very popular among those being treated, but it is also very profitable economically compared to having to resort to institutional care. It is also clear that, at a certain point, there is probably a need for institutional care. Both forms of treatment are therefore economically advantageous and will therefore also reduce the need for institutional care and thus bring savings, as stated in the Government's additional budget statements. But, Mr President, I actually came here to talk about the agricultural situation for the simple reason that farmers have been unwittingly forced to pay for Russian sanctions. In the case of farmers, when exports to Russia stopped, food exports stopped, it automatically created an overproduction situation, and the overproduction situation inevitably leads to a fall in producer prices — that is the merciless law of the market economy. This, together with the campaign for price-fixing in trade, has meant that the profitability of the agricultural industry today is very low. We have farms, I know pig farms, even very large ones, who live in a situation where they are applying for a debt restructuring or once and for all to cease production, but then, if there are significant debts from production buildings, it does not necessarily make sense to put an end to it. On the other hand, it is impossible to continue unprofitable production. We should find a completely different culture of cooperation in Finland. Today, as the strongest player in the whole chain, the store has decided that food is the price to be competed for, unlike in Central Europe. There is not a single advertisement in Central Europe’s television and newspapers about how cheap food is. On the other hand, we advertise over EUR 200 million a year for food without saying a word about its quality. We should have the kind of cooperation in the chain in which everyone would take responsibility for it. The producer already bears far too much of the burden of financial responsibility. Industry refines and trade markets. The store has the shelf, which is the most crucial in order to transfer the product to the consumer, and now the trade is based on the fact that it has its own right — as it certainly is the strongest operator — to use the billing as a means of getting more customers into the store in a way that is taken directly from the producer’s backskin. The trade explains this in such a way that they have developed their own production, their activities so much, but I know this very well when last autumn I followed very close negotiations with smaller producers last October: SOK, which here is the biggest depreciator, required those products that they will then have to buy-in at least 15% below what it had been one year ago in an earlier agreement. In other words, in this way, the transaction acquires its product at a clearly low price from the industry and for the producer, the invoice is ultimately directed. But that bill on the shelf is not 15%. This, too, is part of the deal. I would therefore like to open this chain so that we should learn to understand the operation of this chain in a different way. And the only way to solve this problem is to get the whole food chain at the same table to negotiate how the added value of production generated in that chain, billions, will be distributed among the operators, leaving something of it to the primary producer. There's nothing left. The farmer's livelihood today is almost entirely based on subsidies, and that is something no producer wants, but this situation has only fallen into it. That is why I agree with what Mr Ala-Nissila said in his recent speech: this matter must now be dealt with if Finnish food is to be eaten in Finland in the future. Climate change is changing the conditions for production within the European Union so significantly. Southern Europe is drier than ever. We here would have the potential to produce, but are we going to kill the producers before the time comes for us to have that great opportunity?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u102	Mr President! There has been a theme more than anything here during the debate, and it is employment and the various means by which we can secure better development and thus bring growth and growth to Finland. I must be concerned, Mr President, that once again — and I feel that recent history repeats itself in the fact that I have to be on this platform to repeat it — we have an amending budget, with no additional proposals for employment appropriations. The SDP has called for more resources for employment, for an acute situation here and now. In our alternative budget, adequate funding is proposed. It must be remembered that for this year the government will reduce the total budget for active labour policy by 150 million, and that is quite the wrong thing to do at the wrong time. We know that, at the moment, long-term unemployment, for example, is growing in a very worrying way. We have more than 350,000 unemployed overall and over 120,000 long-term unemployed, more than last year's total number of these long-term unemployed, and therefore, President, we cannot turn a blind eye once and for all. What makes it particularly sad and sad is that, at the same time as this amending budget comes, we are dealing here with Winterfell, on which we have heard the sad news. Similarly, Microsoft’s situation, combined with previous Nokia notifications, for example, in my region of Tampere, knows that almost 1,000 people may not be able to work. These are not things that can be lightly shrugged or thought that nothing needs to be done, but, on the contrary, action must be taken. That is why, once again, in our own contributions, we will be presenting more money for employment here and now. I think that is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u105	Mr President! It is also worth saying that the problems caused by the Talvivaara mine itself have brought the negotiations with private investors to an end and cannot even outsource, at rhetorical level, responsibility to the administrative court. The entire former Winterfell management was sitting on a bench for ruining the environment, and despite many good efforts, the new management has not been able to make black white. The mine is not profitable, and it has caused significant environmental damage every single day. The responsible company fulfils the conditions of the environmental permit. If it does not meet the conditions, it can now, in seven months' time, correct the situation rather than accuse the judge. The talk that the Talvivaara mine would still have the opportunity to become a market-based profitable company that manages environmental issues in a responsible manner in addition to the economy is indeed a matter of fact, of softening a painful decision and of political populism, to which Mr Zyskowicz referred earlier. Populism alone does not translate seven correctly into realism. You can't convince private investors with daydream talk. Let us look the facts in the eye and let the court do its work in peace. To date, the mine has not been able to meet the environmental permit conditions it has been subject to, since there is no functioning water purification system in the area and there are still no landfills for the storage of metal fines. Sulphate deposits have been found in Lake Nuasjärvi, which have prevented the normal cycle of the lake and caused oxygen loss. I would like to hear from Mr Zyskowicz, for example, how the government will ensure that these responsibilities are taken care of, among other things, in this water balance. We've never done this before. Now that mining is increasing, how can we do this now? Where do the guarantees come from? And we could also work with the mine in such a way that these existing environmental permits already allow its operations to be subdued. The mine could be driven down in the way of shutting down the various activities of the mine at different stages and then applying separately for the environmental permits that are still needed for dismantling. Perhaps such a question for the government parties in general to ask whether, in the future, it might be possible to take action to require the mine operators to fund a certain share of the profits they make for a bad day, that is, if you do, then the mine itself will be responsible for the damage it causes and not to call on the state to help once again. One such thing from Mr Stubb's comments earlier — perhaps there are enough representatives of the government parties on the ground who can listen to and take up this issue — that these structural reforms, which we all support, could also be extended to our tax subsidies legislation, our tax subsidy system, so that we can get some money from place A to place B and get that tax subsidy system to support new innovations, new skills and also the export performance of Finns. And the second point — although Mr Ala-Nissila can answer: Is this EUR 3 billion saving target still in place for social welfare reform, or has the sign perhaps turned into EUR 3 billion? This freedom of choice legislation completely disrupted this whole package: costs will rise, bureaucracy will increase. Weren't we supposed to cut them both down here? And what is happening, among other things, in committee, in the Committee on Finance,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u108	Mr President! Representative Aalto, you spoke of populism, and so I return to my view of green populism. If the green economic brain is somewhere, it's in your head, Mr. Aalto. So now I repeat my question to you: When the Greens claim that they have an alternative to the savings of about EUR 4 billion proposed by the government, could you, Mr Aalto, now tell us what these alternative savings or large tax increases are? And when, Mr Aalto, you have previously said that saving on kilometric compensation will create a huge amount of savings for the state, could you list, for example, the nine other key savings targets, when these kilometric compensations have already been used many times?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u109	Mr President! Representative Aalto actually turned the savings of 4 billion into an additional 3 billion, just like that. Congressman Zyskowicz spoke of green populism, I'm going to expand a little bit: That line of yours is green-poof populism — green-poof populism. Your alternative budget assumed, among other things, an unrealistic growth assumption, that it lengthened the debt, and now you say that taxes — no, no, no, no, no. If we are going to increase the taxation of labour here, is that what we are going to rise from here in Finland? Are we gonna pull ourselves out of our hair? Come on, Greens too, in some way for realistic economic policy. In the past, at the time of Mr Soinvaara and otherwise, there were very sensible policies. We have now taken a line that is certainly not sustainable development. Can you really go this far from your own ideas?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u112	Reply, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u113	Mr President! One can say that after Mr Mayo Aalto has spoken, one can only wonder at that line of economic policy of the Green League. Their line seems to be based on absurd borrowing, and as far as your chairman Ville Niinistö's line is concerned, when bank support in Greece was being paid, it seemed to your chairman that debt is being taken and paid, the European countries must be supported. There were German and French banks behind you, and you had your purse open at the time, up to Europe. Where is your economic policy line? It is the worst type of populism, as Mr Ala-Nissila well described in his speech. It's not like you have a head or a tail, you take debt, you raise interest. That means that Finland would immediately be subjected to the care of the International Monetary Fund and the Greek path would be ahead. Representative Touko Aalto takes up debt, raises interest rates, and at the same time pays the debts of the German and French banks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u114	Let us now turn to Mrs Aalto for a reply, and then we shall move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u115	Apparently I got the honor of being in the board of some kind of such emotional outburst object and punching bag, but this punching bag will also put back. If I may briefly comment: The Greens' idea is that the government's objectives are largely in the right direction, there is room for further work and a little more sawmill can be used on this issue. After all, the main idea is that structural reforms should definitely be carried out. We support them in the same way as you do, but we also rely on the tax subsidy system, among other things. Another key idea is that spending savings should also be made, but we should look at those items when it is worth doing, what to do, and we will do during the two parliamentary term, there will be a longer period of time in our spending adjustment. We also make use of the expert information, which is why research is carried out in Finland, among others. In other words, we are making a little better use of that tax base at this stage, which is less harmful for economic growth. And it's worth taking advantage of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u116	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u117	Mr President! Public finances have been in deficit since 2009. Despite all adjustment measures and projected growth of 0.9% this year, government finances remain in deficit. However, the increase in the debt ratio relative to gross national income is slowing down during this government. The second amending budget increases the need for net government borrowing by EUR 233 million. The left-wing opposition has long spoken of resuscitation and spoke out loudly against cuts. The truth is, however, that this year, too, the net borrowing is estimated at EUR 5.6 billion. Eating debt should be reduced, and it takes hard decisions. Nevertheless, you can say to Mrs Rinte that, hey, we are reviving, because the burden of debt is increasing. However, the debt ratio is controlled by government measures. For the left, immigration was to be just a resource and a resource, but, as we can see from the budget, an increase of EUR 230 million is proposed. Compared to the usual annual number of asylum seekers, the costs of the migration crisis are estimated to rise to just under EUR 800 million in 2016. In reality, we are talking about billions when we consider indirect costs. It's a big sum, and it doesn't get any smaller by talking. The most important thing is that the government has introduced legislative changes in order to reduce the income of asylum seekers to Finland, so the costs will also be clearly lower in the future. The Finnish Immigration Service has already reduced more than 10,000 seats from reception centres and closes or has already closed more than 20 reception centres. It is worrying and noteworthy to Finland that today the Swedish Broadcasting Service reported that only less than 500 of their 162,000 asylum seekers who came last year have entered the labour market so far, despite the fact that in Sweden the Finnish Immigration Service grants work permits to asylum seekers without exception, despite the fact that this is the case. It is a sign to us that this employment management of immigrants, or, let us say, asylum seekers, must be better invested in and monitored. Mr President! The Rural Development Agency will receive an increase of almost EUR 1 million so that payments of agricultural subsidies can be made more smoothly. EUR 250,000 is proposed for the digitalisation project for the built environment and construction. The Social Democrats have raised the issue of employment today, and it is good in itself. It should be noted that additional work on the new system of case management of unemployment security and social security will also be made available. The costs will rise, but the system will serve the activities of appeal boards and thus the unemployed and subsidised Finnish citizen. EUR 34 million will be used through the Structural Funds to finance the Enterprise Initiative programme for small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the Government has submitted a proposal for short-term interest subsidies for construction loans. EUR 10 million will be transferred to the installation of lifts to encourage older people to live at home. It may sound like a small thing, but in an ageing Finland it is an important question. In addition, the proposed start-up grant to meet the objectives of the state and the municipalities of the Helsinki region, which is intended to produce affordable rental housing, should be mentioned as an Espoo citizen. It is proposed to increase the mandate for this by EUR 10 million. Of course, since the decision concerns the granting authority, there is no need for a separate allocation. Mr President! This amending budget also contains a few entries on mining, as we have seen today in the debate. The head of Terrafame's trust, Jukka Vetola, said yesterday: "If and when this is done properly, it will be difficult to put the milking cow to the slaughter in December." However, this government will have to make a decision, and now it will have to have a frame. The milking cow has so far acted only in the direction of the company, and it must be remembered that the price of nickel and other raw materials will finally determine the fate of the Talvivaara mine. The government is now correcting the mistakes made by the Greens, Ville Niinistö, when he was a minister. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say to Mr Viitanen, who raised the issue of borrowing: It is in the opinion of the Finns Party that the funds that are now needed to cover the costs of immigration in this situation of migration crisis should be taken as a debt rather than being cut out of the already low-income subsidies of low-income Finns. I wonder whether the Socialist Group thinks this is a worse line than actually cutting these people's subsidies more and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u118	Mr President! At the end of April, the number of persons unemployed continuously over one year was over 121,000, which is 17,000 more than one year ago. It is high time that real measures were taken to reduce long-term unemployment. Unfortunately, the government's actions are not convincing and some decisions even have a humiliating tone. Fortunately, the government is giving up its plans for a free work sample. Juho Saari has found that the longer you look at the unemployed, the more lazy he looks. The government should look at the situation of the long-term unemployed very closely now. We now need a programme to combat long-term unemployment, and this is a matter of urgency. This is not about laziness, it is about the fact that there is no job available on the open labour market. They could provide meaningful work, which could also serve as a bridge to the open labour market. However, the government has decided to reduce the employment potential of organisations. I therefore ask whether all unemployed people who are not working will continue to go into rehabilitative work even if there is no need for rehabilitation. This is harmful to people who do not need rehabilitation work but who can manage, for example, in the intermediate labour market. This is also damaging because there is a risk that those who benefit from rehabilitative work will not be able to get there in the future. The Social Security Association of North Karelia is currently working on the Kaiku project, which aims to promote the employment and job search capacity of the long-term unemployed. There is a customer panel within the project, and the first panel asked the unemployed themselves about their experiences of unemployment and the services they received. The jury described their situation by saying, among other things, that the unemployed are in need of change and that laws change so quickly that even the officials of the office cannot keep up with the change. The services of the Te Office received a lot of criticism from the members of the jury, including the fact that it is almost impossible to get a personal appointment time and the website is difficult to use, telephone numbers are difficult to find and no one answers them. The employees of the TE Offices also communicate a similar need. The resources are so poor that they do not even manage their duties satisfactorily. Even young people have to wait six months to meet a professional. With this situation in the employment offices, the government’s objectives of reducing long-term unemployment seem to be utopia. That is why the Socialist Group in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities is proposing additional funding for pay support, particularly for young people and the long-term unemployed. Mr President! In this context, I would like to express my concern at young adults who still do not have vocational training. The end of the skills programme for young adults at the same time as the savings of EUR 190 million in initial vocational training will inevitably lead to a reduction in the provision of training for this target group. Each of us understands that without vocational training in today's working life it is very difficult, if not impossible, to find employment. There is a lot of unemployment in this group and, in particular, long-term unemployment. During the last period, special funding was allocated to this knowledge programme for young adults and its results were good. I therefore wonder very much about the decision of the government to put an end to this effective programme of measures to reduce long-term unemployment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u119	Madam President! This amending budget really comes at a very critical time for the Finnish economy. At present, in these minutes, — or those minutes have already passed — the competitiveness pact had to be in place, by this evening. According to some information, for example, the Metal Association is not involved, which I consider to be a major damage for the Finnish nation. It is absolutely essential that we be able to agree across the labour market on how to start raising the country's economy out of the swamp. It must be remembered that the last time we were in the same situation, in the early 1990s, there was an economic miracle. And the miracle of the economy was then mainly done by the fact that on November 14, 91, the mark was devalued by about 18 percent and finally, on September 7, 92, it was allowed to float. The effect of these events was to reduce the external value of the markka by almost 40%. Today, in the context of the euro, we can no longer do this, of course, but we must do our own job of restoring our own competitiveness. And by agreeing jointly between unions, employers and workers on this objective and on the means by which it can be achieved, that would still be possible. I therefore very much hope that this competitiveness pact will be fully addressed. But there is still time. Only exports from the forest industry in this country seem to be taking hold at the moment, and the first signs that Finland's economy is slowly growing are already visible, these small increases. And this small, delicate wind should now be taken by the two hands and really make this foreign trade work and the export figures rise. Since 2009, Finland's foreign trade has been falling all along, and we are far from where we were at the time when this decline began. That is why it is absolutely necessary to bring this foreign trade into operation and the unemployment rate down gradually. Finland spends around EUR 5 billion annually on the costs of unemployment. Everyone understands that this amount is enormous, not just in economic terms, but in terms of those people who are facing unemployment, it is a truly tragic situation in life. That is why there must now be a consensus in this nation that we are gradually getting this unemployment issue into a better career, a reduction in unemployment and an improvement in people's conditions. The dismantling of bureaucracy offers one possibility. Domestic investments must be mobilised. We currently have various projects worth billions and billions of dollars waiting for a building permit or some other permit, an environmental permit or some other permit. This kind of authorisation bureaucracy, which has been created in Finland, must either increase speed or substantially dismantle bureaucracy. We can't go on like this. Finland is currently investing significant sums of money in the infrastructure. We are repairing roads, railways and other infras. It took many years for this situation on the Finnish road and network to deteriorate all the time. There has been a slight improvement, but it is worth remembering that we are only at the beginning of the repair work. There are still many years of work to be done, and as we saw in the news this morning, for example on the roads, this work is being done with a great deal of fever today. Fixing Infra is a prerequisite for making the economy operational. In this amending budget, Terrafame has a budget of EUR 144 million, which will ensure this year's funding. It is a good thing that this funding came now, and precisely so that environmental protection is gradually taken over in the Talvivaara mine, because otherwise it cannot continue there. It is hoped that there will now be an opportunity in this year for a rational entity to finance this project from the private side and hopefully to increase the price of zinc and nickel on the world market, so that the profitability of this mine can be achieved by market means. That is a very small opportunity at the moment, but I hope it will. It is important, however, that mining in Finland continues because it is absolutely vital for the Finnish economy. An additional EUR 8.44 million has been earmarked for Kemera support in the amending budget. As far as Kemera is concerned, these investments under the Sustainable Forestry Finance Act, which the State gives to forest management every year, are a very complex system which should be reformed in such a way that it is streamlined and made much more supportive of the current system and that forest management is genuinely profitable in this country. I wish we could have it in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u120	Madam President! The second amending budget for 2016 includes both the expected, the hoped-for and the slightly regrettable issues. Definitely at the forefront of fine accomplishments is that there is now a proper investment in family and family care. This saves local government finances, it is humane, and this is a long-awaited investment. I hope, of course, that the whole House will support it. This also shows that this government supports the balancing of local government finances and the central government shares are not being cut but, on the contrary, it has been able to obtain a small increase. This reform also saves local government finances, in that sense the line is different from that of the previous government. Also important are the small volumes of transport that have also been made available to this budget in relation to the bioeconomy and the mobilization of raw materials. When we used to talk about the broad lines of the national economy in that debatation, it does seem that some kind of conversion and growth - pervasive prospects exist now. For the first time since the three years of recession, the last year for the national economy is a plus, 0.5 per cent. This year's assumption is 0.9 per cent. GDP growth is projected to rise by 1.2% for the coming years. They are small and weak figures, but they are still better than minus figures. This budding growth does create a belief in the future and a hope that the recession will gradually break. The number of employed persons also grew by 0.3 per cent. That is not much either, but it is more than an increase in unemployment. Of these few growth areas, I would like to point out that, of course, the government's great investments in the bioeconomy, digitalisation, technology, the environment are all moving forward and they will certainly see very large investments over the next few years, but then there are some concrete sectors like this that are colliding: Apparently, for example, the car trade has turned to growth for the first time since, last year's growth in the car trade was 15 per cent. It is perhaps one of the concrete things that, if people have been encouraged to buy new cars, it tells us something about our economy also turning towards recovery at the level of consumption. Another such growth sector in the north has, of course, already been through this winter period in relation to tourism, and quite wild growth figures have been obtained in that sector. These create hope. Like the previous speaker here, I would like to raise this issue of Kemera. It is good, of course, that this amount of over EUR 8 million has now been re-allocated. But as a whole, Kemera would definitely need a reform, a cleaning, some sort of rational system. It's quite intolerable that people never know how long that money will last. Usually they are not enough for the whole year, and then the lumberjacks are in a difficult situation in the middle of the year. I hope that this Kemera legislation will be reformed and simplified. Mr President! To this end, I would like to say a few words about agriculture, because that too was a lot of talk about today in that debate. Of course, it is one of the sectors that has taken the most blow, in fact, from the direct consequences of international politics, from Russia's counter-constraints. With the large agricultural market in Russia now closed and the market being built for decades, the creation of a new market in Asia, South America, North America, is not going to happen very quickly and simply and hundreds of millions of euros a year, which is now going to happen to agriculture, is not very easily compensated by EU or domestic support packages. They are necessary, they are necessary, but all the work that our ministries can do together to promote exports must be done and even more so. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this Terrafame. The unemployment rate in Kainuu is 16.9 per cent. If there are a thousand more unemployed, it will not make the situation in the province any easier. I hope there is still a chance that an external investor would be interested in Terrafame. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u121	Madam President! Socialism and its achievements are the main obstacles to growth. I would like to introduce one part of that to what we have become involved in. And there is, among other things, the estate of the EU, where the Minister of Finance of the SDP made us pay — the mortgage is a mortgage on the estate. The most shocking information in the second amending budget is found in the immigration item. "Hurry", would certainly say President Pasikivi, if he were. So do I. The terrible thing is that an increase of EUR 230 million is being proposed in relation to the cost of immigration. With the actual budget for this year, it amounts to more than EUR 780 million — a terrible amount. That 780 million ain't all. It is the addition to the so-called normal immigration budget. Even more horrifying is that this year, immigration will cost Finnish taxpayers a total of over one billion. Last year, more than 32,000 immigrants came to Finland and this year, according to the explanatory statement of the additional budget, 10,000 more came to Finland. This year's figure is an estimate. No one knows how many people will rush in here eventually. The agreement with Turkey is almost certainly going down. Every day, thousands of people come across the Mediterranean to Europe. There's a lot of pressure. In the autumn, in this place, I wondered about those fools who want to keep their borders open and even want to attract more people with benefits here. I propose that the Green Left and everyone else who wants to turn Finland into a global social welfare office should have an additional Mamu tax. Let those who want to go this way pay. The average Finnish taxpayer is already fully fed up with this kind of asylum tourism. The bill of billions for Finnish taxpayers is intolerable. What do we get in return? Just more crimes and all kinds of adjustment problems. The chief of police told me last Sunday on TV that the number of sexual crimes is on the rise. Half of them are made by foreigners. He left out the proportion of asylum seekers. However, with the usual Ojala math, it can be calculated that immigrants account for up to half of the total. That's a huge part. The truth is bitter to the soviets, but that's all it's gonna be with excuses. One major problem is the huge number of young men. They want women, but they don't even have enough for their own people. As I recall, there was a story in the Evening Sanomat that there are 144 municipalities and cities in Finland with a bachelor's surplus — that is, there are more bachelors and men than women. Now we're going to adapt this pack of old men to this group. There could be a problem. In addition, Muslim-Christian marriages are a serious problem because a Muslim man's wife is in subjection without dignity. Imams will ensure that the inhumane orders of Islam are complied with here too. One major problem, which has been kept public, is also the massive business that asylum seekers run. Businessmen and even NGOs are making money — and the people are paying. I expect Mr Heinäluoma to take immediate action in the Audit Committee to find out how taxpayers are being laundered with this. Madam President! I support the government's economic and other policies. However, I do not give my support to an absurd and even irresponsible immigration and asylum policy. The borders must be strictly controlled. The conditions of the residence permit must be tightened. The advantages must be tightened up. The removal of those who have been rejected from our country must take place as a matter of urgency. We've got to get this business under control. Only through these procedures can we overcome this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u122	Mr President! I welcome Mr Stubb's promise that the cuts will shift from employment to employment. It is yet another of the government's promises which are either believed or not, because this amending budget shows no sign of a change of direction. To what Mr Terho said earlier, this government has really produced an amazing equation: cut as debt increases. The government's cutting debt. The animal can't do this. Now we take more debt, but we promise that debt will stop; now we cut more, but we promise that cutting will stop — more promises. The President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, wisely said: "There are promises that should not be made, so as not to demand acts that cannot be done." Every time in the supplementary budget debates, we have called for a proper investment in employment. They have not been granted, but it has been promised that employment will self-repair. This has not happened and the difficulties of Winterfell and Microsoft's redundancies will not improve the situation. The government still has an employment goal of 110,000 people at 20,000 minuses. Long-term unemployment exceeds 120,000 people and has increased by almost one quarter in Uusimaa alone compared with last year, i.e. 23 per cent. In quantitative terms, the increase is the largest under the professional title "specialists". How can this trained, skilled group be exposed to prolonged unemployment in an area that is the motor of the Finnish economy? This one fact nakedly tells us that the government’s dreams have failed. All these many promises have been hung up on the kiky deal. It is a pain threshold agreement for hundreds of thousands of Finns. Although we do not believe that this is the right way, we have supported the negotiation in order to prevent further damage to the country. Of course, the government itself has tried to torpedo the settlement. It is now important to know quickly what tax reductions the government is planning to make up for even part of the loss of employees. The worst wage reductions hit the low- and middle-income Finns, so they have earned a tax reduction. Mika Lintilä, the esteemed chairman of the Tax Section, has thus stated, and I hope the whole board will hear him out. If, despite the new difficulties, the Kikiy agreement is implemented, it would be important to be informed quickly about the tax solution. Hundreds of thousands of Finnish families are concerned about their livelihood. They're counting what they're compromising when wages are falling. In order to ensure that consumption does not fall too much because of this fear, but above all for human reasons, it would be appropriate to tell immediately what is left of that reduced salary and preferably that the loss is minor. Mr President! Change of course is welcome, but I doubt this government will be able to do so. To date, it has not promoted an active employment policy that helps people to work in a job that takes care of skills and inclusion. Compared to promises, the screens are limited. If you follow Abraham Lincoln, you should promise less and do more. Finally, I would like to renew my appeal for the Committee on Finance to receive the Government's documents, memos and Terrafame Group's own reports in support of its decision of hundreds of millions. A decision of this size cannot be made with the information given now. In fact, the whole history of Talvivaara's decision is full of hopeful, distorted and obscured data. Minister Rehn promised the committees "appropriate information". In the same speech, however, he presented a calculation based on a higher price of nickel than EUR 1000 on the world market. Today's figure is therefore EUR 20 million less. Throwing EUR 20 million is not the proper information. Mr President! Knowledge is power. The lack of knowledge is power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u123	Madam President! In my opinion, the word "resuscitation" has been replaced by the word "resuscitation" in the language of recent years. Rather, the stimulus in Finland has been to maintain the structures. I feel as an additional contribution to resuscitation in order to breathe, to give oxygen, to give the company more capital or other resources. The fact that domestic consumer demand has been maintained with debt money is, of course, good for social peace and for many households, but sooner or later this debt will be paid. And if there is too much, we will not be able to cope with it, as Greece has shown. No investment in Finland. Depreciation is greater than investment, which is a very bad sign. However, Finns are investing. If you drive by Tallinn, you will notice that Finns are investing in the Tallinn environment. It seems like Ring Three, has a lot of construction work, and often the user is Finnish or foreign or Swedish. The Estonian tax model, which leaves the company as a risk capital what the tax authority in Finland exports, indirectly maintains growth-orientedness, is indirectly risk-taking by the State. But growth, job growth, for central government finances, is a much more effective way of balancing central government finances, as taxes on labour input accumulate immediately, much slower than the company’s profits. Finland’s debt burden is so high that it is of course starting to get nervous, but Belgium has more than twice as much debt in relation to GDP as Finland. I will just wonder whether Finland should invest elsewhere where the classification of the Finnish AAA or AA+ — before AAA, now AA+ — would generate much better income than the current level of interest. I sometimes calculated from an example I made eight years ago that if every year, when you take a billion dollars in debt, you take another and invest in international index funds, more than 10,000 companies, Finland’s wealth would have risen by 20 billion — a huge amount that the Minister of Industry and Ownership laughed at. But this same solution has been used by employment pension companies for as long as I remember, and from there its idea has been applied to the Finnish state finances by a shark. I remember the time when an emergency government was established in Finland. There is a demand here to treat unemployment — at the time when the emergency government was born, there were 63450 unemployed people in Finland. If we now count the unemployed on the same principle as then, we will have about 600,000 unemployed, i.e. ten times the number. About half of these actually appear in the statistics, but one might say that if the labour market does not function properly, unemployment will increase. At the moment, one might say that it is the wrong tree to blame when it is claimed that the government has neglected employment policy. The labour market, which is the biggest and worst cartel in Finland, has made its affairs so difficult that it is not worth taking up work in certain situations at all and in very many situations it is not worth offering, leaving society with a very high level of unemployment and humanely suffering either from the inequities of its studies or from feeling unnecessary. It might really be worth considering whether dismantling universality could be the way to liberalise the labour market. The fact that 0.01 per cent of the world’s working population is in general contact — and it is practically entirely in Finland — seems that this is not a very good idea. At the moment, employment is certainly more a labour market issue than a government issue. In many countries, there is a completely different view of unemployment, for example, the solution being that there is a negative income and tax: when you work, you will receive the support of society for the standard of living that society finds to be in favour — in most cases it is the minimum wage level defined by law — but the effort is required. In Finland, it is better to say that the authorities have taken responsibility for directing work and finding work, as in many other Western European countries responsibility is more prominent for themselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u124	Mr President! The situation in the Finnish economy is still serious, although one might say that a little light is beginning to sparkle at the end of the tunnel. However, I am concerned that it seems that the government is trying to overcome the situation by building a quay, even if we need a bridge: from unemployment to new jobs, from the depression of the bridge to growth, and from the desperation of people to the future. Today, the most vulnerable unemployed are being pushed along a bridge that turns out to be a quay at the deepest and coldest point in the water. The government has balanced the economy precisely by cutting, and it has been almost the only measure of its policy. Growth measures have been left to the competitiveness pact built up by the social partners. However, the Minister of Finance today promised that a cutting policy would finally be moving towards employment management, which promises a good reassessment. Even though there are news today that negotiations on metal seem to have broken down, it is worth trying again. If that is true of the rumours that the form of the increase in working time was cut off by that negotiation, then it would be good to appeal to the government and its representatives to communicate specifically with the employer in order to agree to a local agreement on the extension of working time, because I understand that, this time, the arrangements are reversed: the employer wanted to agree on it at union level and not find solutions through a more local agreement. If we look at the current situation, the government’s own estimates of the economy are rather harsh. GDP grew by 0.5 per cent in 2015, and the Ministry of Finance's growth forecast for 2016 is 0.9 and for the following year and the additional budget for the following year is 1.2. A growth path of at least 2% would be needed to ensure that the 72% employment rate desired by the government is possible. And when we look at growth, it is not only about how our exports run, but also about how our domestic markets operate. What is worrying is that many of the government's actions are cutting employment on the domestic market. In that sense too, if this competitiveness pact were to be created, it would be important for it to be accompanied by measures to stimulate the domestic market. I agree with Mr Lehde that resuscitation has become a bit of a funny word. For each speaker, that means a little different. Some view it as indebtedness and some believe that it is precisely the effort to create jobs and to take measures that promote growth and not just to measure by means of debt money whether to revive or not to revive. The government has planned major changes in labour market policy training. Funding is being transferred to the Ministry of Education and there is a high risk that those who are unemployed will be excluded from education. It would therefore be important to prepare for a reform that would allow self-employed training, i.e. that you can study with unemployment benefit elsewhere than in labour market policy training, to facilitate the criteria. This would certainly help those people who are victims of Microsoft at the moment, would help the victims of Winterfell and would be a bureaucratic way of carrying out this training, because the problem is that the staff shortage in the offices is really so great that it might not be possible to take the measures needed to help the unemployed. And if there is talk of red tape, then it would be appropriate to start them here on the unemployment benefit side and on the prevention side of unemployment security — there on the incentive side of taking up work, but also on the access to education. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that the government is pushing down the intermediate labour market and the employment of organisations. This is something that will become an expensive bill in the future. The market certainly manages part of employment, and that is what they should do, the majority, but when the competitive situation continues to escalate, more and more people will also be beaten outside the labour market because productivity does not reach that market-based work. That is why, among other things, the work done by organisations is needed, which often increases people's well-being and also increases opportunities for work and activity for the unemployed and thus prevents exclusion from society altogether.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u125	Madam President! This second amending budget allocates resources to a much-needed issue, the development of family and family care, which is one of the government's top projects. The government shows that it has seen the tip of what is infinitely important among us people, that we care and care for our loved ones well, and the government wants to encourage it. EUR 49.3 million will increase the central government share of basic services. What does it mean, then, that resources are allocated to family and family care? This means that family carers who have a family care contract receive two days’ leave per calendar month and those who have 24-hour care-related care at home receive three days’ leave per calendar month. In addition to this, it is proposed to amend the Social Welfare Act in such a way that those who need substitute care receive appropriate care. The short-term care to which a loved one sends can not be mere detention, but must be developed and considered in order for everyone to have a suitable place to care for themselves. At the same time, family care is also being developed and the fees for family carers are being increased to EUR 775, and that is also extremely important. Family care and family care will increase — not only because we talk about these savings, but also because more and more people want to care for their loved ones close to them, in their own home, even until the end. Then we are at the heart of humanity, and that is the essence of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u126	Madam President! It is very sad in itself that this amending budget did not include a crisis package for Finnish agriculture, which I am sure many people expected. It is clear that Russian sanctions have hit Finnish agriculture with the strongest hand of all that has happened in Europe on this issue. Finnish agriculture is the real sufferer of this policy of sanctions. Russian President Vladimir Putin has announced that sanctions and this situation as such will continue until the end of 2017. This means that the situation in Finnish agriculture, at least in this respect, and in the Russian market, will not improve in the near future. It should be remembered that the main export area of Finnish food industry products, mainly the St. Petersburg region, is, in a way, out of the market for the next year and a half, which is why exports of Finnish agriculture do not drag. This will lead to a fall in the profitability of agriculture once prices have been reduced and will be reflected directly in the farm incomes stream. I understand that Mr Kimmo, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Tiilikainen has certainly done his best in this regard, and I firmly believe that the autumn budget debate will return to this issue, because the situation is serious enough to ensure that a great many farms are genuinely hand-to-mouthed and have clear payment difficulties, for example with regard to electricity bills. Let us hope that a solution can be found as quickly as possible on this matter. It is equally important, Mr President, that as far as agriculture is concerned, these red tape projects are progressing as quickly as possible — we clearly have a huge amount of money being put in place to maintain agricultural bureaucracy and it must be dismantled — and, above all, the payment of the subsidies that the Rural Development Agency is paying for will begin to make, so that we can get all the aid on time and this crisis package as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u127	Mr President! Almost half of the EUR 455 million increase in the second amending budget for 2016, namely EUR 230 million, will be spent on the costs of immigration. In fact, this amount is almost the same as the net borrowing of EUR 233 million contained in the proposal. These costs can therefore be considered to be borne as such by future generations. The cost of migration is estimated to be more than EUR 780 million higher than in previous years. As a whole, immigration costs are already moving in the order of EUR 1 billion or more, and the actual costs are likely to be much higher than this estimate. If the necessary measures are not taken soon, they will continue to grow. All this, therefore, despite the fact that, in public debate, immigration has, as a general rule, been regarded as nothing more than wealth and strength. Mr President! The costs of immigration must be reduced, and the government programme's statement on the cost of immigration must be implemented as soon as the costs are known, as it will be easier to tackle them by means of legislation. Firstly, as Mr Hakkarainen has just said, Finland must reduce the attractiveness of immigration. One important measure in this respect is the need to tighten up the criteria for family reunification in several stages, and I hope that blackmail will take place under strict conditions. In addition, the Minister of Social Affairs and Health, under the leadership of Mr Mäntylä, has been preparing for the separation and reduction of social security for immigration. The rapid implementation of the government's proposals in the immigration and asylum policy programmes will certainly reduce public sector indebtedness, but only if they are fully implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u128	Madam President! When you come from the region where Finland's greatest structural change has been experienced in recent years, I am also concerned, as are many other representatives in this Chamber today, especially this inadequacy of employment appropriations. It seems really cold in these unemployment figures that every government's amending budget lacks investment in the employment budget. Then, with regard to last week’s bad news — Microsoft and Winterfell have been mentioned here today in several speeches — the government has now decided to apply for support from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, and when this number of people made redundant clearly exceeds the limits of these criteria, we will also be able to obtain support with great certainty. I myself am thinking, in particular, of the long-term nature of these EU subsidies and, of course, of all state-supported employment services, and of the fact that these forms of support are genuinely of long-term benefit to the self-employed and thus to our society as a whole. I dare tell you from the experience of my own region: We have projects in place where there is too little emphasis on or monitoring efficiency in the price of the measure. Measures and options require continuous development and reassessment. Among other things, Microsoft employees have skills that we must not let go, on the contrary, and we must remember that they too are concerned with the livelihood and well-being of many families. But today, when it comes to the second amending budget, the long-term unemployed and our young people, those who are graduates or those who are left unemployed, are most concerned. Does the government think they have time to wait for one amending budget after another? I don't think so. When I have listened to the whole debate on this second draft amending budget, it is bound to be made a few remarks, and one above the others was in the debat and in the speeches at the beginning that not only was the Finnish peasant concerned about the opposition, but also the centre's voice was very vibrating in this regard. Who would have believed before the elections that we, as the Prime Minister's Party, have a centre of gravity at the same time as:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u129	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u130	Mr President! It is a so-called posted workers' directive and how the conditions of employment and benefits of posted workers would be monitored as effectively as possible when services are provided from one country to another and workers are sent from one country to another. The purpose of this Directive is to prevent abuses relating to the exercise of this freedom to provide services and the accompanying posting of workers. The aim of preventing abuse is to improve the implementation and supervision of the concept of posting of workers and, in fact, to introduce uniform criteria at Union level to facilitate a common interpretation of posting. This proposal is actually reforming national legislation on the posting of workers in its entirety and is proposing the repeal of the old law. The provisions in force are essentially transferred to this new law, although the scope of this new law is somewhat broader and has been extended to include, inter alia, work carried out by central government authorities on the basis of contracts which had previously been exempted from these activities. Overall, this law amends the legislation on posted workers and, above all, the system of penalties. Currently there is a criminal penalty for a violation of the law, but for example because of the limited resources of the pre-trial investigation authorities and because the suspect of the violation often resides in another country, this has not been applied in practice, or has been difficult to apply, and, for example, if the police have carried out tests, they have ended when the suspect has left Finland. It is therefore good that these provisions on criminal liability are now being replaced in a new way by administrative default charges imposed by the supervisory authority in the administrative procedure. This change will certainly make the authorities more effective when duplication of work, both in criminal and administrative matters and in this imposition of sanctions, is eliminated. The committee in its report states that this change and the proposals are necessary and appropriate and supports them. However, the committee drew particular attention to the fact that cabotage, for example, is a very specific area of activity and this directive on posted workers, the way in which it is now being transposed in Finland, brings a big gap. It is, for example, a question of the fact that the time limits are poorly suited to cabotage, and therefore, at worst, these proposed new legislative provisions, which are therefore now the same for almost all sectors, will not be applied at all in road transport. There is, in fact, a parallel legislative initiative on this road transport and on one other issue, which has also been dealt with by the committee and, if you can say so freely, that there is a good spirit in it, but nevertheless this bill and the changes it brings have not been adopted. On the other hand, the committee has called for the government to closely monitor this current regulation, particularly in the road transport sector, because it is one of the risk areas of the black economy. It might be said that for posted workers, both the construction sector and road transport are such specific sectors where specific measures are also needed, and the committee believes that, given the specific nature of this regulation, it may be necessary to regulate it — in fact, this is the exact wording that is written in the report. The Committee considers it important that the application of the proposed law to road transport be closely monitored and that, if necessary, the government takes measures to improve the implementation of the directive here too on the cabotage side. Responsibility for subcontracting is also within the scope of this Directive and specific measures are laid down in the construction sector to safeguard the rights of posted workers. The mandatory regulation of the Construction Directive is intended to deal with the posting of workers in subcontracting situations and the typical shortcomings in this sector. In principle, the directive is based on the requirement of solidarity between the subscriber and the contractor in the construction sector with regard to the rights of posted workers. However, in Article 6, the directive allows other implementing measures to be adopted instead of this solidarity, provided that they are sufficiently effective and proportionate sanctions exist in the event of irregularities and fraud. In its own proposal, the Government has decided to use this Article 6 as an exception procedure and considers that, for example, in the construction sector, when we have a specific obligation for the contractor and the main contractor to determine the amount of pay paid to the posted worker and whether this salary is in accordance with the proposed law, these measures have been in place in Finland for a long time, such as the fact that the construction sector already has more stringent provisions, such as the tax number, the monthly declaration to the tax authority, the compulsory identity cards, the employee lists and others, as if together fulfil the conditions of Article 6. This Posting of Workers Directive and its law do not alter the definition of minimum wages as such, but proposes that the provisions of the existing law be incorporated into the law. The committee held a long debate on this minimum wage determination, and it emerged from the debate that we actually have a decision by the European Court of Justice on what needs to be taken into account when the minimum wage is used, and stated that our implementation must be in line with the European Court of Justice, because in reality we are in a situation where the European Court of Justice has aligned certain matters and extended what is included in the minimum wage, but then, on the enforcement side, we are in the middle of a process which would have defined what the minimum wage is. The committee drew attention to the fact that these decisions of the European Court of Justice should be taken into account. The committee also made a number of amendments to the articles which, in substance, specify the objective pursued by this directive and a few minor changes to the stilistics in order to avoid misunderstandings and I am not going through them here. I would like to point out that this report contains an objection which is actually focused on two issues: the existence of special provisions for cabotage and the use of this general rule of the directive rather than the exemption code of Article 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u131	Mr President! To begin with, and first of all, I would like to propose for approval the amendment of the section which is in line with the objection. I shall now go on to explain the clause tabled jointly by the Socialists, the Greens, the Left Alliance and the Christian people. In many respects, the government's proposal represents an improvement in the regulation of posted workers. However, there are some shortcomings, particularly concerning the transport sector and the specific regulation of the construction sector set out in the directive. In this respect, the Government's proposal does not fulfil the purpose of the Directive to safeguard the rights of posted workers. Finland has traditionally been a pioneer in regulating posted workers. Finland has made full use of the possibilities offered by EU regulation to safeguard the status of posted workers. Now, however, the government's proposal in some places aims at a minimum level rather than making use of the discretion left to Finland by EU regulation at national level. In this respect, the legislator would be able to do more to safeguard the rights of posted workers and also the competitiveness of Finnish work. The latter concerns the road transport sector in particular. There are four different points in our objection, and if the President-in-Office will allow me, I would be happy to bring all these points up at once in my speech. Firstly, the need for change in the road transport sector. The regulation proposed in the government proposal is poorly suited to the road transport sector and leaves gaps when it comes into force which reduce its scope for application in the road transport sector. The Posted Workers Directive covers the so-called cabotage sector. Regulation is also intended to apply to the transport sector in the case of posting an employee as an intra-group transfer or temporary agency worker and the criteria for posting are met. The Government's proposal contains a number of time limits relating to the duration of the posted worker's work, which are poorly suited to the road transport sector. These restrictions largely exclude work in this area from the proposed regulation. This cannot be considered justified and does not correspond to the practice followed in most other European countries. That is why, when we object, we propose to add restrictions that certain time limits laid down by law do not apply to the work of the road transport sector. Secondly, in protest, we draw attention to the client's responsibility for the minimum salary of posted workers in the construction sector. The Directive seeks to safeguard the right of posted construction workers to receive their minimum wages as required by law and collective agreements, and to impose on the subscriber in the country of employment the responsibility to ensure that the rights of posted workers are realised. The Government's proposal proposes that instead of the contractor's responsibility, construction work should be subject to a special obligation on the contractor or main contractor to determine the unpaid wages of posted workers. This would be an obligation to act, not a material responsibility for the employee's claims. In this respect, the Government's proposal is based on the possibility of a derogation from the Enforcement Directive, which allows Member States to introduce other means rather than direct subscriber responsibility. However, the responsibility of the subscriber can only be replaced by other measures of national law if these measures enable effective and proportionate sanctions to be imposed on the subscriber in situations where workers find it difficult to uphold their own rights. The government proposal ignores the substantive liability of the subscriber under the Directive. According to the performance, the customer’s responsibility would be fulfilled through the developer and the main contractor. However, it is left open how it would come about when the contractor and the main contractor's statutory obligation to settle the unpaid minimum wages would be imposed on the sending undertaking, the subscriber. Therefore, the objection raises an increase in the fact that, in the construction sector, the subscriber has a parallel responsibility for the minimum salary of the posted worker. The subscriber would be relieved of liability if it proved that it had verified the working conditions applicable to the employee and the conditions under which the posting undertaking would pay the minimum wage required by law and collective agreement. My third objection concerns the allocation of the default fee. In the Government's proposal, the system of penalties for posted workers is proposed to be amended. Under the law in force, the employer or his representative may be fined for breach of that law. In the government's proposal, this is proposed to be offset by an administrative default fee. At the same time, however, the scope of the consequences would also be reduced. For example, the obligation to report to the subscriber on the determination of social security for workers is excluded from the non-compliance fee. As such, the proposed legislation would create legal uncertainty. Where there is no justified need for the proposed reduction of sanctions, the objection is raised that, for reasons of consistency and logic, it is justified that the non-compliance penalty should be linked to the non-compliance with the obligation to report. The last, or fourth, objection to our objection is the amount of the default fee. The draft law proposes a default fee of between EUR 1000 and EUR 10000. The proposed penalty payment is considerably light compared to the sanctions imposed in many European countries. Where the law in force on subscriber liability contains, in part, quite similar obligations to the proposed Poster Workers Act, it is justified to impose a non-compliance fee of between EUR 2000 and EUR 20000 in accordance with the Subscriber Liability Act. At this level, too, it would be quite light at European Union level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u132	Madam President! It should be noted from the outset that this government proposal is therefore an improvement on the current situation, but it poses major problems in the road transport sector. Eight years of work in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, I wonder that the committee did not find any understanding of the sector, which is a major employer, a major tax collector and a major tax payer. This government proposal therefore completely forgot about the application of the law to road transport workers. In the preparatory working group, the social partners in the transport sector were not consulted at all during the drafting of the legislation, and the parallel legislative initiative, which was prepared by the opposition, also received, in my opinion, a complete disillusionment in committee work. One cannot help but marvel at this attitude when one considers the social significance of the sector. Of the EUR 6 billion annual turnover in the transport sector, EUR 2.7 billion in taxes and parafiscal charges paid by companies and employees is returned to the state. The question now arises as to whether representatives of government parties are prepared to make Finnish skilled heavy-duty drivers and entrepreneurs even unemployed. I don't think we can afford this. We have also talked a lot about employment appropriations today, a lot about the unemployed. We do not need any more self-inflicted. Mr President! I would also like to remind you that the government is also going to amend the Commercial Freight Transport Act. In practice, when a proposal such as the present one comes into being, the government is prepared to repeal the national provisions. We have heard many times that this proposal would be a death blow to the Finnish transport industry. The question arises as to where all the candidates for the parliamentary elections who have passed from the government ranks, who still defended the domestic trucker and entrepreneur just over a year ago. I hope they find their political conscience before it's too late. I would like to support the objection made by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u133	Mr President! I am speaking here as a Member of Parliament and not as chairman of the committee, i.e. a few personal views. I believe that there has been a clear change of direction in the way in which governments have chosen to monitor the conditions of employment of posted workers. In the past, our problem has been that the EU has not allowed the types of controls that Finland has wanted to introduce, because it has been considered that they are, as it were, preventing us from entering the country, and all the room for manoeuvre that has been made possible through the mobility of EU services and through posted workers. But we have now gone down the minimum road, in other words, we have not used the main rule of the directive which has brought such solidarity, that the parent company, which uses these posted workers, is itself responsible for paying wages and treating people as our laws and collective agreements do, but has moved to this category of dumping and using the opportunities it offers. Despite this, this bill as a general rule brings clarity and improvement to our current situation, but I myself would have liked to have used that chain liability when it is possible. The second problem relates to the fact that we generally want to make legislation at work in such a way that it treats everyone in the same way. And yet, if we look at the situation of posted workers, we clearly have sectors where there are more posted workers and where those problems are also, in a way, sectoral. During the previous period, when the legislation on subscriber liability was adopted in Parliament, the proposal was such that it would have treated all sectors in the same way. But then the committee was very unanimous in its desire to find a solution that takes account of the specific characteristics of the construction sector, for example, because there is a lot of cross-border work and there is also a lot of subcontracting in the chain, so that the risk of working conditions being trampled on is greater than in other areas of activity, and the committee then clarified and took into account the construction sector. Now I would have liked to see similar clarifications Would have been made here, actually... ...that similar changes had been made on the cabotage side,as thereis a Many other countries adopt well-specific measures and thereby seek to ensure that the price is not unfairly competed by dumping working conditions or wages. And perhaps the third problem I think is how to define the minimum wage. We had quite an interesting debate, and even, I might say, somewhat misleading expert opinions, which interpreted the minimum wage very narrowly, even though there are clear EU Court decisions on this, for example, in the case of the electricity union. I would have liked those new definitions to have been introduced into the law, but fortunately they appear there on the side of the report as a text and as a responsibility for monitoring. But in general, we cannot think that when we talk about working conditions, it is just the money we get. It is a question of how the conditions of employment are determined, and of different aspects of pay that are comparable to wages, such as holiday money, daily allowances or other similar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u134	Mr President! The government proposal is largely good and improves the situation we have with these posted workers. However, in the course of the committee's deliberations, I was questioned by this very question, which has also been raised by a number of representatives of the opposition parties, namely the cabotage phenomenon and the fact that the transport sector might not be sufficiently taken into account here. However, after a long struggle with the matter, I came to the conclusion that this proposal does not put a Finnish transport operator or employee in a worse position than a foreigner. However, if I am wrong, which I do not wish, I am prepared to admit my mistake and withdraw my decision. In about three years' time, the results will be visible. If it has happened that this motion was a death blow, as Mr Taimela described, for Finnish road transport, then it must be cancelled. I do not know whether I am still a representative of Parliament or whether the Finns are in the government, but if I am and that is the case, then I hope that the Prime Minister's Party, the Prime Minister's Party, will be prepared to change this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u135	Mr President! In the interests of certainty, when I heard half-heartedly whether Mr Taimela was in favour of the amendments tabled by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen: I support them. In this debate on the death blow, the problem is, of course, how we can control the wrong working conditions. If our control instruments are weaker, then it will result in an unhealthy competitive situation in which companies that, as it were, disqualify themselves from their official responsibilities will get away with it. It is therefore important that these control elements are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u136	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 13/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u137	Madam President! The Government proposal aims to harmonise the provisions of the Road Act and the Railway Act and the way in which the laws are recorded. According to the proposal, the introduction of roadside advertisements and notices would be subject to the notification procedure and the conditions for advertising and notification would be reduced. The Finnish Transport Agency would be empowered to lay down provisions on structures, structures and equipment placed in the road area, as well as on roadside advertisements and notices. This reform will also implement the Government Programme’s key project to streamline legislation and reduce the administrative burden, in particular by increasing the use of the notification procedure for the setting of roadside advertisements and notices and for placing electricity and telecommunications cables in the road area. I believe that this reform is very important and, if it succeeds, it will make it possible to make further use of common sense. I also see the potential of failure in the reform. Roadside advertising and reporting has been subject to authorisation and will become subject to the law. It is an excellent thing that advertising and advertising are facilitated and that the administrative burden is reduced. However, the notification procedure must also become easier and clearer in practice than the authorisation procedure. It is also important that the authorities in the whole country have uniform interpretations, because it is possible to use this famous common sense — or arbitrary — at this point. Citizens' rights must be safeguarded equally. During the present law, roadside advertising has been quite diverse and also limited. In my country, for example, there is the Holiday Centre Huhmari. They have not even been able to advertise their position on the main road number 9 with guidance signs, but this has only been possible at the intersection to the resort. In this case, people who go to Huhmar already know where to find the resort. I hope that this presentation will also bring about a change in such advertising and guidance. One of the most important points I would consider is road safety. When an advertisement is placed at a crossroads, it can easily mask the visibility in either direction. In this case, even a fatal accident is at risk. I've studied a lot of cases like this. Many times, in the event of a fatal accident, road commercials mysteriously disappear as soon as the accident occurred. However, this would be the best prevention and not just the response to an accident. Article 52 of the Law states that an advertisement or a notice intended for road users to be placed outside the site plan area or within the site plan area within the transport area referred to in Article 83(4) of the Land Use and Building Law must be drawn up and located in such a way that it does not endanger road safety or adversely affect road maintenance and that it adapts as well as possible to the environment. Similarly, the law states that the lodging of such an advertisement or notice must, as a general rule, be notified to the Road Administration. The notification shall be accompanied by a statement of the advertisement or declaration and the place where it is located, together with a statement of the consent of the property owner or holder to erect it. I believe that these conditions should continue to be met. I am also a little critical of the use of LED advertising equipment and its location. Yes, advertising is effective, but often in a dangerous place. In Joensuu, for example, these have even had to be removed. I also think that it would be good to monitor country-wide how they affect road safety and whether they increase the risk of accidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u138	Madam President! Indeed, this government proposal is intended to harmonise the provisions of the Road Law and the Railway Act and the way in which the laws are recorded. The placing of electric and telecommunications cables in the road area will be subject to a notification procedure in certain situations, and the setting of roadside advertisements and notices will be subject to a notification procedure and the conditions for advertising and notification will be reduced. This is, in itself, a good government proposal, because this proposal also seeks to dismantle standards and reduce the administrative burden. The proposal also clarifies interpretationally the difficult situations and will hopefully also reduce the costs of these advertisers and different businesses and companies in the future. We have heard a great deal about this proposal from various experts in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and what is important is that this proposal now enhances the remit of the Finnish Transport Agency by giving the Agency provisions on structures, structures and equipment in road areas and on roadside advertising and notices. It is clear from the arguments put forward by the Government that the primary purpose of the provisions is to reduce the risk or other harm to transport and to regulate the content and procedure of the notifications and otherwise the technical characteristics. There have been no unambiguous provisions on these until now, but some of them depended on the guidelines of the Finnish Transport Agency. We in the committee considered it necessary to lay down unambiguous rules on these matters so that the public could know what they should do and, up to that point, are in an equal position in different parts of the country. Thus, the administrative burden of roadside advertising and reporting will also be reduced. Until now they have been subject to authorisation, and according to the new law they are now subject to notification. I therefore believe that this is a truly sensible dismantling of standards and clarifying the way in which it is done, but, as Mr Kulmala also pointed out in his own speech, the road safety aspect must, overall, be able to be monitored and monitored after the entry into force of this law. As such a small fear or troll, these expert hearings pointed out that the change in law in its form is likely to further obscure the division of labour between the state and municipalities in the maintenance of roads and streets. In committee, we considered it important in future to look at transport funding as a whole from the perspective of the division of labour and financial responsibilities between the state and municipalities and the allocation of transport tax revenues. Of course, this too, when this was included in the committee's report, must be able to follow in the future how it will be done. All in all, however, this is a well-founded government proposal, done in good cooperation with the committee, and it still demands, from the point of view of road safety and, of course, also that people's sense of justice be monitored and monitored in order to deal with matters in different areas in the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u139	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-31-ps-61.u140	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Law on the National Defence College and the Law on the Defence Forces. The aim of the proposal is to streamline the organisation of officer training, to develop career paths for National Defence College researchers and to align the regulation of the National Defence College with the regulation of universities. I consider the proposal to be justified and to clarify the current situation, as the above-mentioned need for reform of education is appropriate and will clarify education in the future. The National Defence College has no autonomy equivalent to universities and has therefore not been a university within the meaning of the University Act, even though the degrees have been built in accordance with the Bologna Declaration and are comparable to university degrees. This proposal proposes the creation of a new title for assistant professor and assistant military professor in the Defence Forces. This is a very much-awaited reform. The proposed posts will create a new step in the structure of scientific research and teaching and enable researchers to create a career path to the National Defence College. The reform will certainly also increase the appreciation of the National Defence College and further increase scientific research. In the past, the lack of a career path has made recruiting researchers to the National Defence College more difficult and has reduced the attractiveness of military research careers in general. Now the government is helping to remove this obstacle with this proposal. National Defence College has operated in Finland with university status and organises vocationally specialised higher education for so-called civilians. A change according to the Government proposal has no impact on civilian students or on the organisation of their studies. I therefore very much welcome the fact that, under certain conditions, the above-mentioned civilian students will continue to be able to study at the level of a bachelor's or master's degree in military sciences. These studies can open up a whole new career path for them in the field of defence, including international tasks. It should be remembered that the most important task of the National Defence College is still to train high-quality and competent officers to serve as officers of the Defence Forces and Border Guard and this training is not available anywhere else in Finland. Civilian students cannot thus belittled in any way, on the contrary, by their previous work and education experience they supplement the education received from the National Defence College. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the overall officer training, the Government's bill proposes that responsibility for steering and coordinating the whole be transferred from the Chief Staff to the National Defence College. The responsibility for carrying out officer training would thus rest entirely with the National Defence College. I believe that this proposal is a well-founded and transparent arrangement.
