ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 43/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the first plenary session on 13 December 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u2	Värderade Talman! Jag föreslår ändringar i 45 § enligt reservation 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u3	Mr President! I support the amendment tabled by Mr Rehn-Kive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u4	Veronica Rehn-Kivi, supported by Stefan Wallin, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u5	Värderade Talman! Jag föreslår förändringar i 50 § enligt reservation 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u7	Veronica Rehn-Kivi, supported by Stefan Wallin, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u8	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 28/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the first plenary session on 13 December 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u9	Mr President! I propose that Article 36: to be changed to the form in which it appears in objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u10	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u11	Joona Räsänen, supported by Mika Kari, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u12	Mr President! I propose that Article 55: to be changed to the form in which it appears in objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u13	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u14	Joona Räsänen, supported by Mika Kari, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u15	The plenary session shall be suspended in view of the meeting of the Committee on Finance. The session will resume at 7:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u16	Let us continue today with the 19.07 adjourned session.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u17	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 27/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u18	Mr President! The aim of this government's proposal is to reduce detention, and I believe that this is justified because detention is a measure that severely restricts fundamental rights. However, as a result of the amendments proposed by the government, asylum seekers would be deprived of their fundamental rights, the workload of reception centres would be increased and housing costs for asylum seekers would increase. Furthermore, as the Refugee Advice Centre points out in its opinion, the proposal does not meet the strictness, accuracy and predictability of the conditions for the limitation of fundamental and human rights. In many respects, the proposal is unclear and difficult to understand. The proposal does not take due account of the obligations of EU legislation, in particular the so-called Reception and Return Directives. The grounds for the obligation to live, the imposition, the cessation and the supervision and the waiver of the obligation to notify have not been laid down with sufficient precision. The obligation to live can only be supported as a genuine alternative to detention. However, as the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has stated in his opinion, in the draft law, the application for alternatives to detention remains at a disadvantage and the real objectives are to improve the efficiency of administrative procedures, to ensure removal and to prepare for potentially increasing numbers of asylum seekers. As the Refugee Advice Centre points out in its opinion, the proposed obligation to live is a restriction on freedom of movement, which, combined with the obligation to register up to four times a day, effectively means interference with personal freedom and at least resembles a situation such as deprivation of liberty. If the residence obligation is accepted in the form proposed, it must be subject to the same conditions, supervision and legal remedies as detention. A maximum length should also be provided for the residence obligation, which should not exceed the maximum duration of detention in accordance with Article 127 of the Aliens Act. It should be noted that the obligation to live, combined with a very strict registration obligation, is in practice similar to house arrest and actual detention. The restriction on personal mobility is particularly important for remote reception centres, from which there is no practical possibility of leaving between registrations. In this case, it may be total detention. It is stated in the motion that there is still a clear need for detention of children in accordance with the Aliens Act. No appropriate justification has been provided for this claim. Detention has been shown to be harmful to children in numerous studies. Finland has already been criticised for the fact that children are also being detained in order to ensure removal. The detention of children should be prohibited because there are other options available to the States, and these options should also be developed in line with the rights and interests of the child. For example, the presentation does not take into account or safeguard the right of the child to attend school. We will then come to the actual reading to suggest that Parliament requires the government to prepare a change in the law on foreigners, which prohibits the detention of children, and we will also propose these paragraphs for amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u19	Mr President! The purpose of the measures to safeguard this bill is to facilitate the determination of the conditions of entry or residence of a person or the removal of a person. And now I would like to ask Mr Semi: according to the latest press reports, we currently have about 4000 people, 4000 asylum seekers, of whom we do not know where they are, and you called for us to have alternatives. Mr Semi, I would like to hear what other options we have but to increase these security measures in reception centres. As a representative of the government party, I personally do not see that we have any other options than to implement this legislation as proposed by the government in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u20	Mr President! We do assume that, in accordance with Article 127 of the Aliens Act, we will start to think about how to monitor and treat these children, that they will not be subjected to detention all day, but that they will be able to move at least a little outside the place where they were detained and have the freedom to attend school. And if you think about reporting four times a day during the day, at least every three hours should be there, and it's pretty tight.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u21	Mr President! This government proposal to introduce this housing obligation is all right and well-founded. If and when the government has the objective of reducing detention, there is a well-functioning means of living, including ensuring the personal safety of the person in the asylum seeker process — not only that society, with this obligation to live, restricts the movement of the person. I see that there is also a big element here that we are able to keep a person, an asylum seeker, a public service, to reduce drift into paperless life and so on. The obligation to register 1 to 4 times a day is probably an appropriate flexible fork to deal with in the case of the asylum seeker in question. If I remember correctly, the Left Alliance's option proposes one time registration within 24 hours. At its worst, this type of registration would allow 24 hours a day to get lost in a paperless life by safe authorities. I consider this proposal from the Left Alliance to be inadequate in that regard, but I support the proposal from the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u22	Mr President! This law on the amendment of the foreign law is a bill specifically specifying the obligation to reside, which guarantees the safety and normal life of the person who entered or removed from the country in the situation in which he lives. It must be remembered that when a person comes to the country, such as a minor child here alone without his parents, he is in a very vulnerable situation and needs protection, which this obligation to live now fulfils very well. Is this about detention? That is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its own opinion, considered and stated that the conditions for punctuality and precision must be met and then these decisions must be clear. That is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said, and the Committee on Administrative Affairs has turned it into an excellent report. In my opinion, there are no problems with human rights or with his person. It is clear that when you come to the country, in this case an asylum seeker, or are being removed from the country, there is a huge variety of risks involved. Children, for example, are at risk of potential abuse, which should be minimised in such a way that it is safe for this person to be in all circumstances when he is here. And then the child, especially when he comes to this country alone in many cases, needs to be carefully taken into account that there will be no bad things going on. Sometimes when you look at this Finnish going in there — for example, in this city and many other Finnish cities where people, children wander around the city center by themselves at night — it always comes to mind whether we Finns should have a similar rule that some kind of obligation could be imposed on the insecure person on the street to care for children at home and not have to walk on the street alone at night. It would make perfect sense, humanly speaking. That is another story, but here I see no problem. The draft law is a good one and the report is very good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u23	Mr President! As a follow-up to these constructive speeches, which previous colleagues have made here, I would like to stress that this government proposal is based on the fact that the obligation to live and possible detention of the child is an alternative to the detention of the child. The obligation of the child to live as an alternative to detention would in particular reduce the detention of unaccompanied persons aged between 15 and 17. Of course, when it comes to taking into account the best interests of the child and the specific needs of the child as a result of a vulnerable position, priority must also be given to the use of alternatives to detention for children. The committee supported this bill with a few comments. It is also particularly important to highlight the need to take into account the resources of the reception centre and the training of staff and, in particular, the safety aspects, so that the reception centres actually have a real chance to carry out the tasks resulting from these new security measures as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u24	Mr President! Finland’s immigration policy has been duly tightened up by the Government and has been the right line. We have people in this country who have no right to be here, and we must also look for solutions to this problem. At the same time, we must be prepared for the possibility of new arrivals and then the system must be in order. Unfortunately, more than a year ago, when this great migration began here in Europe and here to us, we had not been prepared but had neglected the things that should have been put right in time. It is now important that this happens. In the case of children, particular attention must be paid to their safety and this proposal seeks to do so. In this respect, this is a very reasonable, and likewise an obligation to register. It is a security measure that will ultimately benefit both those who come and those who are here in the country and those who live in the country. Risks should always be carefully investigated in advance and minimised. I believe that once this proposal has also been examined and reviewed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is appropriate that this should be the case. There will be work in this area. The Aliens Act is being amended almost weekly and the work needs to be continued in order to keep things under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u25	At this stage, the sitting will be adjourned and resumed at 8.30 p.m. The suspension shall be made for placing the budget report on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u26	Let's resume the adjourned session at 7:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u27	The 11th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 14 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-13-ps-133.u28	The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure for the sole reading of the draft budget be as follows: the representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central assembly. This must be done even if the amendments are included in the objections. I would ask the representatives in their amendment to mention the budget initiative or the number of objections on which the amendment may be based. Amendments to sections 21 to 31 must be submitted to the central office by Wednesday 14 December at the latest. 2 p.m. and other amendments by 12 noon on Thursday 15 December. The proposals will be put together as hate to be distributed to the representatives. The proposals shall be numbered in each section and title, as well as in the general provisions of the detailed explanatory memorandum and in the general statement of reasons, starting with number 1. The debate will begin with a general debate on the entire draft budget. The detailed examination first presents the expenditure, then the revenue, then the general provisions of the detailed explanatory memorandum and the general arguments and finally the proposal for the application of the budget. A general discussion is first allowed for each section, followed by proposals for the section in numerical order. Since the proposals put forward are included in the Minutes, simply referring to the number of the proposal is sufficient. A statement of support shall be made immediately after the intervention of the proposer. Once the proposals have been made, they will be put to the vote. The figures and other items in the section for which no amendments have been proposed shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance. Titles of revenue, general provisions of detailed explanatory notes and general arguments shall not be allowed to be the subject of a general discussion. Otherwise, the procedure is the same as when dealing with the main categories.
