ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. The debate is about to begin. The introduction is made by the Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for the opportunity to present the Chancellor of Justice's report for 2015. The activity report gives an overview of the issues raised by the Chancellor of Justice's Office during the year and the views expressed on them. I picked up a few extremes from a wide range of issues. The topics under consideration ranged from cooperation patterns between Finland and NATO to the indoor air problems of the school. Opinions were issued on proposals for reform of intelligence legislation on the one hand and of early childhood education legislation on the other. The solutions covered both the conditions for a construction permit for a nuclear power plant and the legal security problems of the jobseeker and the applicant for income support. The Attorney General’s Office is a vantage point for a society where legal issues are reflected in one way or another in the Office. Many times they will come to the desks in no time. The reporting year was exceptionally phase-rich in the operating environment of the Attorney General’s Office. The economic situation and its repair needs employed decision-makers and created public concern. The pressure was increased by sudden looted immigration, with its measures and consequences. Questions came to mind: Can a welfare state such as the one used to last any longer, and what about the rule of law? There's not enough good for everyone, but is there any justice? For many reasons, human security was under test. Such concerns were heard in the background by many contacts with the Attorney General’s Office. Complaints to the Attorney General are therefore a very good barometer in the social situation. However, we must also take into account the fact that those in the greatest need for help may not be able to complain. Therefore, even weak signals need to be listened to by law enforcement with a sensitive ear. The current concerns of the people are also reflected in the speeches of the critics printed in the early papers of the report. Risto Sandkataipale, Deputy Attorney General, deals with issues related to work and unemployment from the perspective of the Legal Officer. His speech shows how far-reaching long-term unemployment and its consequences may be. In my own speech, I was thinking about the role of the Chancellor of Justice as a defender of the rule of law and the interface between justice and politics. There is a reason for this reflection. The borders and principles of the rule of law are currently being challenged in many directions, sometimes in the name of good values and objectives. In this respect, judicial control is required to be vigilant and prudent and also to be aware of its own borders. While strict respect for fundamental rights is one of the hallmarks of the rule of law, these provisions also need to be interpreted and sometimes weighed down. The fundamental rights rules have a hard legal core, but the further away you get from it, the more appreciation comes into the interpretation. The application of the provisions requires an assessment of where the legal and political boundaries lie, when the interpretation already exists across the area of justice, which is a matter for value policy rather than for a lawyer. If this limit is blurred, there is a risk that the policy will be interpreted in the robe of justice — or vice versa, the values will become legal minimum requirements. The confusion of justice and politics and, more generally, of expert knowledge and political guidance is, of course, closest to the process of drafting the law. This issue is likely to be faced more and more with the need to reconcile economic scarcity with different values and objectives-based interests in the framework of human and fundamental rights standards. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to raise one further question, which I have also touched on in my speech, namely social legitimacy. It is essential for the functioning of the rule of law that public tasks are governed by law, but it is equally important that people trust them fairly. If confidence in this is undermined and the general acceptability of decisions is undermined, the legitimacy of the public authorities will suffer. Even the Attorney General has a role to play. In my view, the most profound role of the Chancellor of Justice's judicial control is that external and independent judicial control supports confidence in the lawfulness of public decision-making. It involves the accuracy of the outcome, as well as the fact that the procedure itself is perceived to be just. At times, doubts are raised as to the external interference of public authorities in a way that jeopardises objectivity. Such doubts arise, inter alia, in connection with appointments. It is therefore important to pay attention to the decision-making process and to try to open it up. This can, on the one hand, reveal inappropriate motives for decision-making and, on the other hand, dispel unjustified suspicions. There are examples of this in this report. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In this speech, I have touched on some of the general questions that concern my mind as a guardian of law. I have not wanted to burden the audience with the details and statistics contained in the report. However, I would like to mention a couple of indicators describing our activities. We have set ourselves the objective of resolving all complaints within one year. This objective has practically been achieved. There are currently only a few pending complaints for more than a year. On average, complaints will be resolved in less than three months. The most important form of control by the Government is the preliminary inspection of matters going to the General Session. The importance of this so-called list check is reflected in the fact that around 15% of the agendas identify shortcomings or errors requiring correction. The tasks related to government control must be able to react very quickly if necessary, even in a hurry, without compromising the quality. The wide range of expertise provided by the Attorney General’s Office has a key role to play in achieving this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u3	Mr President! Thank you to the Attorney General for an interesting report and presentation. The report deals with a number of important themes, including employment policy and social security issues, and, as the Chancellor of Justice said, complaints have increased and the most vulnerable are not even able to complain themselves. In my own speech, however, I would like to raise a completely different issue, namely the drafting of legislation and the preparation of matters in general, which the Chancellor of Justice was concerned about in his report. Over the past year, too many ill-prepared legislative proposals have come before Parliament. As the Chancellor of Justice points out, in the worst case scenario, a legislative proposal drawn up with too fast a timetable may contain contradictions and ambiguities. The appeal to urgency is questionable, because laws often affect the lives of citizens for a long time, and that is why I think it is unethical to do law-making too quickly. It is a question of legal protection for citizens. The level and extent of evaluations of draft laws also vary considerably and some proposals do not include any assessments. In this Chamber, too, many times have been asked where are the impact assessments or alternative cost calculations. One example is the shortcomings in child impact assessments, although the government promised to do them in its early stages. Another example is that there have been numerous legislative proposals which affect the livelihood of families with children, but these proposals have been brought to the table as separate issues and the overall impact of these separate legislative proposals has not been presented anywhere. In fact, poverty among families with children threatens to grow and deepen in a worrying way. Mr President! For the successful work of a representative of Parliament, it is essential that the rules agreed in Parliament be respected. One important tool for the representative of Parliament, and in particular the opposition representative, is a written question. The deadline for replying to a written question has been set at 21 days, and many ministries are doing this well and even excellently. However, I have also noticed and received feedback from colleagues that in some ministries timetables are often not kept. As far as I am concerned, it took almost 60 days to give an answer and, having received an answer, I found that my question had not been answered at all, but that the so-called answer was about something other than what I had asked. I asked a new question on the same subject, while giving feedback on the quality of the previous answer. On the second occasion, my question had been answered well and very properly, but again by way of time. In other words, when I should have had an answer in three weeks, it took me more than three months to get an answer to my question. Do we not have to comply with these deadlines? Of course there may sometimes be a delay, and I am not surprised, but when the same happens often in certain ministries, one cannot help asking why this is and should not be done about it. I would like to ask the Chancellor of Justice: how should these delays be viewed as an ordinary Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This report by the Chancellor of Justice last year would contain a number of points which would be interesting for discussion and it is good that various issues have been addressed. For example, the Chancellor of Justice has dealt with a complaint about political appointments when Krista Kiuru, Minister of Education and Communications, appointed the Director of the National Education Evaluation Centre Karvi, and this issue has, among other things, been widely discussed here, and political appointments are one of the things that has often been discussed in this Chamber. The decision-making process at Malmi Airport is also raised in the Chancellor of Justice's report, and that is something I would like to talk about. But at this point I wanted to bring to the debate the decision of the Chancellor of Justice, in which he criticises a city for being too slow to deal with the indoor air problems of the school. This is an issue on which a great deal of research and work has also been carried out in Parliament. Attorney General Jaakko Jonkka dealt with a complaint in which, according to the complainant, over five years, as many as 20 teachers and pupils had had to leave their work due to indoor health problems. According to a report from the city, the school building had had indoor air problems for years and had been renovated several times over the years, but it had proved exceptionally difficult to repair. This school was built in 64 C.E., and the first corrections due to indoor problems were made in 2007-2008, and damage repairs were made later in 2010-2012, which was only a few years after that renovation. The city's studies did not show when the first suspicions of these indoor problems had come to the attention of the authorities responsible for basic education, and this is quite a big problem at the moment in many municipalities — day-care centres, schools or even old-age homes, service institutions: these kinds of problems are unfortunately kept quiet and are not addressed with the severity they should be. Last week I was contacted by a young teacher who has only been a teacher for a few years, and at the moment she is unable to do the teacher’s work because she has had such difficult health problems with indoor air problems. Attorney General Jonkka also found fault with the way the city had applied public access to documents. For years, the City Farm Centre had refused to give documents related to the school’s indoor air problems to those asking for them. You might well ask why such information is not provided. And when this complaint was made about five years, it is often fatal for a working teacher or other staff there, but consider the children who have been in those five years, almost their entire primary school age, in these classrooms — what health problems may have come to them? Indoor air problems in public spaces, in other words schools and so on, are a very wide-ranging problem in our country. Indoor air problems are estimated to affect up to 600,000 to 800,000 people per year. They are exposed to moisture and mold damage every day. Problems exist in both public and private buildings, and sickness and repair work are costly. Governments have made different kinds of moldings, correctional blocks, but nevertheless these problems continue. The problems of public farms alone are extensive and entail billions of costs. The Parliament intervened through a report it made four years ago, which found that there are 172,000 to 259200 people in the damaged buildings and schools, from 36,000 to 47,000 in the care establishments and from 27500 to up to 55,000 in the offices. This gives us a little insight into how big the problem is. It's not just about mold problems. The indoor air problems of public spaces are not always caused by mould, but by different problems caused by carpets and moisture, for example. The newspaper Kaleva once did a story describing these cases and in fact it was explained that up to three cases in four were caused by this type of carpet-moisturisation combination and that it was not a traditional mold problem. Indoor air problems are often also caused by various ventilation problems. According to Juha Vinha, Professor of Construction Physics at Tampere University of Technology, problems are caused by the poor maintenance and maintenance of buildings. In old buildings, ventilation can cause problems if the structures leak at any point and there are impurities, microbes, or radon. If the pressure controls of the air conditioning are not correct, Vinha says that strong underpressures can be created in the building, and ventilation absorbs pollutants from the structures to the indoor air. This has been raised in more and more debates. Pressure differentials over structures have been so small in gravity that they have not generally caused this type of problem, many of which are now caused by air conditioning. A couple of years ago it was reported that the City of Tampere survey suspected that more than 30 schools had some kind of indoor air problems. At the same time, buildings controlled by the City of Tampere had, due to energy savings, limited ventilation so that air conditioning was shut down or reduced when buildings were not used. One might well now wonder how big the problem is, in fact, with the construction of buildings and the unskilled use of buildings. At the State Sports Council in sports construction, we expanded and obliged each new sports place to keep a maintenance record of what is being done in the building during its life cycle. We had a situation where the government sought support for renovations at a sports facility that was less than ten years old. So the need for renovation had come in less than ten years. Then you can ask what is the reason why the property is so quickly needed for renovation. At least it would be good if such a maintenance obligation were forced to keep track of what is being done in these buildings. The second big question, then, where perhaps more has been addressed, is construction. Drying times must be long enough, and one big question, which I believe should even be considered by legislation in the midst of all the beginnings of the norm, is that the protection of moisture during the construction period should be confirmed in some way as the main rule. In fact, it would not increase the cost of construction very much. It would also facilitate construction in bad weather, cold weather and protect these structures from moisture damage. We have some good examples: In the midst of all these indoor air problems, the city of Pudasjärvi decided to build public spaces from the log, and now Lake Pudas has the largest log school in the world. It is interesting to see what is happening there with indoor air issues — I personally believe that not the problems that have now been seen in these concrete bunkers, and it is unfortunate that those concrete bunkers where these indoor air problems exist have been built not only in the 60s to 70s but in the last few years. I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for the fact that his report has also addressed this issue through a complaint, but these matters must be put right without the need for any complaints from teachers, parents or others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u5	Mr President! Mr. Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the presentation made just now by the Chancellor of Justice and also in the introductory text of the Chancellor of Justice's report on pages 12 and 13 of this report, the Chancellor of Justice draws attention to a phenomenon called fundamentalism. Of course, the Chancellor of Justice does not use this expression but quotes Professor Emeritus Markku Helin's article, which Professor Markku Helin is the father of this expression. The Chancellor of Justice writes this: "The Constitutional Law and, in particular,the Fundamental Rights However, it should be noted that the provisions on fundamental rights have a core area of substance. An experienced lawmaker and lawyer professor writes: The balance will be shaken if the values enshrined in the Constitution are not taken seriously. But it will also be shaken if ‘Constitutional experts consider that they can provide scientific answers to questions that are political’. The author stresses that constitutional issues cannot be solved by mere expert knowledge. “The question in the interpretation of fundamental laws is how fundamental rights express values—equality,the freedom of Assessing this is the work of value politicians rather than lawyers.” Mr. Speaker! I am very pleased that the high law enforcement officer, the high lawyer, the Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to this phenomenon, which I myself have paid some attention to. We are now hearing the views of these fundamental rights fundamentalists in the media and in the recent state seminar that fundamental rights or human rights are not in fashion or that the Constitutional Committee is not paying sufficient attention to them when it comes to the fact that there are other interpretations in these matters than those that they believe are right. The most recent interpretation of the dispute has arisen as to whether foreigners who are illegally present in Finland will also receive the same income security, normal income support, as legally available to people in Finland. We know that last year more than 32,000 asylum seekers came to Finland and will be able to find a solution to their asylum application in the course of next year. We already know that there will be a lot of negative decisions that will have the force of law, and that a conversion decision taken in the same context will also have the power of law. However, according to the police's assessment and all other estimates, hundreds, unfortunately even thousands of people will remain in Finland who have received a final negative decision on their asylum application, who should leave our country, to which there are no objective obstacles, but who do not agree to leave our country, but illegally remain in Finland. What is the right of these people to income support? This last conversation started a few weeks ago with the YLE news headlined "Did you know? Finland provides income support for foreigners who remain in the country without permission." Well, I really didn't know. And this news, which incorrectly refers, among other things, to the decision taken last December by the Assistant Ombudsman, Mr Sakslin, which did not at all concern foreigners staying illegally, claims that these foreigners who remain illegally would be entitled to equal income support to those who are legally resident. I also gave my own assessment of this and I said it, and I say now that, of course, when Finland is a civilized country, Finland is the rule of law, every person in Finland, for example a tourist who has lost his money, is given sufficient support to the fact that he has sufficient food, he may have the necessary medicines, he has adequate accommodation, at least in the cold — this is the rule of law in Finland, it already leaves the European Convention on Human Rights and all our other international obligations — that is to say, every person in Finland is ultimately cared for, but the notion that such a person, whether a moneyless tourist or an illegal foreigner in Finland, would be entitled to income support, for example, provided for in the Income Support Act, as for legitimate people in the country, is of course not justified and not required by our Constitution. This is what I said to the YLE. This was followed by a school of fundamentalists. Professor Lavapuro of this school commented on my correct interpretation of the Finnish Constitution and international treaties binding on Finland in Yle’s news. If Professor Lavapuro has been quoted correctly, his understanding is completely incomprehensible. I'll read these quotes. "However,the interpretation of Zyskowicz is problematic according to Lavapuro because it puts "People are equal. Not Finns. People. This — that is, Article 19(1) of the Constitution — applies to everyone and we have no reason to treat them differently.' "According to the lavapuro, the Constitution is, however, "Every person who is denied the right to If you are not satisfied with it, you can change the Constitution," says Lavapuro arrogantly. Dear friends, the Constitution, 19.1, of course, guarantees everyone in Finland the right to be provided with food, care for, for example, his needed medicines, care for his accommodation. But the interpretation that we should not make a distinction based on whether a person is in Finland contrary to Finnish law or whether he is in Finland quite normally, legally, foreign or Finnish is a real bottom line. Of course we'll get this breakup and we'll have to do it. If a person is illegal in Finland, it means that our entire legal system, ultimately the Supreme Administrative Court in these cases, has stated that the person concerned has no legal basis to be in Finland. Then our legal order requires and assumes and expects such an illegal person to leave Finland as soon as possible. And so I am in favour of being given a ticket to the country of origin as income support. Now, if we were to assume that such a person is entitled to normal income support, for example, for a month at a time, that would be contrary to the whole thinking on which our legal order has been based in the case of the person concerned when he has received a negative decision and has a valid proselytizing decision to follow. This is such a strange interpretation that I'm running out of words.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u10	All right, we're gonna open a round of answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u11	Mr President! There is not enough good for everyone, and in that respect I agree with Mr Zyskowicz's views. But this immigration policy in general also presents other challenges than this matter of income support. I say, as the Chancellor of Justice said in his speech, that the interface between justice and politics sparked. It is important for the functioning of the rule of law that the performance of public tasks is governed by law. In recent days, citizens have been shocked by the decisions of the Finnish Immigration Service to return to their country of origin an Afghan woman fleeing forced marriage and honour murder and also a Pakistani pastor fleeing blasphemy charges with his family. The question arises as to whether the number of asylum seekers has been decided politically in advance. These are serious issues, that is, the rule of law and what will happen to a small welfare state in the north, as the Chancellor of Justice said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u12	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is in an agitated state of mind, gave a good speech and took some oatmeal and grits into it. So, as Mrs Zyskowicz, who has been President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for eight years, well knows, what is being discussed in public and what the media are quoting is far from what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs then interprets. As Mrs Zyskowicz and others will be well aware, it is up to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to examine the constitutionality of the legislative proposals before it and the respect for human rights treaties. In that sense, these premature hopes can of course be expressed when we respect freedom of expression. But I am very pleased that Mr Zyskowicz's speech clearly stated that fundamental rights and human rights belong to everyone, regardless of the country in which they are based.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u13	Mr President! It is easy to join Mr Zyskowicz in saying that the interpretation of the Constitution is always in a certain way value-related. It is, of course, pointless to imagine that this would be pure, purely legal, when we consider how our fundamental rights in individual cases will be interpreted when we come to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs with government proposals for an opinion. It has sometimes been suggested that a constitutional court should be set up in Finland to get rid of this problem. But I think this would be the wrong way. We in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have quite often shown that our system is quite functional. And even in those countries where there is a constitutional court, that policy and value-dependence goes inside the court. I do not want to go now to assess the positions of individual researchers or professors, however, they have the right to do so, but, as the chairman of the committee said earlier, the Constitutional Committee ultimately does and assesses it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u14	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz's reflection was entirely correct and at the heart of the matter. The interpretation of the Constitution, as it has described, would completely undermine the whole asylum investigation and its decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u15	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has been used to being seen as a committee in which party political interests are not represented in such a way as in the substance committees. This cannot mean that the members of the Constitutional Committee cannot still act as value politicians, as has been called for here. I understand that in a way the Constitution has written down the values that we all share in Finnish society. Although it is referred to as the highest level of the hierarchy of standards, it is a question of fundamental values common to us and it is then interpreted jointly by the committee there. It is important to bear this in mind. As far as Mr Zyskowicz's important speech and the challenge to the Constitutional Committee are concerned, I think that this now relates to the need to interpret the Constitution as a whole, not just as a single piece of legislation, as a single piece of legislation. When we look at Chapter 2 of the Constitution, Section 6 'No one should be put in a different position without an acceptable basis', and so on. This must be borne in mind when interpreted
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u16	Mr President! I would like to point out that these constitutional fundamentalists, mentioned by Mr Zyskowicz, — that is how the expression went — are not just any individual users of freedom of expression, but many of them and their statements play a key role in the kind of legislation that goes through the Constitutional Committee in this country. Their statements in public cannot be overstepped by the fact that they have the right to say what they want. Now, in recent days, it has become, among other things, statements that take a stand on the experience of the representatives of individual members of the Constitutional Committee and on such completely incomprehensible issues which are calling into question the objectivity of these people as experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u17	Mr President! It may be asked that when it comes to an issue on which all of our constitutional experts in the first chain agree more or less, and here the politicians disagree with them, does it not then come to the area where the Constitution is being politicised? The "everyone" of the new Constitution does not distinguish between people according to legality and lawlessness, but the essence is to stay in Finnish jurisdiction. Everyone means everyone. As far as income support is concerned, it is also essential to determine whether these persons are entitled to income support, whether income support is defined as a necessary income for which the Constitution confers a subjective right. On the other hand, whether or not to stay in the country without a residence permit is not a key factor in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u18	Mr President! We are talking about fundamental rights here, and one fundamental right is to complain about issues such as health care. In this book, Mr Chancellor of Justice, you have mentioned two complaints about the theme of health care and you have rightly mentioned in your speech that the complaint is a barometer of society, which tells us how we are doing and whether we can make everyone hear — including the quietest ones that we must all worry about. I would like to ask you whether, over the years, you have seen what progress has been made in the number of complaints: which issues become complaints, which context and where are they possibly decreasing? However, we have very visible social and health care issues and patient injuries. One might imagine that there is a possibility that there will be even more complaints there, if there is one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u19	Mr President! I also support Mr Zyskowicz's views on this role in the Constitutional Committee. Similarly, Mr Kantola's view that the Constitutional Committee has a role to play in interpreting this society, as if with values. I believe that a constitutional assessment should be made in the context of the values we live in at any given time. However, in our society things are changing and situations are changing, and the Constitutional Committee has, even in the near future, had different views about this smoking, for example, in a car when there is a child in the car. For justifiable reasons today, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken a different position. In other words, the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee can certainly be changed, and I believe that the Constitution should be more possible than restrictive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u20	Mr President! We all believe that we live in the rule of law. The debate started with the question of the right of illegal residents to services of different appearances. I dare say that if we send a message from here that there is no need to comply with the law, that is, if someone has stated that you do not have the right to be here, then whether the message is that you do not have to comply with the law, which means that you have an open mandate not to comply with all other laws. Therefore, I absolutely agree with what I think Mr Zyskowicz is saying that those who are illegally present in the country do not have the same rights as the rest of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u21	Mr President! Representative Lapintie, I am not in an agitated state of mind but as calm as I always am. Mr Kontula, I have not noticed that any constitutional scholar other than Lavapuro has put forward such a completely strange position, and now you, as another person, have enrolled in this group. I would stress that I agree with the Assistant Ombudsman, Mr Sakslin, that in any case individual consideration should be made. If we have a person in an illegal country whose child is in hospital for the next three weeks, for example, it is only natural that this person should be given sufficient income for this three weeks and not be required to leave immediately. Finally, Mr Lapintie, you now have the Ombudsman's report on 15 years in the Constitutional Committee, which refers to the Sakslin case. And for example, summer was a matter where you took a stand without any law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u22	Mr President! This is obviously the interpretation of Article 19(1) of the Constitution, namely that 'any person unable to provide the security necessary for a decent life has the right to the necessary livelihood and care'. At this point, as Mr Zyskowicz pointed out, the Assistant Ombudsman has taken the view that a residence permit is not a prerequisite for living and that all residents of Finland should receive income support. However, if you take a closer look at this statement by Sakslin, it does not say exactly that, but actually takes the view that, when there is not yet a final decision on the negative decision of this person on asylum, it could at that point be a question of income support. But whatever the case, in any case, I see that this 'necessary' — if interpreted as 'necessary' — would mean rather that food, accommodation and a one-way ticket to the country of origin could be necessary;
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u23	Mr President! I did not take the same position as Lavapuro, because I am not a constitutional expert, I do not dare to make a leap so long that I think that income support is a subjective right for undocumented people in Finland. Instead of what the word 'everyone' means in our Constitution in this context, I remember reading both Professor Ojanen and Professor Viljanen's statement, an article on the subject. Now I have to work with memory, which means I may be wrong, but I can check this out afterwards. I therefore dared to talk about the fact that the first line of fundamental rights experts is quite unanimous on this issue. Together with Mr Zyskowicz, we will be able to take a closer look at the drafts of the new Constitution after this sitting and see what they say there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u24	Mr President! I have familiarised myself with the drafts of the fundamental rights reform, and there is no difference here that Article 19 of the Constitution does not apply. Paragraph 1 states that everyone — everyone — in Finland is entitled to the necessary income. There is a difference of opinion about the fact that, according to Lavapuro, if he has been correctly referred to, these illegal persons in our country have the same right to income support — that is to say, income support, which is intended for various things listed in the Income Support Act — as opposed to those who are legally in Finland. This is not the case and this cannot be the case. We cannot find, I do not believe, a Constitutional Committee in Finland that could confirm this interpretation. I do not think there is such a committee in Finland. Finally, I had to say something else, but I forgot.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u25	Mr President! There were surprisingly few complaints in the Chancellor of Justice's report about the implementation of the farmer's legal protection. Our policy in the Government Programme was also to improve this point and improve the protection of the farmer's property. At the moment, the protection of the farmer's property is not subject to domestic peace, and therefore the farms are quite vulnerable to attacks by various activists. But the most important thing that is not properly considered to be the case is that our support controls, as well as controls, payments and sanctions, do not seem to be being carried out fairly. The mere fact that the delay in payments did not give rise to any interest on late payments was not to complain about whether the farmer received it on time, and, in fact, if there were some confusion, for example in the case of environmental aid, it has still not been received by the farmers of last year, even if it should be fully paid, if not all the controls and reports in this respect, from the parts of the confusion, have not been collected. There is still no protocol on controls for the farmer, there is no information as to whether the controls have been detected or not. Even if it is said orally that things are in order, the monitoring protocol that will appear in six months may prove to have consequences. But above all, the reasonableness of sanctions would be an issue that should be addressed. I will read directly from the March e-mail of a citizen: "We had a visit from the Mav inspectors Some 170 animals were examined in a good spirit, and the result was 99% correct. There were delays in birth reports for only three calves. Today there was an animal inspection, and that too went reasonably well: 185 animals were monitored, there was no delay in removals, earrings were OK. For a few calves there was a few days past, and there was a mistake at the holding place of three mating bulls, although of course the animals were now on the farm, they were entering another place in the summer. I would therefore like to ask how it is consistent with the Constitution and the general case law of the legislator that, once the law on cross-compliance has now entered into force and an interpretation has been tightened up, the mistakes made before the new interpretation comes into force will now be punished. So if the case law changes and the previous practice has been followed, can it be that sanctions are imposed on the old practice? In addition, Mav’s inspectors did not report this retention error at the time of their inspection in 2014. In this case, the sanction was approximately EUR 5000, and in addition, the farmer is subjected to three years of special monitoring. The farmer asks what this type of idiotism has to do with food safety. Well, nothing, of course, and it does seem unreasonable that old offences, which, in fact, no one in this Chamber will feel so guilty that the bull has been in another pasture and it has not been understood that it has been reported, but it has been preserved, and this type of sanction can then be as much as 5000 euros. On top of that, I would like to raise a very painful point in the legislation on agricultural leave. The person had applied for an invalidity pension, it was not accepted, he complained about this. As a result, the farmer cannot receive replacement aid. So a farmer has no right to suffer if he is in the middle of a judicial process. I do not think that this is in line with legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u26	Mr President! Thank you to the Attorney General for an interesting report. I would like to add to this debate a continuation of this political and legal problem. I quote right from the start of the report: 'Professors are brakers — even in situations where the gas should actually be pressed. Legal scholars are obstacles to development rather than drivers. There will be no reform of the law in hand." Although this may be a bit of a startling opening, it is still timely and a good lift to the debate. I have to say out loud that lawyers are people, too. People have a desire to influence their environment, and so do lawyers. Sometimes lawyers can be brakers when applying for legal interpretations that promote their own world view and outlook. This is reflected in particular by the human rights lawyers who interpret the Constitution, to whom the interpretation of the law may even be a way of making a policy — or at least it seems to be — which they do not have to pursue as lawyers. The fact is that neither lawyers nor experts have received any votes that can be passed by the mandate. Their job is to obey the laws and comment when asking for the laws. The second thing that comes to mind is this debate on impact assessments and their use as a political percussion weapon. There seems to be a fad in the discussions today that if a decision or a proposal is displeased, then the first argument, which is dug up, is that this, this and this impact assessment have not been made. If an impact assessment is carried out, the following answer is that an impact assessment is not acceptable. It is always someone who does the impact assessments, and the person who does them is typically an official or expert who still cannot be exchanged by the people. Politicians can change the people. Mr President! In my opinion, we must emphasise Parliament's power to decide on these matters. We can be changed by the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u27	Mr President! There was a speech here that criticised the quality of the drafting of the law. However, it is not up to the Chancellor of Justice to take part in the drafting of the legislation itself. However, you have a major and important role to play in the preliminary supervision of the Government. The drafting of the law can be in contact with the Oikeus Chancellor’s Office when considering and assessing issues relating to the fundamental and human rights issue. I would like to ask you: what kind of contact do you receive, and are we in contact with you? Mr President! Then I will return to this question of health care: a complaint has been examined here, among other things, with regard to the delay in the matter, in which the complainant has asked for the correction of the incorrect information in the patient file and it has been done with a long delay, but apparently then it has been carried out. These are just the little things that I mentioned in my first speech: how can all those who do not necessarily understand and do not know this process, how does the complaint go forward and what can be complained of make their voices heard? I have to say that this is a theme that I have also received email from myself. There has been a person who has been a patient, and then he feels that the diagnostic data on him has been incorrect in some respects, and he wonders how they can then be corrected and what kind of process they will have to undergo. I would ask you: how do we make these voices heard?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u28	Mr President! I would also like to comment, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said, on the level of legislative drafting. For example, the long-term Secretary-General of Parliament Mr Tiitinen took a position on the matter when he retired at the turn of the year and thought that one of the reasons for the deterioration was that individual liquidators were increasingly being used instead of multi-member working groups. In previous decades, these working groups were more common in the preparation of legislative projects. Although there may not be a need to return to these heavy rowing committee times in some places, it is true that, in the preparation of individual liquidators, laws are necessarily narrower than if this had been done in a group that weighs more heavily on different aspects. The problem is also that the timetables for new legal projects are too tight. I could list a series of proposals with a short period of consultation or even a request for opinions in the summer, which, for example, has been almost impossible for municipalities to give opinions when they have not been able to meet. We also have major reforms that go beyond the parliamentary term, for example now the reform of social and regional self-government. With regard to education too, there would be a need for a more long-term policy than just the parliamentary term, and I would prefer to see the preparation of the parliamentary group, where all parties, regardless of the government base, would be committed to taking these reforms forward with regard to major projects. Impact assessments are also often lacking, lack of financial calculations or incomplete, no gender impact assessment or impact assessments have been carried out on the status of children. It would be good not to compromise quality in a hurry either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u29	Mr President! There is much to be said about this book, but I will confine myself to one thing which is close to me and which Mr Heinonen, for example, has already spoken about. So here's the headline: "The indoor air problems in school should have been tackled more quickly". Indeed, last night there was this information about the citizens, and I have tabled an initiative on indoor air measures, and I would like to refer to my speech yesterday. According to the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, at least 800,000 people are exposed to indoor air problems every day. Exposure to moisture damage can occur in homes, day care centres, schools and workplaces. Much has been said about the ways of construction and repair, and the right ways and solutions have been sought for them, as well as the correct use of buildings are instructed. Yet, due to moisture damage, those who have already been affected have been far too neglected. The number of people who are sensitive to chemicals and who are sick is constantly increasing, and children are increasing among those who are affected. According to a number of international studies, this is a highly growing public health problem that increases disability and exclusion. If the symptoms are not responded to in time and in the right way, the disease will become chronic and cause significant consequences for the lives of the affected, such as loss of livelihood, job or place of study, economic collapse, social isolation and even homelessness. In many indoor air, the symptoms of a sufferer are not taken seriously, but are recorded against the will of those concerned, often as mental illnesses in mental patient statistics. This is the experience of a large proportion of the sick, so the statistical error that arises is expected to be significant. Identification of disease at the earliest possible stage and early intervention are prerequisites for preventing the disease from getting worse. Falling from working life or social exclusion of young people due to indoor air disease entails higher costs for society than prevention or rehabilitation. In 2015, environmental sensitivity was added to the international classification of ICD-10 diseases in Finland under the heading R68.81, i.e. continuous or repeated exceptional sensitivity to conventional environmental factors. This code does not describe the illness but the symptoms and thus does not justify, for example, social insurance benefits. So the code does not provide rehabilitative help to indoor sufferers. For the time being, it is also not specified whether indoor moisture damage microbes and chemicals are included in these normal factors. If Kela does not admit an indoor air-borne symptom picture as an illness, the sickness allowance will not be received. You cannot be unemployed at the same time when applying for sickness allowance. In addition, an indoor sick person cannot receive sickness pension or the necessary daily assistance and support even if he/she has been permanently disabled when there is no official disease or evidence of disability. Pensions and occupational and occupational diseases related to indoor air diseases are mainly not being compensated for at the moment. Rehabilitative measures are occasionally replaced when a diagnosis is made of something other than indoor air disease itself. Even those who are in a difficult situation today are deprived of social assistance or support and do not enjoy the same constitutional rights as other citizens. We recently received information about this from angry mothers. Directing the sick to various behavioral therapies with the aim of learning to tolerate, among other things, exposure to homethoxyne has increased. The Institute of Occupational Health directs environmentally ill people into these therapies and systematically even small children who are symptomatic of what is called mold schools. Through experience, the best way to promote improvement is to avoid exposure. Mr President! The identification, diagnosis and treatment of the associated symptoms of various predispositions have not yet been included in the medical training in Finland. Official medical training continues to suggest that the diseases caused by environmental poisons are purely psychosomatic. Getting medical training and general knowledge to a state-of-the-art level is one of the basic prerequisites for creating new support and operating systems in the country to prevent the fall of the sick from normal life. Finally, I can conclude by saying that the sick need new diagnostic numbers in order to support measures to prevent further illness, support for rehabilitation, employment, the purchase of suitable housing for the sick and equal social security. In addition, there is a need for up-to-date training in the diagnosis and treatment of the sick. After all, on 2 May 2013, the Audit Committee adopted a report in which it proposed 14 different contributions to Parliament for adoption. It's worth everyone getting to know. Mr President! I hope that this difficult issue can be taken up here in Parliament. When talking about an equal person, I think of the very young children, the tens of thousands who go to mold schools today — there may be children who never get better from it — and the thousands of adults in working life who have lost their jobs, even an apartment, because they cannot live in ordinary homes, that they prefer to live in a tent or on a balcony. — This is very brief, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u30	Mr President! Somehow in recent years it has been fashionable for politicians to blame legal scientists for politics when the comments of legal scientists are not pleasing. It is true that the Constitution is not forever. Several changes have been made to the Constitution during its history, and even more often it is customary in Finland to stretch the content of the Constitution through interpretation. But the Constitution is also not something that needs to be bent and changed in a climate of values, as someone here put it. The Constitution is by definition conservative in its nature and idea. It is designed to equalize the winds of the world and the swings of the values of the atmospheres. This is already reflected in the fact that it is behind a difficult adjustment order. It is also reflected in the fact that, elsewhere, the Constitution is most often behind the Court of Justice and we too, the first interpreter, the Constitutional Committee, sees its role as independent of other political interests. Finally, the conservative nature of the Constitution is the fact that its minimum level is defined by international human rights treaties, which in due course have been created to protect people from the stupidities of politicians, from the political decisions that have led to terrible results in human history. The Constitution and its content are therefore not a matter of tantrum; it is a question which must be taken seriously, understood its meaning, understood its role in this decision-making system of ours. Well, when it comes to the paperless. The paperless are a relatively new matter for us politically. I know a lot of politicians who, for the first time, had to reflect on the issue of paperlessness only a few years ago when the issue was raised in Parliament in connection with legislation on health care. From the point of view of the international human rights debate, however, paperless is a very old question. From the point of view of our fundamental rights reform moving from 'everybody' to 'everybody' is not a terrible radical reform, but in good line with what the international debate on human rights is going on. It is clear that what this 'everyone' means in relation to undocumented people is only gradually clarified by interpretation. It is also clear that we have a lot of obsolete legislation, a lot of legislation which may not be in line with the new constitution or which has not been reviewed in the new constitution. They will then be gradually modified as soon as the matter becomes topical, through the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the spring of 2015, we made a big change in our immigration policy when it was decided that those people who cannot be returned because of international agreements and who refuse to return voluntarily would be left out of all regulation as if they did not exist. When this matter was in the debate, I tried very hard to ask what we will do when there are hundreds of these people, what we will do when there are thousands of these people, when we have thousands of people who are totally or substantially on the margins from our legal order and who are demanding a whole new special measure from us. At the time, no one wanted to talk about it. Now it feels very actual. If paperlessness were to get rid of the world by denying it, it would have been in many other countries, where paperlessness has been much longer than in Finland, taken care of long ago. It doesn't work, it doesn't work that way, that's what we can at least learn by looking around a little. Nor can we from Finland, as long as we have some sort of welfare structures, make such a bad offer that people should return to the conditions that many of them have come from. Furthermore, it is clear that this system of ours will not last indefinitely to avoid this issue. And here I would like to return to the report of the Chancellor of Justice and the Chancellor of Justice, the Ombudsman and its activities. These are those from whom I would like to make a more detailed statement, more of a line in relation to our existing legislation and how it should be implemented in the case of the undocumented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u31	We will continue with the list of speakers, and if there is a need to speak, you can ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u32	Mr President! Here in the report, page 146 deals with the solutions adopted, and here we have discussed the solution adopted by the Supreme Administrative Court on 19 July. On November 1, 2014, when the Supreme Administrative Court outlawed the decision of the Ministry of Education and Culture on the Finnish People's Foundation's application for help for youth activities for 2013. Personally, of course, this is an interesting solution here to read and look at the statement made by the Chancellor of Justice when I myself have been making this complaint in due course. First of all, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for his well-considered and well-considered consideration and statements. Here, the Chancellor of Justice states that 'the officials involved in the case of the Ministry had committed an unlawful act in setting up their decisions in addition to those of the organisation in political statements and in not consulting the organisation on those statements which had had an impact on the decision of the Ministry'. It is particularly significant that the decision was indeed made by the fact that it was seen as unlawful that the decision was based on the political positions taken by the organization. In time, this decision was taken when Mr Paavo Arhinmäki was Minister for Culture and Sport — this was, of course, done as a civil servant, as a proposal to the Minister. What is interesting about this decision by the Supreme Administrative Court and in this description by the Chancellor of Justice is that, in my opinion, there is a very strong defence of freedom of expression and opinion, which is very good. But what I raised to Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen when it came to the youth law, its reform, is, of course, what the Chancellor of Justice here, when the reform work is under way, is that the law should be clarified in this respect. We must be careful that the Youth Act does not reduce freedom of expression and opinion, for example, in the context of such consideration of state aid. In their opinion, what was at issue in this decision on the Finnish Foundation for Youth at the time in relation to this political opinion, which was taken by the officials of the Ministry of Education and Culture, was that "the views of the organisation on matters relating to multiculturalism have conflicted with the value base of the Youth Act". In other words, as we see, there is a direct reference to the Youth Act, its value base, that is, to the legislation that is now being reformed. Of course, the question arises as to where the limit goes, in a way, when, for example, in the case of state aid, it can be considered that an organisation which is seeking aid on an otherwise factual basis would then be prevented from receiving the aid. In time, when this was being discussed, the media rightly pointed out, in my view, that at the same time, for example, the youth of the Coalition Party had made a statement that incitement against the people should be abolished. However, it had not prevented them from receiving State aid. In other words, it is very difficult to consider this kind of thing, that what is then in the Youth Act is the value base on which some organization would be forced to refuse state aid. And that is why I think it is important that both the Supreme Administrative Court and the Chancellor of Justice, in their own interpretation, see that freedom of expression and opinion must have a very important weight and cannot go on very lightly to define what a political organisation may think about a political issue. What has also made this a very problematic question at the time, and it seems to continue to do so, is that these proposals on state aid for youth organisations are made by a partly politically appointed committee, which therefore includes actors who have been active or active in political parties or political youth organisations. In that sense too, it is very difficult to think about how such actors could in a way assess the right of other political actors to form their opinions on political issues. I hope that Mr Grahn-Laasonen will also make a real effort to ensure that freedom of expression and opinion is respected as far as possible, otherwise within the limits of general law and good taste. That is what I want to say about what Mr Kontula said and wondered: I am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs myself, and there must be constant reflection on the relationship of Finnish society to the Constitution, how it is interpreted. I do not believe that anyone wants to close the mouth of legal scholars in public to express their views, and they really need to express their views, especially if the journalist asks for them. But what is problematic from the point of view of a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that if there is a feeling that, in a way of public opinion, there would be a certain direction of decision-making or, I would say, too much of the thinking of people in such a way as to overlook the fact that there are democratically elected MPs who are then assessing and then ultimately deciding these matters, and then ultimately their judgment will be based on how the views of the legal scholars will then be taken into account in that decision. However, it is often the case that even the views of legal scholars are very much divided. So, in a way, such qualified majority judgement that the majority of legal scholars would be of this opinion and that a certain decision can be made on the basis of it, it is the case that, in a few cases, this is the case, but rather a qualitative judgement, that is, the basis for the best argument, then the report or opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And with regard to the issue of paperless people, I understand in itself the view of this representative, Mr Kontula, that the paperless should be taken into account in some way in law, and the existence of this group cannot be denied, but, on the other hand, I think it is an extraordinary idea that it would make no difference whether it is illegal or legally in the country, for example, as regards the interpretation of whether or not it is to receive income support. In my view — referring to what Mr Kontula said — it does not work and it is not right to think that all the same rights are undocumented as those of a Finnish citizen. In other words, there must be some distinction between legal and illegal, and that is what the committee must do here. But, indeed, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for his excellent report, and with these comments I also wanted to give the current Minister of Education a few words on the fact that such a case has been a case of freedom of speech and opinion in the past, and this should also be taken into account when it comes to turning this new law on young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u33	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, Parliament and the Constitutional Committee had to stop attempts to get a social solution to Finland. A paper was brought to the committee which could not be said because it was not a government bill. Then there were a couple of legislative proposals, another government proposal and then a quick committee proposal, and all these came across the Constitution and things could not be taken forward. The question then arose as to whether there should not be a much more systematic consultation of constitutional experts during the drafting of the law, so that the government's bill which comes to Parliament could then be known with great probability that it would be covered by the Constitution. Well, this problem is actually referred to by Professor Markku Helin, the Emeritus Professor, in his opinion paper, some of which you have quoted in this report. I found this Markku Helin poll. He raises Minister Rehn's question as to how, in this so-called coercive law issue, we should have obtained an assessment from constitutional experts as to whether the government is in favour of moving forward in this direction and in this direction. As a problem in the drafting of legislation, Markku Helin states precisely that we do not really have sufficient use of constitutional experts, such an institution, at the time when the Government or Ministry prepares legislative proposals. I would like to ask the Chancellor of Justice's position on whether we should develop or emphasise this use of constitutional experts already at the drafting stage before coming to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where, of course, Parliament will take a position on these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u34	Mr President! Many important issues have been raised here, including these indoor air problems and their diverse health effects and healthy construction in the future and so on. Important things. But I would like to raise the issue of fundamental and human rights in Finland. This is a rather sudden speech. However, when I looked at this report by the Chancellor of Justice from 2015, it has been said in very clear terms here that the role of the Chancellor of Justice includes, among other things, the monitoring of fundamental and human rights, and under its title there are different paragraphs on equality, there is freedom of religion and conscience, the right to work and so on, and then when I turn these pages, it is clear here: for example, according to Article 6 of the Constitution, people are equal before the law, no one can be put in a different position on grounds of sex, age, origin, language, religion, belief, opinion, health, disability or other reason related to a person. Furthermore, according to Article 11 of the Constitution, everyone has freedom of religion and conscience. Freedom of religion and conscience includes the right to recognise and practice religion, the right to express belief and the right to belong or not to belong to a religious community and so on. Furthermore, if I raise one more paragraph, Article 18 of the Constitution provides that everyone has the right under law to earn his or her living by the work, occupation or occupation of his or her choice and so on. I do not know how well the Chancellor of Justice is aware that in Finland all these constitutional rights are being violated in health care. I do not know how well the Chancellor of Justice is aware that if there is conviction, Christian, religious or ethical conviction that he does not want to be involved in ending life, it limits the possibilities of studying in Finland, entering a place of study. In the field of gynecology, for example, it is not possible in Finland to obtain a place of specialisation, which restricts the practice of its profession, as progress is made in this area. According to modern knowledge, midwives can acquire a profession, but for them too, if they do not agree to end life, for example, a door will be pointed out here in the capital region, or rather a job will not be given at all unless they agree to abortions. This is despite the fact that caring for childbirth, helping to live in this world is one of the fundamental professions and so is the profession of gynaecologist, a specialist in gynaecology. I myself was the initiator of the citizens’ initiative that collected nearly 70,000 signatures. It specifically called for those who, either on the basis of religious or ethical convictions, cannot take part in ending life to have equal rights and equal opportunities for study, occupation, occupation and career advancement. However, in Parliament, when a debate was held on the subject, it was crushed by many MPs on the grounds that it would make it more difficult to have an abortion in Finland. However, women have a legitimate right to abortion. As a specialist in gynaecology itself, I believe that the treatment of patients in this area, both before and after the procedure, should be improved in this country. When you are legally entitled to this treatment or treatment, it must be secured in every corner of Finland. No one in this Chamber, who spoke at the time, was concerned that nearly all doctors in a small area or in the north do not perform symptoms such as heart contrast media, if there are chest pains that threaten life, and many of them do not perform knee or hip surgery or many other procedures, but all these patients are managed as is the proper way to study and treat all the necessary women’s diseases, including those affected by childbirth, as is the case with the law and according to good medical practice. Well, this citizens' initiative was voted down in December, but since then it has received a great deal of international attention, and when I tell you this, I am actually in a very dual mind, because on the one hand I am glad that in many places many organisations at international level have paid attention and actually wondered whether in Finland, which is a Western democracy and the rule of law, and in which women's rights, children's rights, human rights, freedom of expression and religion, fundamental rights can be respected, this can be true. For me it has been a very painful and, in fact, a shameful thing. In the past, I have been very proud of Finland, Finland and the structures and rights of society here in the world. However, in Brussels, the European Parliament was invited to attend a seminar on freedom of conscience early in the year. There were large associations of lawyers, and information went to the Commission, and representatives of the various organisations of the major parties were present at the seminar, and they asked, among other things, whether we understood correctly that Finnish gynecologists could be denied full treatment of childbirth if they could not participate, either because of ethical or religious beliefs, in ending life or abortion, despite the fact that in many workplaces they could rarely come forward. And I said that this is quite true, the whole basic profession of this kind can be denied in Finland on the basis of conviction. Then in the Little Parliament in the spring there was a gathering of For the Next Generations, members of a so-called round table network under the auspices of the United Nations, and at their meeting I was allowed to chair. There were parliamentarians from different countries and still, when it came to education, it was difficult for them to believe that Finland could thus limit access to and occupation of education and training. For the Next Generations gathered representatives from more than 100 different countries in the Small Parliament, and there was, among other things, a representative of a large lawyer organisation from Brussels, and he continued to raise the issue of what is wrong in Finland. In many other such international organisations — I think the last time a representative of the human rights organisation visited the Finnish Parliament, we had a meeting of the Human Rights Group there — it is still surprising whether a rule of law such as Finland, which seeks to guarantee the human rights of all, including religious freedom, is still in place today in 2016 to deny a place of study, a job and a career promotion because of conviction. I know that there are more organisations in the European Parliament in Brussels to which Finland is a window of view in the sense that reports are being collected here and that they will also be published on the basis of their reports. Let me put it briefly: I would like to see the role of the Chancellor of Justice, as I understand it, to take care of these matters so that we can get this into order in Finland too. At the time, more than 40 years ago, when abortion became legal in Finland, it made it possible to remove many of the extremely unpleasant and life-threatening complications that were at hand from illegal abortions. And many older gynecologists, who were then in action, said it was a good thing, saved lives. Abortion of pregnancy is legal in Finland and is treated in certain places by certain clinics, as it should be. But it cannot be in the rule of law that, while girls and women are also entitled to such a measure if they wish, such fundamental professions as, for example, the profession of midwife or doctor of gynaecological diseases and childbirth are denied, that is to say that Finns have to travel abroad and acquire the specificity of a specialist in gynaecological diseases and childbirth and then return to Finland. The majority of specialist doctors in my profession work in places where patients of this type are not even being treated, i.e. the majority of gynecologists treat, for example, elderly people, cancers, infertility treatments and many others, the profession is extremely extensive. I would like the Chancellor of Justice to intervene in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u35	Mr President! I would have liked to intervene in that speech by Mr Kontula. The word "paperless person" was used. It must be remembered that a paperless person may also be legally present in the country if he is still in a situation where his situation has not been addressed. A person who is illegal in the country is something else, and his case has already been decided. Fundamental rights and human rights have been mentioned in this Chamber. Of course, the necessary needs must be guaranteed for everyone, but what it means is precisely food, accommodation, hygiene supplies, medicines and so on. However, the starting point is that these persons are illegally present in the country — they cannot have the same rights as those who are legally present. This in itself would work if it were, also as a factor of attraction, and just as Mr. Jalonen and a few others have said, do we want to give the message to the world that we in Finland do not have to comply with the law, that if you do not follow the law, it does not matter, does not deny you the money? This is not how it can be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u36	Mr President! Socialism is a disease, in my opinion, at least, but unfortunately the current legislation puts us all in those socialism boots and it does not work. I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz in particular for the contributions he made on this subject. In my opinion, the costly and long process of asylum seekers would lose its meaning, at least in part, if, at the end, income support were also for illegal residents. For those who receive a negative decision, we can pay the return ticket and, in addition, issue a lifelong ban on entry. We cannot afford or be obliged to support everyone who comes here with more or less fictional stories. The people who are genuinely in need are a separate matter, but they can hardly afford to pay thousands of euros to a smuggler, they stay there in their own country. From there come these asylum tourists who come here to wing, there their wives, their children, who need that help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u39	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Ronkainen that I am not consciously using the term 'illegally present in the country' because it is a highly contradictory concept in the international debate and involves many of the underlying assumptions that I do not want to support and bring to the Finnish debate. But I would strongly recommend Mr Ronkainen to learn what income support can do today when he says that food, accommodation, medicines, etc. must be guaranteed. but no income support. Income support, EUR 484, if I remember correctly, in the month, is not enough for anything but that food, accommodation, medicines, etc., and not for everyone. Addressing these as two different issues only shows a lack of awareness of what the current level of Finnish income support is. As far as the Constitution and the debate are concerned, the Constitution, our political decision-making and our political will are concerned: most often the changes made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — note. changes and comments are recommendations — when they are a matter of order of regulation, usually relate to a small detail that is quite easy to correct. After all, we have very few in our legislation in the government's proposals that go behind the paragraph in the Constitutional Committee. It's a very small percentage. But if there is now a big contradiction between the Constitution and some government proposal and the political will to go through it, then we will change the Constitution. There's nothing more amazing about it. We have a well-established practice of how it is done. The Constitution does not prevent any political will; it only slows down the worst of stupidities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u40	Mr President! Now that the Chancellor of Justice is here, it is necessary to comment on the right of health professionals to refuse abortion. Here in Parliament there was a wide-ranging and, for the most part, a very substantive debate on the subject, the end result of which was that by codecision, it was decided to maintain this current practice, i.e. that health professionals are not entitled to refuse abortion. The main reason for this decision was that, for religious or other ethical reasons, such a right should equally become the right to refuse to treat women, and that is not what we want; we want to keep doctors in common. I also talked then, talked to several doctors and, among other things, discussed the situation with those who took the initiative, and they also acknowledged the fact that the majority of health institutions are trying to respect the values and the thinking world of doctors and to ensure that no one is reluctant to go through this unfortunate procedure. I understand if it's not one of those highlights of the day for a doctor. However, this bill, the citizens' initiative, had the benefit of clearly remaining on the agenda of reducing the need for abortion and improving prevention. And it has been a pleasure to note that many municipalities, following this debate and the citizens' initiative, have introduced free e- Pills for young people, which is a clear improvement on the past and which will also help doctors who do not want to take these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u41	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Järvinen that, in order to reduce the need for abortion, prevention issues should be put in order in such a way that when pregnancy becomes topical it would always be a happy thing. It is true that some hospitals tend to take conviction into account and also, for example, if the doctor or nurse, the midwife herself is pregnant, it is quite common practice that you do not have to take part in abortions. But, as has been said, in this vast profession, abortions are now only a very small part of the whole profession, especially since abortions are now carried out at home — more than 90% — in other words, by women themselves. But there is still no specialization, it is denied and, on the other hand, there are large hospitals, as has been said, where midwives are already informed that if they do not participate, they can take part in abortion... Even these same midwives. And again, if I may say so, this is it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u42	Let's get back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u43	Mr President! To Mr Kontula, I would say that, in my capacity as rapporteur for both asylum investigations and expulsions and as an investigating officer, I see that this term 'illegally resident' is entirely valid and we can use it, as Mr Ronkainen has done. I myself think of many asylum seekers who have come undocumented: when they have applied for asylum, they are legally in the country until the negative decision is final.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u44	Mr President! I sometimes had to attend another meeting and have not had the opportunity to follow the debate, but I myself drew attention to the fact that Mr Kontula used the term 'paperless' in the past, and I am well aware that this is a common concept used in different languages and in different contexts. However, I think that 'paperless' is a somewhat misleading general concept, because both those who are legally in Finland and those who are illegally in Finland are placed under that concept. What do I mean? I mean that when people have recently spoken of paperless people in Finland, such as in connection with the Global Clinic, they often refer, for example, to EU citizens in Finland, mainly in the capital region, who support themselves with begging. We call them undocumented, but these people, these EU citizens, are perfectly legitimate in Finland. It is quite different that I should ban begging, but that is not the point. So these people are legally in Finland. Similarly, an asylum seeker who has applied for asylum and has received a negative decision from the Finnish Immigration Service, for example, about which he has appealed to the Helsinki Administrative Court, is completely legally in Finland. Well, then, if the paperless term refers to an asylum seeker who has received a valid negative decision and also has a proselytism decision in force, then he may be a paperless person, but he is illegally in Finland. Thus, according to Finnish law, he is not entitled to be in Finland and should leave Finland. Referring to what I said earlier about the conditions for receiving income support, it is important that we distinguish between those who are legally and illegally in Finland. For example, EU citizens who are begging in Finland are perfectly legitimate, but they have their own reasons not to apply for income support which, for a certain period of time, should actually be theirs, but it would also be, if they repeatedly resort to income support, a reason for not having the right to reside in Finland. Thus, when we talk about paperless people, it obscures the essential difference between whether a person is illegally or legally in Finland. Therefore, when we talk about the right to income support, for example, it is all the more clear and precise in this respect that people in Finland are being separated legally and illegally, and I hope that this will be kept in mind. For example, I am just saying that when the YLE, in its news, i.e. online, quoted something I said in this regard, the title was that Zyskowicz does not think that the undocumented have the right to full income support. I don't think so. If so-called paperless is legally in Finland, he is entitled to full income support. At least for the moment, I do not see why, in the case of income support, we would consider the difference between whether or not he has a valid residence permit, such as a permanent residence permit, to be significant for those legally present in the country. In this regard, the 2013 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which were examined by Deputy Ombudsman Sakslin, were rightly and understandably criticised, and we are now preparing new guidelines which, in my opinion, will be needed in the specific situation next year when we have hundreds of people who are illegally present in Finland, which is their chance to receive income support on the same basis as those who are legally in Finland. In my opinion, it is self-evident that they cannot have the same right. But, as I said before, individual consideration for everyone is certainly necessary, because even such an illegal person in Finland may have such grounds in that situation, for example, as I mentioned, that his child is in hospital care in Finland, that he has grounds for granting income support for a longer period than, for example, the urgent situation of getting a roof over his head and sufficient food until he can leave Finland in the first place. Mr. Speaker! I would also like to make it quite clear that the Finnish legal system cannot tolerate such a situation that, when the Supreme Administrative Court has legally stated that a person does not have the right to a residence permit in Finland or international protection in Finland and should leave his country of origin, then an individual official of the municipal social services or, after the turn of the year, a single official deciding on the income support of the Social Insurance Institution would decide on his or her possibility of returning to his or her country of origin in different ways than that decided by the national legal system and, ultimately, by the Supreme Court. In my opinion, such a situation that the Supreme Court has ultimately estimated that the person concerned has the opportunity to return to his country of origin and that he will not be granted international protection in Finland on the basis of Finnish law, and then a Kela official would conclude that he cannot return to his own country, in contrast to what the Supreme Administrative Court has decided legally, it would be completely impossible to think of our legal order, considering that the authorities must act consistently and implement the judicial decisions that have the force of law effectively and without delay. Mr President! As a matter of fact, I would have said that when Mr Östman criticised the solutions of the Finnish Immigration Service here in certain individual situations of asylum seekers, I would like to say in general that in a democracy, such as Finland, the parliament has decided what is the Finnish policy in cases of international protection, then the Finnish Immigration Service as an official authority will comply with the laws of the Parliament and, ultimately, the independent judiciary will decide whether the interpretation is correct at what point. It is not, therefore, a question of correcting errors; it is a question of different interpretations being made in different situations and, ultimately, an independent judiciary is making an authoritative interpretation of them. It is absolutely certain that the Finnish Immigration Service will be under pressure, but it will come from two directions: there will be hopes that there will be a strict or stricter line, but there will also be hopes, for example now, of a representative. Mr Östman's speech or a number of public statements, including from the media, from the lawyers' side, from the refugee organisations, where there is a desire for a more loose interpretation or, it is said, a softer interpretation. And these pressures, of course, there are always in democracy, but the Finnish Immigration Service is in compliance with Finnish law, and at least I am confident that the Finnish Immigration Service will do good and careful work in the difficult circumstances in which they have been subjected, where the results are hard to achieve. Instead, when it has been claimed that the political leadership or the political body is demanding more negative, it is a completely false claim — to demand certain quantitative targets and the pressures are severe, but we cannot, therefore, demand any stricter or more looser line from them, but they, in accordance with their duties and duties and with their responsibilities, apply the laws in force, which, of course, will ultimately be decided by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u45	Mr President! As far as the situation of health care staff is concerned, I would like to point out that our initiative and that previous speech are specifically about a very special situation, about life and death. And I think that when we talk about these things, it must be a very special category and there is no other opinion or ideas to be attached to the same basket. We do not have the death penalty in Finland, and hopefully there will never be, we do not have euthanasia, but in those countries — when it comes to Western democracy, the rule of law — where euthanasia exists or the death penalty exists, no official or representative of health care staff will be forced against their convictions to participate in the execution of the death penalty or euthanasia. But if we think of euthanasia becoming legal in Finland at some point and becoming a situation similar to what is now the case with abortions and, for example, with doctors or nurses working in the special field of gynaecological diseases and childbirth, then, for example, the situation would be for doctors to see that, in fact, those doctors who, because of their convictions, cannot take part in ending their lives could hardly specialise in anything other than, say, pathology, researching already dead people, because euthanasiasive can come in any particular field. And if there is a practice similar to that currently found in gynecology, then it would not be possible to specialise in any field. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has taken a clear position that both patients' rights and the rights of medical staff should and can be implemented. As a doctor myself for over 20 years, I would add that it needs to be carried out even better than it has been at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u46	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Zyskowicz that 'paperless' is a vague concept. It is not used because it is terribly accurate, but because it is more practical in discussions than the other options it uses. Why is it more practical? First of all, because it describes the relationship with law. There is talk of undocumentedness when a person lacks such a status, a document that would enable the right to a service. The Romanian and Bulgarian Roma, mentioned in this speech by Mr Zyskowicz, who support themselves here by begging, collecting bottles and selling magazines, are not paperless in the same sense as the person who lacks a residence permit, but they are paperless in relation to our health services, because they are not entitled to the social insurance which otherwise covers most EU citizens because of the health system in their own country. Similarly, a Finnish citizen who has lost his right to municipality of residence in Finland after moving elsewhere and then, on the other hand, when he comes back from another country, has already moved out of that country's health insurance, is undocumented in relation to our health system, although of course he is entitled to return as a citizen to his own country of origin. In this sense, paperlessness is a complex concept. But when we talk about the right to a particular matter, such as the necessary livelihood and care, then it is a very exact concept and it unites groups, some of which are underrights, some are completely unjust from the point of view of our system, because the problem is the same for them. Another reason why paperlessness is a practical concept and definitely more practical than different forms of illegal and criminality is that it is not similarly stigmatising. When we talk about illegality, we are basically talking about a person who has violated the law, but also these people who are trespassing in the country have very many types of cases. One very typical example is the marriage that our officials have condemned as a false marriage and have informed this foreign party that go home. The only way a couple can file a complaint and show in further proceedings that the life together and love are real is that they stay together despite the fact that the presence of this other party in Finland is illegal. And 40% of the complaints against the government rights are overturned by the suspicions of false alliances. Usually the reason is that either a baby is born or a baby is born from this fake marriage, which is not possible without this unauthorized association and together life. The question is, then, what are the rights of persons and, regardless of whether or not we are talking about illegals, whether we are talking about paperless, whether we are talking about some other people, whether we are discussing what kind of rights belong to whom, what is the minimum level, what is in our system for everyone and what are the situations, what our system will bear. And if we look at the rest of the world, where there is a longer experience of widespread paperlessness, we find that discipline policy does not work: Those people, if they are to stay, will remain in that society. If they do not get official jobs, they will increase the grey sector to work there. If they do not have access to an official doctor, informal NGOs hospitals will be created. If they do not get to a real school, there will be a variety of obscure self-learning environments. And in countries where there is a large undocumented population, it has been necessary to take a spoon in a beautiful hand and admit that these people are forced to give some rights just because the system does not stand up to the fact that there is a huge proportion of the population outside of rights, and because ordinary people, when they have to deal with undocumented persons every day, no longer see the legitimacy of such an order in which part of the group, part of their everyday neighborhood, is completely outside the fundamental rights. This is a question on which we have to take a stand. I would like people to get to know and take this seriously, because this paperless country is not going to lose anything. It will not pass away by making laws and prohibiting them. Those people are here, and the amount of their presence here depends entirely on factors other than how many different kinds of bans we manage to impose in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u47	Mr President! I am well aware of the points made by Mr Kontula. However, I would like to say that I do not like to use the general term 'paperless' when I speak of people who are unquestionably illegal in Finland. I am talking about people who have a legitimate decision that they are not entitled to stay in Finland, who have a legitimate proselyte decision and who, in fact, according to the law of foreigners, are guilty of a foreign offence under the law of foreigners when they do not comply with the decision that they should leave Finland. I agree that we will be left with them — I fear that the number of people will be in at least hundreds — who, after having received a legitimately negative solution to their asylum application, will remain in Finland. And I think it is important that we prepare ourselves for this situation, that we have clear guidelines and regulations, for example with regard to income support, which has just been mentioned, which, of course, cannot be as extensive for them as for people who are completely legitimate in Finland. This is the situation that we need to prepare for, and of course the aim in a society that respects legality can only be that those who are illegally in Finland leave Finland as soon as possible. What we have to do here remains to be seen, but I do not support the fact that, for example, by strengthening their income support, we would create more grounds for them to remain in our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u48	Mr President! Mr Kontula raised a pragmatic, pragmatic point of view that a law would be mandatory, for example, because there would be so many illegal or undocumented residents in the country. On the other hand, if this logic is reversed, there are hundreds of millions of people in the world who could come to Finland for a better standard of living. Everyone understands that we cannot take hundreds of millions of people here to get a better standard of living. So, with this same logic, would we not be obliged in practice to lay down such a law that the border is closed somewhere? How many million people can we take here? At least not the hundreds of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u49	The debate is at a point where I would now give the floor to the Chancellor of Justice. There is approximately time, depending on the amount of time you think you need, maybe 5 minutes could be the appropriate maximum. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u50	Mr President! I will answer one question which came from many quarters here — and I will try to be brief. In other words, the question was how better to take constitutional and legislative aspects into account in the drafting of legislation. Well, first of all, I see that the ministry's own lawmakers, its own officials, have a key role to play in this, that the ministries have sufficient knowledge of the Constitution. The second point is that we in the Attorney General's office have sent a message to the ministries that we are available if there are such constitutional considerations in the ministries, or constitutional considerations. And we are happy to see so that we get in advance such problematic cases dealt with that they will not meet then a couple of days before the session on the list review, so then the game is already actually lost, especially if the ministries are in a hurry to send it to the board bill to the parliament. Such a hypothetical possibility that our duubies would not be taken into account in this legislative process — I can only say that the Chancellor of Justice has no right to stop the bill from being sent to Parliament by that government. How, then, could these external constitutional experts be used at that early stage in the drafting of the law? I dare not go and say how these constitutional experts will then be available. I see no obstacle to that, and I know that sometimes such constitutional experts, professors, have already been used in drafting the law at that stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u51	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u52	Mr President! I am pleased to present to Parliament the Government's proposal to amend the Environmental Protection Act on the treatment of waste water in sparsely populated areas. This Government proposal follows the solution found and agreed in the Government negotiations. For most of the properties in the sparsely populated area, the new presentation means that the so-called dry-cleaning properties will be abandoned from the date of renovation of the waste water systems, which is important for the calendar, and will be put into practice in which the condition of the sewage system in the property will be assessed and the necessary improvements will be made when larger renovations are made. These so-called dry land properties include residential buildings located more than 100 metres from the water system or the sea, or which are not located in a water supply or suitable ground water area. The renovations that would then be carried out in connection with the installation of the sewage system in these buildings include, for example, the construction of a water toilet and the renewal of the household sewage system or the repair and modification work comparable to the construction of the building, i.e. very large renovation work. In sensitive areas where the risk of pollution is higher, i.e. in coastal and groundwater areas, there is now three years before this proposal comes into force to put these waste water systems in order if there is something to be corrected. The coastal area shall be defined as a zone of up to 100 metres from water or sea and, in the case of groundwater, as water-supply or suitable for water supply. For real estate in these areas, the cleaning requirement under that legislation should be met by the end of October 2019, three summers to do the necessary renovations. The draft law also includes the possibility of derogations. The competent authority of the municipality could continue to grant a property-specific derogation in these sensitive areas in order to comply with that deadline if the amount of waste water would be significantly low or the costs would be excessive. This further mitigates the exceptions that are now in force. Mr President! It is often a matter of concern to the public that what if the cottage or the house does not even have the water toilet at the time? The main rule is that all owners of properties located in sparsely populated areas do not therefore have to start planning a renewal of the waste water system. For example, if there is a carrying water and a dry toilet at the summer cottage, then there is no or very minimal risk of pollution. Of course, renovation is not needed if the property is connected to a sewage network or if the property already has a waste water system that meets the requirements. The 2011 age exemption, which then exempted those over 68 years of age from carrying out these renovations, is still in force. If the holder or holders of a permanent residence were then 68 years of age or older in March 2011, these new provisions will in no way apply to them more. So now, Mr President, this treatment of waste water systems in sparsely populated areas has brought a great touch of the common sense that is needed and a solution that is understandable and acceptable to people. Actions focus on where the benefits are greatest, i.e. beaches and groundwater areas. Gradually, with renovations, the treatment of waste water in all sparsely populated properties is progressing and improving as real estate renovations are carried out. I would like to thank the government groups for their good cooperation in this. Indeed, that solution was found and was sought in the government negotiations and, according to it, progress has been made. On the basis of this, a working group was instructed which involved a large number of stakeholders in this preparatory work. It is a great thing that these parties, who are mainly involved in the working groups, are satisfied with the proposal and committed to its implementation. I therefore hope and believe that, according to the government's proposal, the treatment of waste water in sparsely populated areas, which has been talking about for years and sometimes heated by emotion, will be resolved in an understandable and acceptable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u53	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation. The Government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act is important for us Finns, as the amendment of the Act will moderate and clarify the treatment of the household waste water treatment of scattered settlements by real estate. The change in the law takes into account, among other things, the area in which the property is located and, on the other hand, the type of activities carried out on the property. In Finland, housing costs are very high, and I too have been told a number of examples of how property owners are actually being cashed out in situations where common sense says there is no need to do so. Mr President! So - called granary cottages and, in many cases, low - income pensioners have been forced to purchase expensive sewage systems. Now this injustice is being removed. The purpose of this amendment is to increase the discretion of the property owner when he or she can decide when the property will be subject to such authorised repair and modification work, so that the household waste water treatment system must also be brought into line with the basic cleaning requirement. This will also help those who have just built a new detached house with their water supply, and after decades of waiting, municipal technology will finally be built in that sparsely populated area, as I know examples of the Northern Espoo region. I would also like to draw attention to these border cases when the new detached house is built in a sparsely populated area, but the area is being planned in the form of a station and municipal technology is being built.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u54	Let us take a few speeches here first and then, when there is apparently cause for debatation, give it room and place for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u55	Mr President! We are dealing with the Government's proposal to amend the Environmental Protection Act. First of all, thank Minister Tiilikainen for taking the matter forward and presenting it, and also thank Minister Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, who, when he was Minister of the Environment in 2014, postponed the implementation of the regulation until 2018. The Wastewater Regulation has already been adopted in 2003, it has caused a lot of confusion and also irritation among citizens. According to the Decree, the cleaning system had to be installed in properties located in sparsely populated areas by 2014. From the point of view of the public, it is regrettable that regulation has appeared to be excessive and impulsive. There have been extensions and changes, and I think this is the third time that we are going to have, and now I believe that we will finally reach a goal and a final solution. It is to be hoped that this government proposal in this form will be right both from an environmental point of view and from the point of view of general acceptability and, if anything is final in this world, I dare say now. As the Minister presented, the property located less than 100 metres from the water system or groundwater area must meet the cleaning requirement by October 2019, which means that there is still time to put things in order. The regional demarcation is then found in so-called dryland cottages or cottages or real estate that are more than 100 metres from watercourses and where this cleaning requirement will then be carried out at the time when a larger authorised repair or modification work is carried out on the property. This will be the flexibility element, i.e. if there is no major renovation or change work, the cleaning requirement will not be triggered. This is a good presentation on a long, complicated matter. At committee hearings we hear experts, and at least I am still interested to hear how this 100-metre limit is defined, or now it is as defined in the motion, so that it is from the property or from the wall of the property. Thoughts have also been expressed as to whether it should be from a cleaning system or an exhaust pipe, which may therefore be closer than the 100 meters. Furthermore, what is the attitude towards village agglomerations where there is no centralised water supply, which means that there may be a significant point load? There is no such thing in this motion. Of course, from an environmental point of view, the fact that some 200,000 buildings are now excluded from this cleaning obligation for an indefinite period of time, which will then have an impact on the environment. Of course, that will be corrected as the larger renovations are made, but it is now, as it were, a matter of flexibility between the environmental perspective and this reasonableness perspective. The fact that the government's proposal has this possibility of deviation must also give rise to debate. Real estate that is less than 100 metres from the water can be granted an exemption from the municipal environmental authority if the use of the property is significantly limited — i.e. what does it mean'significantly small'? — or the costs would be disproportionate to the property owner. It says that this consideration includes age, lifestyles, social handicaps such as unemployment or illness. It is now important, then, that the guidelines for implementation, when they come to the municipalities in due course, are understandable and certainly the same for everyone, so that the law can then be accepted by everyone. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u56	Mr President! I'm very pleased. I must say that common sense has now prevailed. Why would we demand huge investments from buildings when there is no other investment if there is no evidence that the environment is improving in particular? There were absurd situations. For example, an old boy, or, as is said today, a single man who lives effectively on the edge of a cultivated field and produces a few kilos of phosphorus a year, would have to invest even in his waste water system. Of course, we ourselves must remember that this sewage system can be renewed beyond the input treatment plant, but it was often given the impression that only such particularly expensive solutions would work. The people who have invested in these things have not made a waste investment. At home, too, we have EUR 17,000 put in a factory, and we are pleased that our nearby lake remains clean. It is appropriate that where we are on the watercourses, things will be taken care of there. I don't think anyone wants to ruin their own waters around here. Similarly, it goes without saying that where water is used together, groundwater must be taken care of. What I wonder is that when this groundwater area is a little limited or defined, I hope that there will not be such legal murders here on the side. There are multi-degree groundwater areas, and these limits may not always be realistic. This performance does not concern a very small number of people. I believe that Mr Kiuru's speech also made mention of the fact that there are 290000 small houses built in the sparsely populated area, 7 % of which are located in the groundwater area and around 16% along the watercourses, i.e. about 200,000 dwellings now in the case of unnecessary investment — except that it is not necessary to do so, and this is a very good thing. One thing I would like to raise is that different environmental or building regulations have been made in municipalities and, of course, they are being reviewed in the municipalities at all. I would like people to draw attention to the fact that it is jointly, democratically decided what is going on there, and people would have been aware of and weighed up on those issues. In some municipalities, there are some tough demands, and I know that many Members of Parliament also have requirements which are far more stringent than the legislation. The second thing I would like to raise is that, when these investments are made, the owner of the property will hopefully continue to receive a household allowance as has been the case so far, and indeed we have no idea of changing this matter. But there's one more thing I'd like to raise, and it's a dry toilet. I would have liked even this legislation itself to have had a slightly less restrictive interpretation of the value of the biological oxygen consumption of these grey waste water in compost toilets, where both toilet products end up fertilizing useful crops. I think it would be a circular economy at its best, but this can certainly be interpreted sensibly by regulations and by lower regulations. The main thing is that we accept this modern way of organizing our visit to the latrine. Above all, nutrient recycling must be a strong step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u57	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to make a reply on the presentation made here by the Minister and perhaps on the speeches that have already been made, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u58	Mr President! It has been argued here that this new legislative proposal will lighten and clarify the provisions. It will certainly be lighter, it cannot be denied, but unfortunately the provisions are certainly not clarified. When this government has already taken up deregulation and red tape in its government programme, I would like to ask the Minister: How is it possible that there is now a law with a large number of exceptions and possibilities for deviations and that the derogations are still wide-ranging and, in part, very limited? When you look at international studies, they say that regulation and the bureaucratic burden it imposes on operators are the most burdensome legal instruments of this kind, where there is a great deal of potential for deviations. Does this not in itself go against the objectives of the government programme? Otherwise, it is a good thing that we start to score on this. As far as excessive costs are concerned, I would like to say that this has not before been the reason for the waste water regulation, but the reason for the yobarians who have attracted different facilities and buildings to their side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u59	Mr President! To this comment by Mr Järvinen, it is not clear that the law is here that the experts are of the opinion that this law is precisely going to become clearer and reasonable for those concerned. It has not yet been said in these speeches that the municipalities really have a good and wide-ranging possibility of derogation, i.e. that municipalities themselves will then be able to impose more areas where they wish to secure the water supply of the regions. This is already the case in many municipalities, which means that this regulation is much stricter in many municipalities than this law will be. Here I really thank the Minister for bringing peace and clarity to the matter and for the final solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u60	On this subject, the answers, first Mr Kalmar and then Mr Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u61	Mr President! Mr Järvinen saw this as bureaucratic and complicated. I find it sad if Mr Järvinen, who has often defended the weaker people here, now wants you not to, no matter how low-income you are, to have no exception, you must invest. I think it is very good that there are such things, but that is the main thing that these big lines do, however, please everyone, because they are good for the environment and are good for the use of common sense — to avoid unnecessary investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u62	Mr President! These accusations of exceptions to this bill have come from experts. They believe that this allows for a lot of exceptions, possibilities for deviations and exceptions to be wide-ranging. And if we look at these criteria, which allow us to deviate from this waste water regulation: if we talk about lifestyles and performances, then they are reasonably broad characterisations. And when these dry-cleaning cottages and the fact that it is good that they are left out of this law, it is worth noting that often the talk about the dry-cleaning cottage is misleading, for even there are rivers that often go down to water or there is a risk of well pollution, and these cottages are also here in Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi and Ostrobothnia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u63	Mr President! I too wanted to speak mainly because the Minister said that this draft law clarifies the current situation. Those experts who have made statements on a proposal made by the Ministry of the Environment — which really have competence in this matter — such as Syke, for example, take the exact opposite view, precisely because these references to these exceptions are very vague and also because what needs to be cleaned up at this basic level is also very limited, and there can be very complex interpretations. People put themselves in a very unequal position in what is required of them. These are very difficult situations and they must be resolved within this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u64	At this stage, I will give the floor to Mr Mäkelä, Mr Tanus, Mr Torniainen, Mr Kiuru and Mr Taimela, and then to the Minister, and then we will continue as necessary. The order of request must reasonably be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u65	Mr President! In order not to forget the truth, it must be remembered that this is not a complete victory but only a partial victory. So the basic question started with what kind of legislation is needed in general, why the waste water issue had to be tampered with in the first place. They've always lived in the countryside. There used to be more people living there than there are these days. As a result of the policy of concentration, the countryside has become empty. Why has the sewage now become so much more toxic than before that the matter in general must have been vexed? I understand that this is a compromise, and this is moving forward. But this is the basic question. Reason is only a little advanced, by no means completely winning.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u66	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. To the brickman that the peasant mind has been used in the preparation of this law, at least so that from time to time, those of us who use the cottage, the outhouse and the carrying water do not have to make expensive investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u69	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks to Minister Tiilikainen for the fact that this government proposal is now here in Parliament. Indeed, this very important issue affecting people living in a sparsely populated area has been a problem for far too long and people have been plagued by the uncertainty about how things are going to change. Thank you for giving us a clear presentation on how things will improve. That's a good thing. Surely no one deliberately wants to go to waste water bodies and also invest tens of thousands of euros in installations that may not even be necessary. What is important from now on is that all municipal authorities have clear and unambiguous instructions on how to proceed and what kind of systems are needed. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister. From the brick of this dry-cleaning solution: it is indeed the case that only changes need be made if you do
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u70	Mr President! I would like to say from this debate that many speakers have raised the issue of whether this clarifies the situation and how understandable it is. Now there are views for and against. This leads to the question of how understandable it is for officials to provide guidance, brochures, guides, municipal websites. And that is certainly a very central point from now on, that the public will certainly understand what this is all about and how it is being pursued. My question is: how has the Minister thought that the Ministry will provide this information to the municipalities and to the citizens, that from now on the message will certainly be the same for everyone?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u71	Mr Taimela, the reply, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u72	Mr President! It is sad to say from the background of this law that for the third time the entry into force rule is changing. And that is what I am most concerned about: the citizens who have been under pressure from suppliers over the years, with incomplete and changed information, and many of whom have taken out bank loans to manage their waste water, in the worst case with equipment that would not have been necessary or not even been able to be properly connected to the rest of the infrastructure at a later date. My concerns with Minister Tiilikainen are very similar to those with other colleagues in this Chamber: the fair treatment of citizens when using the derogation clause, and my second concern is these advisory resources and clear guidance, because these have also become feedback from various actors when dealing with this issue. In my opinion, citizens already deserve much better in the name of consumer protection than they have been able to get used to over the years in the regulation of waste water treatment systems, and I also believe that we must be honest in that many politicians can go into the mirror in this regard, because these unreasonable costs have even come to the point where it has not been useful for the purpose and point of view of water protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u73	And Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u74	Mr President! I'll start with that rationality. I think it makes sense to ensure the cleanliness of beaches and water bodies and the cleanness of drinking water, and that regulation will continue to be ensured. I think it makes sense that if there is no high risk to the environment, then there will be no over-requirement for the public, and it is here that this solution rests, that where the risk of environmental stress is greatest, measures will quickly come along, and where the risk is lower, there will be a shift to this better level of clean-up with time. Let me add that, although now there may be a couple hundred thousand properties in these areas of dry land, very many of them still have everything in order today. A lot of people have that three septic tanks and soil treatment and jobs at the level required by law. This does not mean that everyone has a job below the legal level, but for all buildings this will be all right if they are renovated and will continue to be used and the systems renovated. Torniainen's question: that is to say, the need for renovation there in the sewage systems of the dry land properties will be triggered if a water toilet or household sewage system is built in the house otherwise, or a renovation and modification work comparable to the construction of a new building — the land use and construction law has such an expression — a very strong renovation. Then some questions arose about these exceptions, whether they are now confused or complicated. Sometimes that common sense is more wonderful than the law, and now that not everything can be written in the law, it is possible to obtain an exception from this deadline if there is no need or there is no risk of environmental burden, or secondly, if there is no money to build. In other words, the social situation, the economic situation of the person is assessed: the impossible is not required of anyone, as the municipality can grant a further five years. Or if there is no load, then again it is not required. These things cannot be explicitly written in paragraphs, but I trust that the municipalities of Finland can use common sense, that is, if a person comes to seek that exception, he can obtain it on reasonable grounds. And for the most part, as Mrs Torniainen said here, no one deliberately wants to mess up their own beach or their own drinking water — if there is a chance of getting things right,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u75	And at the previous stage of the debate, before the Minister's speech, the response has yet to be asked at least by the representatives of Mr Karnä, Mr Turunen and Mr Järvinen, and I would now like to ask those of you who may still wish to use the reply, to stand up now and press the V button. — Mr Kärnä, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u76	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this excellent answer and thank you for finally having this matter before Parliament. To this criticism of the opposition, we must say that we have an old saying that it is good to sit on someone else's pants, and that is how it is in this case too. It is quite clear that we cannot take specific measures to regulate the way in which we should act in each individual case, but we should be confident that the municipalities will be able to use common sense and, when a person seeks such an exception, we must give sufficient freedom to officials to give them such an exception. I am at least extremely pleased that reason has won and has been taken into account in this proposal. Thank you to the government and Minister Tiilikainen for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u77	Mr President! When there has been a debate here about whether this will clarify or not, it does make it quite clear. Thank you to the Minister for that excellent speech you have just made. It crystallized pretty well what this is all about. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Tiilikainen two questions in this connection. How do these municipal waste water regulations, which are local government-specific, view this law? Are they going beyond this law? Is this law as minimum, or can these waste water regulations be made stricter in municipalities? The second question, then, is that once a discussion has taken place in the past about whether these devices are working, what is required by law to obtain, how is this device attached to it, or whether there will be further attention, for example, through the heart rate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u78	Mr President! It was called for why such a law is needed at all when Finland has been able to live around lakes for decades. Well, the answer is very easy. And that is the fact that unfortunately many lakes in Finland continue to be suffocated and eutrophic and that development must be stopped. I come from the beach of Puruvesi itself, one of the cleanest and brightest waters in Finland. And unfortunately there is the same phenomenon going on: the lake is eutrophication; decades of forest ditches that have been made without authorisation constantly bring new humus; and at the same time the number of cottages and the number of beach dwellers has multiplied, and this is only a burden on the lake in a way that it alone cannot bear. That is why it is important that this law should be put into effect even when it comes to coastal settlements. And that is why it is wonderful that municipalities, many municipalities, have a formula and protection provisions that go beyond this regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u79	Mr President! And whether this law is clear or not. I don't think it's any clearer than that. If you live on the waterfront or in the groundwater area, you will make the investments required for the environment not to be ruined and the water will remain in order, and you will do so by the end of October 19. And if you do not live there, then you will make the necessary investments when you do basic healing in your own house. It is not the legal text of this "basic improvement", but the Finnish understands what it means to invest at this level at home. So if there is no need for such a thing, then there is no need for a renewal of the sewage system. I think this is very sensible. Finally, I would like to raise the point that it is indeed the case what the Minister said: three septic tanks or even two septic tanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u80	All right, and now it's a pretty good time to go over. Mr Mölsä has the floor for a reply, but he has the floor immediately. Perhaps a representative. He's using them both. — The reply, Mr Mölsä, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u81	Mr President! In his first speech, Mr Järvinen expressed doubts as to whether this would lighten the situation and clarify it. Until now, according to current laws and regulations, our country has had about 200,000 uncertain whether something needs to be done. Now that this law enters into force, nothing needs to be done in a building built before 2004, unless — as stated in Article 156b, paragraphs 1 and 2 — the renovation of waste water systems, and then a new building measure comparable to the construction of the building will be broken down. This is a very clear law in my view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u82	And then there's the minister again, if you'll excuse me for a minute. If necessary, a little more than that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I'm trying to be quick. There were a few questions I didn't answer. This legislation is indeed a minimum legislation and the municipalities have the possibility to make stricter requirements than this legal level in their environmental regulations. And many municipalities, for example, have decreed that beaches must have a sealed container if there are water baths. That there's not a single drop of toilet water in the water. This is the kind of regulation we have in some 200 municipalities that have thought about it more carefully since then. But this is the minimum that will now bring everyone a certain level. They asked about this advice. And indeed, I am sure that there is still a need for advice both for the local authorities and for individual citizens. Although, just as Mr Mölsä has just said, this clarifies the situation for a very large number of people. And again, it's hard to write down that situation at the moment. I believe that when a lot of people think that this property is going to live for a long time now, and let's do a proper renovation, when it comes to renovation, it's quite natural to see if it's all right at the same time. And once again, let us start with the normal behaviour of people rather than how this can now be ensured in the section. Now it's done, just as legal engineering is giving in. I believe that common sense goes further here. Congressman Turunen asked me about this piece of equipment. This kind of standard product liability law and consumer protection law are also in force on these devices. And, as I said, not always need expensive equipment, but also that normal septic tank treatment in sufficient number of compartments and soil absorption is a reasonably reliable method.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u84	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u85	Mr President! The history of the government's proposal before us is a warning example of a political error, which is why the disadvantaged people, especially those living in sparsely populated areas, have been completely disciplined for no reason whatsoever. During Matti Vanhanen's second government, the Ministry of the Environment specifically prepared a waste water decree in our country at the time, which was unfair to many citizens. As a result, many grandmothers and grandfathers of the cottage had to put their last dimes on the table for the failed preparation of the decree. Here, too, the aim seemed to be to force the country, which was probably intended at the time. Many believed that urbanization would bring cleaner rural areas. In the past, it would have been worthwhile for ministerial officials to visit the grass roots of the citizens who were sorely affected by this issue. I'm glad it's the second sound in the bell. The Government has agreed to repeal the Wastewater Regulation and a significant reduction is provided for in the Environmental Protection Act under consideration, just as was agreed at the time of the Government negotiations. The decision has been made at our request. As I myself was involved in these negotiations, I know that there was a twist, but there was no giving up. The Finns have consistently fought for correction for years. During the last parliamentary term, we made a joint legislative initiative to repeal the waste water regulation, among other things in the parliamentary group. The treatment of waste water in sparsely populated areas will now be made clear and sensible. New sewage systems do not need to be built in real estate unless the dwelling is located in a groundwater area or less than 100 metres from the water system. The deadline for real estate located in these areas is extended until autumn 2019. In addition, the municipal authority may grant an exemption where the amount of waste water is low or where the costs would be excessive. Most of the properties are now being disposed of from time-bound waste water refurbishments. Now the owners of properties whose property or cottage is far from the watercourses do not have to take care of the waste water regulation at all, as has already become clear in many speeches, unless, for example, they do the necessary renovation or modification work of a building permit comparable to new construction. What is also good about this new proposal is that many elderly people and other low-income people will also benefit from the new sensible regulation. They can even apply for a derogation from the municipality near the beach if the amount of waste water is low or if, for economic reasons, the elderly could not carry out the renovation at a reasonable cost at that time. In the future, we must ensure that the officials of the Ministry do not change the purpose of this law at regulation level. We've got to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u86	Mr President! While I start by criticizing the basic principles and purpose of the legislation, we must still express our satisfaction at the fact that the government now moderates this sad law on waste water that has been worrying people in rural areas for years. The government must also be hated that it has been able to admit errors in legislation over the years and that it has a desire to moderate standards and legislation even afterwards. This was a central goal for the Finns of Peru, because as a new party, we also have the ability to tell our government partners that the Emperor does not have clothes on this issue either. Mr President! I hope and expect that the same line will continue in the future. Citizens also have the right to live outside growth centres. It must not be hampered by excessive provisions or charges. This can be done by a government whose core is the voice of the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u87	Mr President! However, we must remember what is at stake, namely that it is a question of good water quality and hygiene and the waste treatment that leads to it, and this is particularly beneficial for the inhabitants themselves. In order to achieve these objectives, regulations have been drawn up on the treatment of diffuse waste water. And as has already been revealed many times here, they have also been changed several times and the timetables have been twisted. There is a great deal of flexibility and discretion in the law as it currently stands to carry out the treatment of waste water in an appropriate and cost-effective way. The biggest mistakes in Finland have been made precisely in that the legislation was started to be developed and implemented in advance by equipment manufacturers and equipment vendors. This involves what we are talking about here: moneying people. The dryland cottages, which have neither income water nor outboard water, have not needed any systems to date. So it is also worth recalling what is a fact. There is a great deal of vague debate surrounding this issue and, of course, it will never be good if this is the basis for a change of legislation. The government now announces that it wants to moderate the obligations of property owners by means of its changes, while at the same time clarifying and simplifying the regulations. However, as has already been demonstrated here in the debate, many parties in their opinion on the government's proposal have expressed particular doubts as to the clarity of the legislation in the government's proposal. For example, Syke's own opinion states that "the changes made now do not clarify the current legislation, but rather that regulation becomes more complex and ambiguous and more predictable". Earlier today there was talk of good legislation. This does not seem to be the case now with good legislation in this respect. As a result, the cost of regulation can also be significant. I understand that the government also has these deregulations, one of which is to reduce not only bureaucracy but also costs. This increase in the scope for interpretation is the result, among other things, of the fact that the draft law does not provide sufficient detail as to when the basic cleaning requirements should be met. This would depend, on the one hand, on the location of the property, on the other hand, on the fixed improvements in the property. In other words, it is unclear what kind of changes and repairs will be required to clean waste water at baseline outside the coastal and groundwater areas. There is also a lack of clarity as to the criteria for granting deviations in these sensitive areas, such as near water bodies and groundwater. It has been clarified here, but experts say that they are so difficult to interpret that there will certainly be great questions from the municipal authorities and also the fact that in the same municipality very different decisions can be given to neighbours, for example, or, even better, in different municipalities they will be interpreted in very different ways. This does not increase the legal protection of people in any way. It is good, however, that this is a matter of minimum legislation and that this status of municipal environmental protection regulations is maintained, because the municipalities also know better what regulations are needed to ensure that the quality and condition of the water system and the state of the environment are kept as high as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u88	Mr President! I have read this 56-page presentation, and it seems to me to be a very sensible and practical performance. It makes sense that sensitive areas, such as beaches and groundwater, have been placed in their own group as a matter of urgency and then other sites are carried out according to the situation and plans of the person concerned. In other words, I would like to express my full thanks for this proposal and I hope that now a phase in this waste water debate will have ended and that a quite strong point can be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u89	Mr President! In my opinion — and in part also in the opinion of the Group of the Left, although there was little discussion in the Group of the European People's Party about this law, but this was generally considered to be a good one — this proposal for a law amending the Environmental Protection Act will be very much needed. In practice, this law will facilitate the treatment and regulation of household waste water by real estate and, at the same time, will clarify the law to a certain extent, and that is a good thing. In particular, in comparison with the requirements of the law still in force, these amendments to the law are welcome. This is because I personally have been building a number of such water and sewage lines with pumping plants in sparsely populated areas. One might say that networks have been built in miles to where the waste water has been pumped into sewage treatment plants, and dozens of different pumping plants and I have seen the pain of these people when they have gone to the yards to do it, and on the other hand, we have been blowing away billions of years of soil and putting plastic in place, which is inorganic material. And then when you think about what it meant to a single person, that granny or papa, to comply with this law, it has known the cost of thousands, even more than EUR 10,000, of building and joining. That money is gone from those people. Mr President! I well understand the need for this kind of waste water law in an area where there are plenty of real estate and residents in a relatively dense area. There these amounts of waste water are growing considerably and the need to get this kind of waste water network is all right, and there the costs per property are divided, i.e. cheaper becomes and in a way more reasonable in this construction model there. But it really is then with individual real estate: When you go out there with your excavators and other things, you tear those yards open, build that water pipe and sewer there, the cost is surprisingly high. And for me it has somehow been incomprehensible that because of some cottage granny or papa's waste water heap, you have to do this kind of investment. It's a natural product, which... Here, when this law has been in force — I remember when this has been done — I have come to believe over a long period of time that this has become such a situation over the years that this law in force has been used to empty the bank accounts of the residents of sparsely populated areas and transferred their funds through plastic tubes to the small pump industry. Something tells me this has happened. What I would have wanted for this bill is that there should have been impact assessments, that what these effects are after this amendment of the law. And then, on the other hand, I see that this law could have come into force earlier — for example, when this law was amended by the then Minister in 2011, these could have been dealt with at that stage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u90	Mr President! When speeches are repeated here about how the grannies and grandpas of the cottage have been hoarded, it has to be said once again that it has never been the cause of the law or any of the waste water regulations, but the reason that the Jobbars have seen their own chance. When we have talked about these ten thousand or even higher investments, I would like to give one example. We implemented this waste water regulation system for our own sauna cottage, we chained these septic tanks exactly as we should, and the price of the whole operation was 600 euros and 1000 euros. Indeed, there is no mention of tens of thousands, and it is a real shame that the talk of different waste water treatment plants has gone and sunk so deeply into people that huge projects have been carried out because it has never been required by the waste water regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u91	Mr President! Now this waste water treatment in sparsely populated areas has become clearer and more rational. By the way, last season I put a written question on this matter, and Minister Ville Niinistö was then in the process of answering and yes, quite harshly answered this point, but now, of course, the sled has turned around when we are in the opposition. However, when people have left the sparsely populated areas and the areas have been emptied, such expensive, irrational facilities were built there. I could give it to you when you have to spell it out all over the place: I live in a place like that on the hillside, and there's a guy living on the hill. Now he's squatting there, and he's probably coming from there, contaminating a lot of places, it's someone 500 meters to the beach. My father lives between then and then, he's 87 years old and he hasn't been contaminated yet. Iines and Otto are on the beach, still at the lake, they're over eighties, they're still not dead. Now such systems are made for these people to be saved. Ages and times there have lived with these things and there is no pollution or anything else. It's a miracle bubble. It's a green bubble. When has legislation made this crap so wise today that it bypasses these people, even goes all the way to the Baltic Sea and pollutes it too?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u92	Mr President! Now that I listened to Mr Myller's speech here, I was somewhat surprised. Either Myller means that there should be no regulation on wastewater treatment, or if you mean that the present one is better than this one, then the argument is not that this new law is expensive. One must ask why this argument is based on the fact that it is expensive, because this is not expensive if you compare it to the current situation. We are not systematically forcing people to invest or make these investments up to a certain amount of time, and this is, in my opinion, the biggest thing in this case that these citizens who live there in the sparsely populated area will not be forced to make these investments by a certain date. Just as the Minister has said here, I think it was well said that if there is no environmental risk, and then this second argument that if there is no rahoo, then you can apply for five more years. Then there is also the fact that 68 - year - olds are not required to do this. When required, this too is a human thing that is required when carrying out renovations required by a building permit or renovating that system. This is in all respects a very humane, good, clarifying step forward, and this kind of image that this would be somehow expensive, is not true, but on these very grounds this is common sense, clear and non-universal. These are the three big things that are good at this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u93	Mr President! My criticism was precisely that, even if we start to clarify the legislation, which is certainly needed, an institution such as the Finnish Environment Agency, which would think has the competence to deal with these types of issues, believes that this does not clarify but, on the contrary, makes this legislation more ambiguous. And when those responsible for how it is implemented in practice are the municipal authorities, then there will be very different decisions depending on the municipalities, and different decisions will also be made by different officials. And then, if they are complained about, or if this management is lame, it will cost them. In other words, this increase in costs is linked to this administration and to the clarity of its administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u94	Mr President! This seems to be a little debatable now, but now that Mr Myller has come back again and again, this is the fact that the municipalities have different decisions: let us take, for example, this coastline border, 100 metres. It is included in this bill because it is used in about 100 municipalities, that is, most municipalities use this 100 meters, but in more than 200 municipalities it is something else. At present, according to current practice, we have different environmental regulations in different municipalities. The municipalities will build these environmental regulations, including their waste water regulations, on the basis of what is best in the municipality. It is natural that they are different, but when you said in your first speech that the municipal authorities even give different decisions to their neighbours, it simply does not... An official acts under official responsibility, so such a procedure cannot come, nor does this law in any way result in the decisions that are taken in the municipality. If decisions are taken on the basis of the law in a municipality, they treat neighbors in the same way. This law of such a problem in no case, it is quite windy caught up, and should not be used in this kind of public debate, however, such a basis, which is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u95	Apparently, Mr Järvinen, the real speaker. I would like to take this opportunity to understand that you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u96	Mr President! That is what I did, although I would like to reply here to Mr Turuse. — This refers to the treatment of municipalities to different residents and says that it is easy to set limits, for example, depending on whether there is money or not, and it sounds, in principle, very beautiful that waste water systems will not have to be renewed if there is no money, but in practice it will only mean a major survey of the municipality. So, are we going to investigate the size of the bank account or the amount of earnings? Are capital income, potential dividend income, rental income investigated? That is a big task, and I think it would be fair and honest to admit that this legislation, as it were, causes a great deal of bureaucracy and work in the municipalities where these lifestyles and the lack of money are being considered. And that is what is included in this legislation, and this is what, among other things, the experts in the heart rate have suspected and criticised, so now that amount of work is being transferred to the municipalities. And, by the way, there are differences in treatment between municipalities, even between neighbours. There are good examples of this, or even slightly worse examples, such as the outside surfaces of the house, the height of the house and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u97	Mr President! That is where Mr Järvinen has already said the things for which I asked for this speech, but I will just say that, when we start with such a task of reforming the legislation, it should then be able to clearly improve the situation in such a way that it is more unambiguous. These examples, such as, for example, whether there is enough money to make someone, or even more vague life - style issues, but also the fact that what in concrete terms is meant, for example, by the renovation of these dry-cleaning properties... What, then, are the interpretations made in municipalities? It is precisely because the municipalities have to think very much about things in this context that we need those hours of work, that we need more research, and this adds to this bureaucracy, and I understand that this is also not in line with the objectives of the government, on the other hand, to dismantle this bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u98	I now give the Minister the floor, three minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u99	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the wide-ranging debate. It seems to me that the general look is that this is starting to get ganged up. I was particularly pleased by this speech, based on Mrs Semi's solid practical experience. It was heard that there have been problems and now he also believes that this law will make things right. That was a nice speech on the part of the opposition. But then there was an attempt to make a problem of whether this is now complex or difficult to interpret and whether it will increase bureaucracy or reduce it. This will reduce red tape, and this will be easier to interpret than in the past. Why? Because in the past, all possible properties in sparsely populated areas, 290,000 copies, may have come for that five-year postponement. Now 200,000 don't have to. This possible number of deferrals will be considerably reduced, as only those on shores or in groundwater areas will need to come to the municipal authority for a transitional period. So the number of possible exceptions will be reduced. In the past, that municipal official has had to settle two things. The law currently in force requires that these social criteria be assessed, i.e. those incomes, and even if it is stated that the person 'is not rahhoo', as Mr Turunen said, it is not enough, but after that it has had to find out for nothing how the burden on the environment, or the other way around. If it is obvious that the load is small, then it is not enough, and then you have to start making out with the revenue side. Now that existing legislation has required the simultaneous validity of both possibilities for derogations, this proposal will reduce this work, because if it is established that there is no income, it is clear, and if it is established that the load is low, it is clear. I do not understand what these claims of increased bureaucracy are based on. Fortunately, I believe that many of the representatives here have said that the citizens will then understand and that this must be the aim of Parliament's legislation, that the citizens understand what is required of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u102	Mr Turuse has yet to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u103	Mr President! I have now interpreted that Mr Myller wants to clarify this law in such a way that everyone is simply forced to invest. Then it would be pretty clear. I can't really interpret what you're saying otherwise. Let us return to the way in which the authorities in the municipalities make decisions, and let us return to whether a different decision can be made for the neighbour. Without taking a position on whether or not it is possible to deal with this government proposal, it must be said that this law does not lead, encourage or direct decisions that would be unfair to a neighbour, for example or otherwise. This law simply does not refer to it. It is part of this debate when we talk about this government proposal. It is a different conversation then whether such decisions are made in municipalities. It may be, but this has nothing to do with it. Second point: I'll talk to you about this again, and I'll come back to you when I said that if you're not rascal, it's because you're not rascal. But I also think it is a good argument for that, if we consider that investment to be unreasonable. If we're talking about those granary cottages then, we're pretty much aware of the values of the real estate and the way they've been going down there in the sparsely populated area. Then we have older homes, cottages, whose value is practically below the construction of this sewage system, and it is disproportionate then for this kind of investment to force, if you talk about an old log cottage of 5000 euros or less or 5000 euros, which then has those old water pipes there. If they are not going to do anything, it is unreasonable to require this kind of investment. This is a good government proposal in every respect. It's easy to breathe behind this. This is good. Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u104	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u105	Mr President! The Social Insurance Institution is an independent social security institution under the supervision of Parliament. The report on the activities of the Social Insurance Institution’s delegates for 2015 is now under discussion and I would like to highlight key points in my presentation of the report. To begin with, the values of Kela — knowledgeable, respectable, cooperative and innovative — well reflect the reporting period. The majority of Finns receive Kela benefits. The benefit expenditure on social security managed by Kela amounted to EUR 14.3 billion in the reporting year, an increase of approximately 2 per cent compared to the previous year. Operating expenses amounted to EUR 430 million and, more importantly, they accounted for 2.9 per cent of the total expenditure of defined benefit funds, i.e. operating expenses have remained below 3 per cent. Basic income support will be transferred to Kela in 2017, and the reform will increase people's equality, but on the reverse side there may also be an increase in benefit expenses. It can be said that Kela took responsibility for financial operations very strongly when a permanent additional cut of EUR 10 million in operating expenses was carried out during the year and, in addition, a savings claim of EUR 400000 was imposed on research activities. Due to the weak employment and economic situation and partly due to changes related to Kela, the working pressure in Kela has been severe, and despite the increase in unemployment security by 8% and housing allowance applications by 24%, and despite the new tasks and operating expenses cuts, Kela's personnel have managed well in a demanding situation and Kela has achieved the goals of passing the applications reasonably. It is essential that Kela does its work effectively and that people receive the benefits they deserve in time, without delay, and it is good to thank Kela's staff for this. During the reporting year, 5968 persons were employed by Kela, which is 40 persons less, and the annual contribution also decreased by nearly 100 person-years, despite the fact that there were more tasks and the amount of work also increased. It is good to note that the indicators of employee well-being at work have remained at a good level and the majority of employees are more satisfied with their work as a whole and Kela is considered a good employer. The development of personnel's competence has been strongly invested in, and this is essential to say because Kela's employees make Kela's services. Of course, most importantly, what Kela’s delegates are following and which is also well documented in this report is that customer satisfaction with Kela’s services is at a good level and the majority of those who visited the office felt friendly to the service and also felt that they had received sufficient information. Kela continuously develops its service options, and the starting point is customer orientation. More and more Kela customers are doing their business online, and the development of the Kela.fi online service continues. It is a significant achievement that 60% of applications were made online, which is almost 10% more than one year ago. And what is important for the citizens is that the attachments are also increasingly online, going to Kela, and that is what the Finns have been hoping for. Kela has also started an appointment booking service for major changes in life, i.e. it is possible to make an appointment and go through its own matters. This is a human-driven development of services. Parliament has closely followed digitalisation and the development of information systems in the field of social services, and it is good to say here, Mr President, that the development of Kela's Kansanta services will continue to be a lively one. Capacity is also being built for the Kanta archive of customer data in social services. After all, parent services include the electronic database of prescription medicines, the archive of Patient Information and the Omakanta service, where each of us can check our own health information and prescriptions. Almost 90% of prescriptions covered by pharmaceutical reimbursements are already electronic. Kela continuously develops its operations in cooperation with Finnish society so that the less can give more and the resources are available to people who need help and support. One good example is the direct reimbursement of taxi rides, which has been extended to the whole of mainland Finland: the combined journeys have saved EUR 16 million and some 6.5 million kilometres. This is also part of reducing the carbon footprint of Kela's operations. Kela is also actively involved in national sustainable development work, whose progress is monitored by various indicators during the year, and indeed that key indicator is the calculation of the carbon footprint, which has decreased every year. One example is the training of staff, which is done at a distance from a large part of the population, which has made it possible for a large number of Reelers to have been in training and at the same time to save resources and improve their skills. Kela's research department is involved in many legislative development projects and is very productive in its publishing activities. The report is accompanied by a summary of the studies carried out during the reporting year and contains the main findings and findings. It is also good to note that: Kela has been strongly involved in the preparation of the Government's basic income experiment and without Kela's expertise, this experiment would not have been achieved so quickly. Let me add that Kela is very strongly involved in the prevention of exclusion and there are a number of research and operational programmes to create models to address the problem of exclusion. Measures based on researched knowledge and evidence must be taken more widely, more strongly into social decision-making. With regard to rehabilitation in Kela — rehabilitation is a key part of Kela’s activities — I note that Kela has a strong vision of hardening labour standards and closing early pension routes. Kela's rehabilitation expenditure totalled EUR 445 million, which is nearly 9 per cent more than in the year before. The diversity of the rehabilitation system and the fragmentation of service systems make it difficult to find the right rehabilitation path, and from the point of view of Kela it is excellent that the Government has launched the preparation of the overall rehabilitation reform. Finally, on the report by the delegates on administrative reform and the future of Kela. The 40-year history of Kela's regional administration ended when Kela's regional government and regional centres were dissolved and Kela's organisation became two-tier. It is good to note that this organisational reform did not affect the number of Kela service points and the change was also made without dismissals. In other words, Kela's service network includes 183 offices and 139 joint service points, i.e. resources have been placed there in the field and in human services. However, Kela's major administrative reform continues, i.e. during the year Kela's administration was significantly reduced when 24 insurance districts were discontinued and replaced by 5 insurance districts. And what is essential — and perhaps for example and as a model for social welfare reform — Kela's customer service received its own unit of results and for the first time customer service was its own unit of results. Social welfare reform will have a major impact on Kela’s future operations. In particular, the delegates have dealt with social reform during the year and have unanimously, unanimously stated and considered it important that the expertise of Kela's experts be used in preparing the social welfare funding reform and the reform as a whole. It is also wise and necessary to take advantage of the functioning system and know-how of Kela, which exists in the social welfare reform. To conclude, Mr President, during the reporting period, the new Kela delegates were elected, i.e. in June, the current Kela delegates were elected when the last parliamentary mandate ended. When this Kela activity report has been made, there has been a great deal of effort here to answer what Parliament has required in this report. In particular, the report's informativeness has been increased, i.e. it has been accompanied by the entire Kela activity report and, for example, the key research results and also an annex, where the previous and current Kela delegates are present, because there were two delegated groups during this activity report. I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will look into this and then we will get a message about how this report can be developed, and also about Kela's activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u106	Mr President! The Annual Activity Report of Kela delegates highlights the transfer of basic income support to Kela from the beginning of next year. Decisions in this regard were already taken by the previous government, and according to the activity report the preparation of the transfer is on schedule. I consider the transfer to be sensible, but I would like to raise a few issues on the subject. Currently, an application for income support can be submitted to the municipal social services office, the municipal registry office, the joint service point or made electronically, at least in part of the municipalities. According to the Activity Report, Kela promises that it will serve income customers in all Kela service channels. However, I understand from the public debate that Kela particularly wants to invest in e-services. This is a fine goal, but experience in practical life has shown that, especially in the case of income support, sending out various attachments often causes the application to be paper-based, when the applicant may not have access to the attachments in electronic form. I am also concerned on behalf of people who do not have the opportunity to make an electronic application either because of the lack of an Internet or computer or because of a lack of skills or because they do not have online banking credentials to login to. Unfortunately, many people who have lost their credit records have such a situation, but there are several hundred thousand of them in Finland. People may not dare to send an application in the mail either, because mail has become unreliable today. In the case of last resort income security, it is not risked by not being sure whether the application will reach you through Posti. In practice, therefore, people have two options: either an electronic application or a personal delivery of the application. The operating network of municipalities is wider than Kela. There are 313 municipalities each with their own offices where applications may have been submitted. Kela does not have offices in every municipality, but according to the activity report it has its own points of contact 183 offices and one side office. This reduced network of services has been replaced by joint service points in municipalities. The number of municipalities that entered into a joint service agreement with Kela was 140. The activity report did not show how many municipalities are completely free of either Kela's own points or joint service points. In my opinion, this transfer of income support to Kela must ensure that no municipality has a place where an application for income support can be submitted personally and registered immediately. The municipalities and Kela must take care of this together. Indeed, it is very important for the applicant that the application be registered immediately because it has an impact on the processing time. The law says that a decision on income support must be reached by 7 p.m. at the latest. on the day of the week from the lodging of the application. In urgent cases, the decision shall be taken immediately or no later than the next working day. Some municipalities have had serious problems with handling times. In some cases, applicants have had to wait several weeks without money and without food. Especially in the case of families with children, the situation has been absolutely appalling. This has been due to insufficient staffing in municipalities. I believe and hope that: Kela is able to hold on to 7 working days. If not, Kela's delegates and MPs must intervene immediately. From the beginning of the year, Kela must receive monthly reports on processing times. As stated earlier today in the Chancellor of Justice's Annual Activity Report, the authority's lack of resources in law enforcement has not been considered to be an acceptable basis for undue delay in the handling of cases, which means that Kela must ensure that there is sufficient staff to process applications. Mr President! Other types of income support, i.e. supplementary income support, preventive income support and income support related to rehabilitative work activities, continue to be granted by municipalities’ social measures. However, it is very important that cooperation between Kela and municipalities functions seamlessly and that people can be helped in a timely manner. From an individual’s point of view, today the Finnish service system operates too late and only after serious problems arise. It is very regrettable that, for reasons of austerity, municipalities have minimised preventive income support in their budgets, which means that people cannot be helped, even though it is seen that preventive income support could avoid over-indebtedness and the complexity of problems, for example. On the basis of the Income Support Act, the income support customer must be provided with an opportunity to discuss the request by the 7th working day at the latest. It is unclear that Kela now accepts and delivers these requests to the city's social worker. People do not need to know who the request should be addressed to, but help must be obtained from a single service point. I would like to highlight, for example, the reception of doctors and clinics, which would require a comprehensive view of the person, because even a good medicine will not help if an elderly person does not have the money to buy medicines, or even a good health check will not help if a family with children cannot afford to buy food. It is known that childhood poverty is the most important of the individual risk factors for the well-being of young adults. The younger the child has been when the family faces financial deprivation, the more harmful it will be for later welfare. So how can doctors and clinic workers be made to cooperate with Kela and municipal social workers? This is certainly one of the most difficult issues in the social welfare reform, and transferring income support to Kela will not help this, and this will not be corrected if the social welfare reform endangers integration due to the privatisation of the majority. Mr President! It is also known that the under-use of income support is widespread. Many people who are entitled to income support do not apply for it because of lack of information or the shameful nature of the matter. As Kela is a familiar partner for most Finns, I believe that the threshold for applying for income support will be lowered with the transfer to Kela. I also believe that well-documented practices in municipalities, such as with regard to the annexes to applications, will disappear and people will receive more equal treatment in the future. Finally, Mr President, I hope that there will be humanity in Kela to make decisions and payments before Christmas and other long holidays. I have heard a number of sad stories about how families with children are waiting for the Christmas holiday decision on money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u107	Mr President! I will draw attention to one change in Kela's policies during 2015. In 2015, Kela changed its practices in situations where a person is found to have overpaid a benefit. It was decided that in the future, if it is a case of a income support customer, the overpayment goes directly to recovery, i.e. it will not be charged to the person himself because it is thought that the income support is the minimum level at which a person can get along in this society, but, on the other hand, he loses his credit information. It's a pretty inhumane line when you know what the loss of credit information in this society means. Although the default marking is not originally intended as a sanction, in practice it works like sanctions. It interferes with getting a job, it hinders getting a dwelling, it hinders getting insurance. If a person does not already have bank IDs but has to pick them up with a credit default mark, it is even detrimental to visiting Kela because it is difficult for him to get the necessary IDs. It is common practice in Finland that debts can be negotiated. Now, if I suddenly became broke, I would walk into the bank and then negotiate my mortgage repayment program so that I could do it. There is no corresponding bargaining opportunity for income support customers, despite the fact that certainly some of these income support customers would prefer to live less than 20, even under its livelihoods, and to pay it off slowly than to lose their credit information. We also know that income support is often temporary. It may well be that even though you are a income support customer this month, in two or three months you will have a job and you could pay off that overpayment with your wage income. This Kela policy is particularly unfair because it also applies to situations where the overpayment was caused by the fact that the person did not know how to provide Kela with the correct information or to fill out the forms correctly — and even to situations where the overpayment is due to the error of the authority: the authority has made a mistake, paid too much, notices its error, imposes an overpayment, and the person loses his credit information for three, in the worst case, up to four years from then. I do not think that this is in any way appropriate to anyone's sense of justice that this should be done, and I hope that our representatives in the Kela Council will do their best to improve this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u108	Mr President! Thank you to Kela’s delegates for this activity report. The content and form of the report have developed in the last couple of years. I remember quite clearly that, in previous years, a number of critical speeches were made in this Chamber during the referral debate on this issue on the quality of the report. Now the report gives a pretty good idea of the overall functioning of the Social Insurance Institution, and I think it is a good thing that we have moved forward on this issue. But, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Kela in particular for the quality of research. The studies and studies carried out there are timely and very well done. Kela’s research activities are also important for us political decision-makers, as at best they provide excellent research information as a basis for decision-making. That is why I am particularly pleased that Kela is also studying the ex-post effects of legislation, i.e. assessing the consequences of certain legislation for the public afterwards. And that's what we really need here. This kind of research and research work is generally too limited. I am therefore concerned about the reduction of research appropriations, as at the same time the National Institute for Health and Welfare and The Finnish Institute of Occupational Health’s research activities have been reduced due to the reduction of resources. In my opinion, political decision-making should be based more and more on evidence of research, which is why reducing research activity at its worst can even mean a deterioration in the quality of decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u109	Mr President! Indeed, this report of Kela’s delegates is very informative and well prepared. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that: Yes, Kela has kept up with time and evolved in terms of electronic services, information system reforms, research, and then also this development of administration strongly means that Kela is in good shape to face new challenges. I therefore hope that in the coming years the Social Insurance Institution will be more closely involved in the reform of the social welfare and health services system, as well as in the development of basic security to encourage and intelligent ones, and that national income register, which Kela will be developing together with others, including the Tax Administration, will be very important in this respect by 2019. This will enable basic security to be genuinely reformed and I hope that the expertise of the Social Insurance Institution will be made more visible. I hope that the committee will now pay particular attention to the implementation of this e-prescription for electronic services, stem services. After all, Kela’s browser-based prescription program Kelain will be introduced this autumn and there will be concerns about doctors who do not work in health care units, that the right to write prescriptions will also be preserved physically by all doctors, and there will then be no unnecessary burden on the rest of health care if these prescriptions remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u110	Mr President! Transferring basic income support to Kela is a major project, and when the Committee on Social Affairs and Health dealt with that bill, we also drew attention to the issues that are worrying about this project and are now being tried to respond to them. Here Mr Taavitsainen highlighted the cooperation between this municipality and Kela, and indeed the cooperation model for customer guidance between Kela and the municipality is in the process of being completed, and Kela has prepared extensive training and information programmes so that when the reform is underway at the end of the year and the law enters into force, this issue will succeed. Indeed, the goal is that customers can use all kinds of Kela services, also time can be chosen with appointments, and we can go through things carefully. And the goal is that Kela's offices and cooperation service points are so comprehensive that they will certainly reach every Finn. This service point network must be monitored by the delegates. The hearings are held at every meeting of the delegates, followed by the Board of Directors and the Kela Administration. And it is essential to see that this payment of income support goes without delay. It's a last resort benefit, and you have to pay attention to it. Research funding: I share the concern about the savings of EUR 400000 in funding Kela’s research, and perhaps as part of the whole social welfare reform in Finland, we need to decide how social and health care education and research are financed — it has been cut in the last ten years. And the surest way is to have effective and good social and health care, Mr President, when it is based on researched information. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's speech was excellent here. And let me also say that Kela is implementing the legislation that Parliament is adopting: when we find faults here, then ultimately it is in the hands of the Members of Parliament, which legislation we have adopted because:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u111	Mr President! I would also have liked to underline that the activity report of Kela's delegates looked quite clear and good, and quickly it was a source of information, and I was pleased to hear it. Here are some things that have already been raised which I too had in mind. This national income register is one of them, and I would like to see it speeded up as far as possible and specifically in relation to this basic safety test. After all, the Christian Democrats have had this encouraging basic security from the British, in line with the Universal Credit model, and that requires that national income register. And it would be hoped that, before the basic income experiment was started, that the national income register would be available and that this encouraging basic security could be put to the test. Doctors and clinic workers must work comprehensively, and hopefully this is the case, but also together with social services and Kela employees. That is something which, of course, must continue to be the subject of attention. And one thing to raise here: when basic income support is transferred to Kela from the beginning of next year, there would also be a wish that the coeliac allowance, which was removed, could be linked to Kela's basic income support so that at least these less well-off, disadvantaged people could receive additional compensation so that they can follow the diet that is absolutely essential for the treatment of coeliac disease. After all, we know that there are suddenly complications that are very expensive, and most of those costly complications certainly come to those who depend on that basic income support. The right to write prescriptions has already arrived
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u112	Mr President! Still on that speech by the delegate chairman, Mr Sarkomaa, who drew attention to young people at risk of social exclusion, in particular the right of the Social Insurance Institution to provide information to different authorities has been dealt with by the delegates, and the previous report drew particular attention to this. When the Committee on Social Affairs and Health adopted a report on this previous report last autumn, the Committee considered it important that the government carefully evaluate these proposals and then also submit proposals to Parliament to amend the legislation if necessary, so that the right to information to other authorities in the case of young people at risk of exclusion would be smooth and appropriate. Personally, I do not know what the current situation in the government is, what kind of explanations have been made, but I think this is particularly important. Especially during the last parliamentary term, from that point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, I followed this same issue, and the right to information is very important that problems can be tackled in time. I therefore hope that the committee will be able to hear and assess the current situation in this respect and whether there will be any further legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u113	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, UaVM 8/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u114	Mr President! As the new chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to present the two replies made under the chairmanship of Mr Kaikkonen. First of all, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has no comment on this report. It is this motion for a resolution. With regard to the broad scope of the Nordic Council's work, I would like to highlight in this presentation mainly the findings relating to foreign and security policy. The discussion of these issues has increased in a commendable way in recent years and, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is stressed that it is also important to make use of the possibility of Nordic cooperation to discuss issues related to the security of Finland. During the report year 2015, the main topics for discussion were Nordic defence policy cooperation, mainly Nordefco, and Eastern cooperation. There were clear backward steps in Eastern cooperation last year. Eastern cooperation of the Nordic Council has more than 20 years of close and extensive cooperation with the Russian Parliament and with the law-making bodies of North-West Russia. Last year, as in the previous year, cooperation was exceptionally limited due to the illegal annexation of Crimea to Russia, but it is very regrettable that Russia weakened the conditions for cooperation by declaring the Nordic Council of Ministers’ North-West Russia offices to be foreign actors. In practice, this has led to the closure of offices and complicates the management of cooperation projects. In October last year, the Nordic Council updated the guidelines for cooperation with Russia at the Reykjavík plenary session. The updated guidelines provide a realistic and effective basis for current cooperation. Concerns about the direction of the democratic process in Russia and about the fight against peace and stability are justified, but at the same time and despite the tense world political situation, it is very important that parliamentary dialogue and diplomacy with Russia continue, although cooperation cannot be done in the normal way. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs also welcomes the increased cooperation of the Council with Belarus. In order to ensure this continuity, it was good for Finland that the mission of the Belarusian and Russian rapporteurs remained in Finland after Erkki Tuomioja had been appointed after Kimmo Sas. Last year, of course, was also marked by the refugee crisis. It was reflected in all the Nordic Council meetings. The crisis affected Nordic free movement when border controls temporarily returned to some of the border crossing points. For a very long time, however, freedom of movement has been one of the basic elements of Nordic cooperation, including culture, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it a good thing that Finland has chosen the removal of the subject and of border barriers as one of the cross-cutting themes of its presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. It is also very positive that the dismantling of border barriers was one of the priorities of the Finnish parliamentary delegation last year. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we believe that close Nordic cooperation can, among other things, contribute more effectively to the root causes of the refugee crisis. We also agree with the Council's recommendation to strengthen Nordic cooperation in development aid and required this from the Government in the context of the discussion of a new development policy. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs believes that the involvement of parliamentarians in strengthening the Nordic foreign, security and defence policy within the Nordic Council will continue to be important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u115	Mr President! In 2015, the debate on the situation of asylum seekers was particularly marked by the end of the Nordic Council. In a joint Nordic sense, that situation faced us quite quickly and had not been expected, but then, thanks to joint Nordic cooperation, the situation was well under control. Of course, the unstable situation will continue, and, for example, the summer coup attempt in Turkey and the resulting unstable continuum will create the fear of how these mechanisms for asylum seekers in the European Union will work in the future. Of course, the root causes remain unresolved as the conflicts continue in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. However, slowly in the Nordic countries, I believe that the debate should be moved towards integration and how we can now as well as possible exchange best practices between the Nordic countries, how the group that remains in the Nordic countries after obtaining a residence permit can become part of our Nordic welfare society. Nordic cooperation is extremely important and valuable for Finland and hopefully for every Nordic country. That is why I would like to see it more visible in the national debates as well. We have worked very well together for a long time in many areas, but perhaps it is already considered to be so well established that it is not always mentioned and, above all, its virtues. Undoubtedly, Nordic cooperation would also perhaps wish for a higher level of ambition, especially in the national debate. Of course, we staunch nordists, who are involved in Nordic cooperation at many different levels, are deeply absorbed in it. But it is, of course, our responsibility to have it in a wide-ranging national debate. But it would be terribly important for ministries and ministers also to commit themselves to Nordic cooperation, because these matters affect all sectors of government. It is not only a question of involving a minister of Nordic cooperation or a foreign minister, but it is a question of Nordic cooperation in every branch of government. The Nordic Council is quite a big machine, impressive, and many things are done there. But the way things will then come to the national level of implementation, we do have something to pull together. Mr President! I appreciate the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in its own report, attaches great importance to Nordic cooperation. Next year, when Finland becomes President-in-Office of the Nordic Council, we will certainly have the opportunity to raise Nordic themes more in the debate at national level, and Finland will, above all, show such Nordic leadership during its Presidency. Preparation of the programme is underway, and next week the Finnish delegation will hopefully decide on the programme for the next year's Presidency. At the end of the day, I would like to raise the issue of border barriers. They've always been on the Nordic agency. Last year, too, they were there very much. Then, when the Nordic Council carried out organisational reform and came to the conclusion that such a new working group on border barriers, which now has two members of the committee from each of the Nordic Council committees, will hopefully get a new momentum and ownership for removing border barriers in good cooperation with the Council on border barriers, of course. It is important that the preparation of our legislation should always take into account the Nordic perspective and the possible consequences of it in the light of border barriers, if any legislative amendment or regulation is adopted. In fact, there has been such a legislative practice in Finland, but it is not very extensive and widespread. Of course, it would be great that it would work well in Finland and we would make it spread to other Nordic countries too, without always having to solve those border barriers, but we could focus on those common issues and their promotion and not on solving border barrier problems if they did not even come. This would, of course, be a state of will. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u116	Irade the Talman! Finland is in the spotlight of Nordic cooperation at the moment and in the coming year. Finland will hold the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, i.e. the Nordic Council of Ministers, this year, and next year Finland will hold the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, i.e. the Parliamentary Council. We all know that the Nordic Council is an interparliamentary cooperation organisation established in 1952 at the Olympic year. The Council has a total of 87 elected members, of which Finland has 20 members and then 20 alternates. Nothing is as obvious as Nordic cooperation. Everyone agrees on this point, and citizens' support for the work of Nordic cooperation, regardless of the sector, is always solid. I would like to raise two points: 1) current topics in the Nordic Council and 2) the future Finnish Presidency in the Nordic Council. The most important and important thing last year, as already mentioned in previous speeches, was this asylum-seekers crisis and the challenges it poses for Nordic cooperation. The Nordic countries have so far been pioneers in the area of free movement, and last year the situation then led to the fact that, for the first time in ten years, the borders between the Nordic countries were limited, as was the case between the Nordic countries. The Committee on Foreign Affairs states in its report that 'the Committee considers that close Nordic cooperation can help to address the root causes of the refugee crisis'. The Council discussed this asylum-seekers crisis and the impact of border controls on Nordic cooperation at several Council meetings. There was also a dialogue with the Nordic governments on how to find a solution to this situation, and it must be pointed out that, for example, these border controls, which came between Denmark and Sweden and towards Germany, took place about a few weeks after the session in Iceland, when the foreign ministers and prime ministers had been there to discuss with us parliamentarians. The Nordic Council is increasingly addressing foreign and security issues and also defence policy issues, and these issues were also strongly visible at the reporting year's meetings. The report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs states that "the Committee believes that the involvement of parliamentarians in strengthening the Nordic foreign, security and defence policy within the Nordic Council will continue to be important". The main other topical issues at the Nordic Council are the strengthening of Nordic cooperation in the EU, the strengthening of Nordic cooperation in health, i.e. the Könberg report and the promotion of Nordic cooperation in the labour market. Nielsen's report. Mr President! Secondly, I would like to highlight the forthcoming Finnish Presidency of the Nordic Council in 2017, the anniversary of our independence. Finland will thus hold the Presidency of the Nordic Council in 2017. The Council's political work is conducted by the Finnish President and Vice-President of the Nordic Council. The Council plenary session will take place in October in Finland, and Finland will host international meetings. An ambitious programme of Presidency will also be drawn up and implemented. Preparations for the presidency are under way and on a good model. We can really make a strong contribution to shaping and creating a common Nordic agenda. Work on closer Nordic cooperation and, for example, the removal of border barriers will continue — and here these border barriers do not mean these issues related to the asylum seeker crisis, but the harmonisation of practices and laws, for example, in order to make it easier for Finnish vocational qualifications to work on the Norwegian side or on the Swedish side and vice versa. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u117	Mr President! For a while when Finland and other Nordic countries, other than Norway and Iceland, joined the European Union, it seemed that Nordic cooperation and joint Nordic projects were somewhat unnecessary, or, as has already been beautifully stated here, that they were self-evident. But, President-in-Office, I believe that the recent events and developments in the world, which have taken place in Europe and in our very neighbourhood in Eastern Europe and the Baltic Sea, have shown that Nordic cooperation is once again extremely topical. I believe that the challenges and problems facing the EU, the Brexi, everything that is happening on our continent, call for closer cooperation between the Nordic countries. However, our history and value base are very similar: a welfare society, a social market economy, equality between men and women. These are the values that many other countries want to take from us. I myself also welcome Mr Eerola's recent comments on defence cooperation and foreign and security policy cooperation between the Nordic countries, and I hope that it will take steps and learn from it. In addition, Finland would have a great deal to learn about labour market reforms, especially in Sweden and Denmark. There is a much higher employment rate. I hope that we too will be able to push through those reforms, even though it sometimes feels in this parliamentary debate that if the labour market is made slightly more flexible, it will mean some sort of dismantling of the welfare state, but it has not meant it in Denmark, for example. Mr President! I would like to finish by bringing up Kvarken, the Kvarken region, in Nordic cooperation. In this area there is huge potential for entrepreneurship on both sides of the Gulf of Bothnia, and I hope that this Vaasa renewable energy ship project will be brought forward and Västerbotten and Ostrobothnia provinces can be like this kind of new regional policy model area.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u118	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 7/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u119	Mr President! Here too, the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is that Parliament has no objections to the report. Last year, in the case of the OSCE, with regard to the functioning of the Parliamentary Assembly, it forced the OSCE and the OSCE to think about the basic basic issues to which the OSCE's activities are based. After all, it is based on a broad concept of security, which emphasises not only military security but also the importance of democracy, human rights and economic and environmental issues as a whole. In other words, it is a package of this kind from which not only pick up parts, but it is a certain overall view of where European security should be based in a sustainable way. These principles were originally laid down in the Helsinki Final Act — a long time ago — and since then, at the end of the Cold War, the Paris Charter and the commitment of the human dimension have been adopted. These key principles have now been clearly challenged. These principles also include the right of each country to decide for itself, for example, on accession to international agreements or organisations, and they also strictly include the fact that the territorial integrity and sovereignty of states are worthy of respect. These are the principles that Russia's response to the crisis in Ukraine challenged, which have been a setback to the cooperative security model represented by the OSCE. On the other hand, in the context of the Ukraine crisis, the OSCE has demonstrated its need. The Committee on Foreign Affairs believes that, in a tense international political situation, the OSCE will continue to provide the necessary framework for action to strengthen stability and security in Europe. During the reporting year, the crisis in Ukraine was strongly present at all the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly and in the activities of Mr Ilkka Kanerva, MP elected as Chairman of the General Assembly in July 2014. The Committee on Foreign Affairs notes that the decision of the General Assembly to elect Mr Kanerva for the second one-year term as well as for the Presidency in July 2015 can be regarded as a recognition not only of the work carried out by Mr Kanerva in connection with the crisis in Ukraine but also of his efforts to clarify the workings of the Parliamentary Assembly. Of course, the 15th anniversary of Finland's well-known chain of events led to Finland's decision not to issue an entry permit to those members of the Russian delegation who were on the European Union's travel ban list. This, of course, also led to a lengthy debate in the OSCE after that. After all this, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it important to continue the dialogue with the Russian parliamentarians and others in order to find constructive solutions to improve the secure relations between Russia and the West. Mr President! Just as I stated in the recent report from the Nordic Council on Russia's decision to redefine the status of the Nordic Council offices for Russia, which in practice has led to the loss of the operational capacity of these agencies, so also within the OSCE framework, the actions have been such that it is not just individual issues that can be discussed in this review of Russia, but Russia currently has an overall approach that it can say, challenges the principles on which international cooperation is based. This makes this whole situation difficult, but we also need the parliamentary cooperation in which the dialogue takes place to resolve the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u120	Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has stated in its report that the activities of the OSCE are based on a broad concept of security, as Mr Vanhanen said in his recent speech. It is important to bear this in mind when we look at the activities of the OSCE, including the Parliamentary Assembly. The international political situation is clearly tense. That's what we all find out. Military presence and activity in the Baltic Sea have increased. The countries are paying more attention to defence and military cooperation. Instead of showing the muscles, the OSCE offers a much-needed peaceful framework for action to strengthen stability and security in Europe. In particular, the broad concept of security must not be forgotten right now. In addition to political and military security, the OSCE stresses the importance of democracy and human rights as well as economic and environmental issues as a whole. In 75 C.E., 35 OSCE participating countries agreed on rules of international policy. These are the ten basic principles of the OSCE. Among these was the principle of territorial integrity and respect for sovereignty. But, as we know, these principles have been flagrantly violated and have placed the OSCE and its participating countries in a challenging situation. This situation has therefore created a challenging situation for these countries. Now we are in a situation where the OSCE and its Parliamentary Assembly play an important role. The OSCE General Assembly may provide a forum for dialogue and dialogue and meetings of representatives both bilaterally and in different configurations. This work has now continued in 2016. The OSCE shall make a full contribution only if all the Parties to the Organisation act jointly, jointly and in accordance with the same principles. During his two-year term of office, the President of the General Assembly, Ilkka Kanerva, was excellent at establishing good relations between the General Assembly and the OSCE intergovernmental institutions. It is important that the OSCE Ministers, the Permanent Council and the Special Representatives know what we parliamentarians are doing and how we see things developing. It is important to remember that representatives of almost all political parties and trends are represented in the Parliamentary Assembly. The Finnish delegation has been pleased to note the report on the importance of OSCE election observation and the positive development of the relations between the General Assembly and the Executive ODIHR. The Finnish delegation intends to make a strong contribution to election observation. Last spring we organised our own seminar on the subject. Last Sunday, Mr Raatikainen followed the parliamentary elections in Belarus, and on Thursday, President Emeritus Kanerva of the General Assembly is going to Moscow to lead the OSCE's entire election observation mission. I myself am going to observe the parliamentary elections in Montenegro. There are also parliamentary elections in Georgia and Macedonia during the autumn period and, of course, presidential elections in the USA. Mr President! In the very near future, at the end of September, the General Assembly will meet in Skopje, the capital of Macedonia. The theme of these meetings is the situation in the Mediterranean region and in south-eastern Europe, and the promotion of good governance and confidence-building activities throughout the OSCE region. The Finnish delegation seeks to make use of meetings held in different countries in a number of ways. One new way is to get to know OSCE and EU missions and the work of Finnish experts on the ground. During the summer, a number of Finnish experts were met in Tbilisi who worked at various EU missions in Georgia. Now in Skopje we have an excellent opportunity to get to know the OSCE mission under the leadership of Nina Finns. Finally, a brief comment on cooperation with the Nordic and Baltic countries. This so-called NB8 cooperation is also well established in the OSCE. We meet regularly at meetings and before meetings. These are very important opportunities for first-hand information on what is being thought of elsewhere, and so we can also plan joint projects. Finland will host the next NB8 meeting here in Helsinki in February.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u121	Mr President! Last year, discussions on the activities of the OSCE continued to be overshadowed by the continuing crisis in Ukraine, the fact that no diplomatic exit has been found. It's still a rock in the shoe. The violations of international law by Russia have been condemned on many occasions in the OSCE, and it is particularly important that this situation should then be brought forward by diplomatic means and discussed, but unfortunately it is also a reflection of the activities of the OSCE General Assembly. Last year, Finland celebrated the 40th anniversary of the OSCE. The tense situation around the meeting was regrettable. But what is even more important than this meeting is the great cooperation of international politics that was launched in Finland at the time, and the culture of relaxation, so that we can move on from the difficult issues. It's great that the Finnish general assembly president, Mr. Kanerva, was able to take the lead in the general assembly. He has done well, and now he can continue his work in the role of the OSCE peace broker, which is very good in Finnish terms. Regrettably, it seems that these frozen conflicts are being accompanied by new, or actually new, old ones, especially when the Nagorno-Karabakh region was hearing bad news in the summer. This also shows that there is still a great, great need for the activities of the OSCE, perhaps more than ever. And that is why I would like to thank the OSCE delegation in Finland for their good and active work and wish you the continuation of this period as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u122	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u123	Mr President! It is a legal initiative to amend Article 4 of Chapter 2 of the Law on the Medical Use of Human Organs, tissues and cells. The current legal provision is that "a full-time person who is able to decide on his or her treatment may donate a non-renewable organ or non-renewable tissue only for the treatment of his or her next of kin or any other illness or injury related to him or her". This activity is under the authority of the Social and Health Authorisation and Control Agency, and our proposal is that we remove the restriction from that section on the next of kin or any other close person, and in the future the legal clause should be 'a full-time person capable of deciding on his treatment may donate non-renewable organs or non-renewable tissues for the treatment of illness or disability of another person'. First of all, I would like to thank the 116 Members who signed this bill. Thank you not only for myself but also for all the approximately four hundred patients with severe kidney failure who are waiting in Finland for a suitable kidney donor. Kidney transplantation is the best treatment for severe renal impairment. It is studied to prolong patients’ lives and improve their quality of life compared to artificial kidney therapy. A kidney transplant is not only cost-effective but also saves the money of society. Dialysis treatment in a hospital costs the municipality approximately 60000 euros per year per person in treatment. According to Finnish surveys, a functioning kidney transplant will save society some 40,000 euros a year from the first year after the surgery compared to dialysis. Since kidney transplants now work for an average of 20 years, one successful kidney transplant saves hundreds of thousands of euros from health care. In addition, for the patient, heavy dialysis and its adverse effect on the quality of life are excluded. Approximately 220 kidney transplants are carried out annually in Finland. That's not enough. Almost 400 patients are currently awaiting a kidney transplant. A limiting factor in the number of transfers is the lack of suitable donors. Each year, several patients die of complications of renal failure while awaiting a kidney transplant. Traditionally in Finland, more than 90% of kidney transplants have been made by organs received from brain-dead donors, while on average 40% of kidney transplants are made from living donors worldwide. There have always been very few kidney transplants from donors living in Finland, only 10 to 15 years, i.e. 2 to 2.7 per million inhabitants. In the other Nordic countries in the 2010s, between 13 and 20 transfers per million inhabitants have been made from live donors per year. In Denmark, for example, 119 kidney transplants were carried out in Finland last year from a living donor and from a population of the same size only 15. In comparison, Finland is far from nearly all Western countries. In the Netherlands, for example, up to 534 transfers from live donors were made in 2014, i.e. 32 transfers per million inhabitants, which is almost 12 times as many as Finland's corresponding figures. The increased number of live donors is an excellent opportunity to increase the total number of movements and to facilitate a mismatch between the availability of organs and the need to do so. The prognosis of a live donor’s kidney transplant is much better, and the transplant works longer than a brain-dead donor’s transplant because the transplant is obtained from a healthy donor and the surgery can be performed at a pre-planned time. At present, the average rate of a brain-dead kidney transplant is between 1.5 and 2 years and, in many cases, even longer. Dialysis therapy is a system-burdening and consuming treatment. According to a Finnish study, the longer waiting period prior to the transfer in dialysis increases mortality after the transfer. A live donor may be transferred without a significant waiting period. The biggest limitation on the number of transfers from living donors is currently the current legislation in Finland. According to the Tissue Act 101/2011, an adult who is able to decide on his or her treatment may donate a non-renewable organ only for the purposes of the treatment of his or her next of kin or other family members. The current interpretation of the law has followed the government’s suggestion that the next of kin are a marriage mate, a child, a parent and a sibling. Other close relatives include, for example, a common-law spouse or other person living with the donor in the same household. This interpretation has excluded relatives who are more distant than first - grade relatives — such as uncles, aunts, cousins, and friends. The situation differs dramatically from other Nordic countries and Western countries, where in many countries, in addition to relatives and friends, other healthy volunteers who wish to donate a kidney to an unknown person can also be accepted as donors. In other Nordic countries, legislation does not limit kidney donors according to their relative relationship or household. In Sweden, for example, a donor can be a friend or a cousin or also an anonymous, so - called altruistic donor. Efforts have also been made to increase the number of donors living in a number of countries by developing the so-called paried exchange system, where, for example, due to the incompatibility of blood types or the incompatibility of tissue types, the patient — the donor pair A, the living donor, does not give the kidney to his/her own loved one, but to the other pair of patients B, and, accordingly, the patient B, the living donor, in turn, will donate the kidney to patient A, i.e. in exchange, so to speak. There is a constant and permanent need for more kidney transplants in Finland, as the number of patients undergoing dialysis is constantly increasing. Every successful kidney transplant saves society hundreds of thousands of euros and improves the quality of life and life expectancy of patients. The best results for kidney transplantation are when a healthy, voluntary, live donor can be used. The National Action Plan on Organ Donation and Transplantation has set a target of increasing the number of kidney transplants from living donors to 10 million inhabitants per year by 20 years. The longer-term objective is to reach the same level as in other Nordic countries. The objective of increasing kidney transplantation from a living donor cannot be achieved if the legislation is not amended. In Finland, we urgently need a change to the current law. Restrictive legislation is the main reason why far too few kidney transplants are made from living donors in Finland. Law and practices differ greatly from other Nordic countries, and action in Finland should definitely be brought to the same level as in other Nordic countries and Western European countries. In other words, we propose that the law on the medical use of human organs, tissues and cells should be amended in the following way: "A full-year-old person who is able to decide on his treatment may donate non-renewable organs or non-renewable tissues for the treatment of another person's illness or injury. The removal of the body or tissue must be authorised by the Social and Health Care Authorisation and Control Agency." — As it has been so far. If we are thinking now of this social reform, I have said many times that there is a legal reform here, which would also be a very good social law. If we think that this is the best treatment for the patient, after this kidney transplant, the patient can live a perfectly normal life, participate in working life, engage in the same activity as anyone else, and, above all, this is not only about the best care for the patient, but also about a change that saves huge amounts of society's money. As has been said, some 400 patients with severe kidney failure are expecting a suitable kidney transplant, and I would like this bill to be dealt with most quickly in the committees and put into effect so that we do not lose sight of it any longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u124	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u125	Mr President! This bill does not add nets to the water by a meter. The initiative will only facilitate online fishing and fisheries control and will also make online fishing safer. I wanted to tell you this right from the start, because I think the initiative has been misunderstood by the Central Organisation of Finnish Leisure Fishermen, which I particularly appreciate, and by the World Wildlife Foundation (WWF). Otherwise, they would not spread false information about the initiative. According to the law in force, a need fisher can place up to 240 meters of nets in the water if he wishes. The Ely Centre or the owner of the fishing water may also reduce or prohibit net fishing altogether if, for example, it endangers or destroys fish stocks or prevents the strengthening of economically valuable fish stocks. This 240 - meter [240 m] network is not, therefore, a universal right that is allowed for every water and anyone. The most important thing is always that fish stocks do not become unnecessarily endangered or destroyed. According to the law in force, the needy fisherman can take up to a maximum of 240 meters [240 m] of nets into his boat and then put them in the water to catch. If there are two needy fishermen in the same boat, only 240 metres of nets may still be present on the boat, because according to the law, this 240-metre limit is boat and catch-specific and not fishermen-specific, as is the case with the initiative. If, therefore, there are two needy fishermen on board, both of whom want to take their own 240-metre nets to water, then we must first take one of the nets into the water and then return to the beach for the other and take them to the other one at a different time. I do not see any point in this kind of action. The same situation is the other way around. Let me give you an example. According to the weather report, there's going to be a storm for several days. With my neighbor, I'd like to get our network secure. There are 480 meters [480 m] of nets in the water, so we are going on a motorboat because rowing is not appropriate. Under the current law, one must first apply for the networks of the other and the other at a different time. Such action will also contribute to increasing the costs and emissions of the outboard engine to water and air. Nor is it a forced state mentioned by the Penal Code, which would justify breaking the law to take all 480-metre nets on board a boat. Mr President! In my previous profession, I have been dealing with fisheries control as a police officer for decades. I know that the law in force is respected, but the laws to be followed must also be simple and clear and fair. When a boat arrives under surveillance, it will be checked. If there are more than 240 metres of nets in the boat, the officer responsible for fisheries should punish the fisherman for this. Under the current law, the penalty would be for the fisherman having too many nets on the boat, that is to say, breaking the fishing law. The law should always be acceptable and fair. Otherwise, respect for the law will be reduced. There are a few absurdities in the current fisheries law, and this initiative is helping to remove one of them. With 90 other Members of Parliament, I am rationalising online fishing so that the limit per boat and fishing is changed to a limit per fisherman. This is the point that this initiative wants to change. The initiative therefore does not increase the number of networks. Mr President! One thing, but not least, I would like to highlight safety in the area of net fishing. I have been in the face several times of a drowned netfisher, who has been in the waters alone and, for some reason, caught in the water and eventually drowned. If we could make it possible for fishermen to continue to export and pick up their own network quota networks together, it would also increase their safety and create the impression that they are cared for by lawmakers. This initiative does not contain any elements that make the economy worse. It does not increase costs, and most importantly, it does not increase the number of nets in water by one metre.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u126	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u127	Mr President! The debate on the closure of Savonlinna campus at the University of Eastern Finland has been like a pre-show about the opera from the Dead House presented at Savonlinna Opera Festival this summer. In this opera, the rhythms played by the orchestra change several times. The players play challenging patterns, and the percussion instruments come out with their loud playing, and the chains and anvils bring added taste to the music. During the opera, you will experience a variety of emotions, such as joy, sorrow, a little pity, sadness and disappointment. And how much work has been done on this work and how many different levels: stage assistants, choirmen, soloists, director, technical assistants, lightmen, conductor, musicians, costumers, maskers, photographers, stagers, whisperers and so on away. We have experienced and seen all this about Savonlinna campus. But can we rewrite the libreto for the final scene? This opera needs a happy ending. Mr President! The amount of work over the years — are we throwing it all away? Savonlinna needs many kinds of competence centers, its own university, a glimpse of the future. Higher education is a source of new knowledge and knowledge for the residents of the region, the enterprises of its network and those working in the public sector, the labour force, the unemployed, innovation, education at different levels, and has many strong implications for local economic activity and social structure. The University of Eastern Finland's unfortunate decision to close Savonlinna campus after the announcement has been made, we have actively started to consider a new approach that enables us to maintain the university in our city. Our goal is not to create overlaps with other universities, but to create an original and unique centre of expertise in Finland. It is clear that the transformation of Savonlinna campus into an independent university is a key and important issue for Finland's development. The entire business life and residents of Savonlinna, campus staff, Teachers' Trade Union, student organisations, the majority of MPs in Parliament, the Province of Etelä-Savo and many others have been in favour of preserving university-level education in Savonlinna. Mr President! Smallness is no disadvantage when we know how to be innovative. Hewlett and Packard started out in the garage in California. So did Steve Jobs. By the way, Savonlinna’s standard school has been the first Apple ADS school in Finland. An excellent example of how the small community has begun to exploit its expertise. In today's world, many cooperation networks are managed through visiting professors and the digital world. A small university can thus have significant and valuable cooperation networks for the best actors in the field at home and abroad. Dubai has an exceptionally large number of foreign universities, including top universities such as Cambridge and Oxford. Most of them are business schools. Could Savonlinna by offering good conditions and closeness to Russia also attract such educational institutions to do business in Finland? Universities will increasingly become market-driven institutions such as private companies, which will compete not only for the best students and staff but also for financing and reputation and for global markets. Competition in the academic education market at both national and international level is the field Savonlinna wants to operate. Savonlinna has every opportunity to become a major university city, which will sell its services in the international education market in the future. This requires the development of a model in Savonlinna, where the university is increasingly run in a business-like way and where the background lies in the utilisation of new funding channels. Mr President! The education, training and, in particular, continuing education already provided in Savonlinna has been of very high quality. A good example of this is the cooperation with the Chinese Haidian in continuing teacher training. Within this cooperation, Chinese teachers will be able to familiarize themselves with practical teaching work at Savonlinna Art High School and Lyseo High School. Savonlinna campus and the city have long co-operation with various regions and universities in Russia, including tourism and culture. Recent Russian universities have also shown growing interest in continuing education in various sectors of regional and local government. A wide range of areas come from different countries in terms of cooperation surveys. The preservation of university-level education in Savonlinna is also an important regional policy solution. The Finnish Government Programme is strongly aimed at improving business life and entrepreneurship. Savonlinna University could be a pioneer in creating new operating models and promoting new internationalism. The University of Savonlinna has a good chance of being a major player that will change the direction of development. Now is also the time to act within the sphere of influence of higher education institutions and their localities. The region of south-eastern Finland is exceptional in Finland. It is located between two metropolitan areas, St. Petersburg and Helsinki. In terms of population, its three provinces, South Karelia, Etelä-Savo and Kymenlaakso, make up just over half a million people. There will therefore continue to be demand for good education services. Savonlinna has a sufficient infrastructure for the operations of the university, good premises and lots of apartments for students. Savonlinna University model aims to work closely with partners. At the same time, the university would support companies with a desire and capacity for international growth. In the USA and Russia, there are many examples of innovation companies operating on the side of universities and participating in university funding. Savonlinna University also wants to build a model combining internationalisation capabilities in cooperation with regional development companies, chambers of commerce and trade associations, as well as other cooperation networks and other teaching institutions. Cooperation and people who think internationally are Savonlinna's asset. Mr President! If you could use background music in the speech in Parliament, you could now play a fanfare in the background. Mr President! On these grounds, I propose to amend Article 1 of the University Act so that Savonlinna campus of the University of Eastern Finland is converted into an independent university and Savonlinna is registered as a university municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u128	Mr President! Last April, the University of Eastern Finland decided to close Savonlinna's traditional teacher training institution, which was established as Savonlinna's seminar in 1952, one year before the Joensuu seminar. The decision is unsustainable for the whole of Eastern Finland. The abolition of the Kajaani teacher training centre has already shown in such a short time how difficult it is to have qualified teachers in the region. Since autumn 2018, there is no longer more than one teacher education institution in Eastern Finland. Since the Prime Minister and Parliament, the abolition of OKL in Savonlinna has been opposed by a large number of researchers and experts. The abolition of OKL can lead to a shortage of skills for the locality and indeed for the whole of Eastern Finland, as well as the collapse of the housing market and even affect the organisation of Opera Festivals. The autonomy of universities was determined by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the second term of the government to include the administration as well. In addition to shutdowns, autonomy on the other hand allows campuses to be established in any locality. In Savonlinna, too, to minimize this absurdity, another university could set up its own campus. The amendment of the University Act is another option in which the University of Savonlinna will be added to the university list. That is what this bill is about. The university would be the smallest in Finland, but small universities have done quite well in international comparisons. In Savonlinna, the infrastructure is fine, student housing is cheap, campus is comfortable and the environment is the best for studying. The skills are still in Savonlinna. Many employees have not wanted to leave Savonlinna despite job offers, but hope that the situation will still be resolved in a reasonable way. The establishment of the University of Savonlinna could be used to test how, for example, educational exports could be developed in the region. Savonlinna’s standard school, which was excellent in comparison, already collects visitors from around the world. Now is the time to implement the good plan of the Government Programme for the growth of Finnish educational exports. I agree with Mr Turuse: a happy ending is needed for this opera.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u129	Mr President! Academy Professor Kaarlo Tuori has summed up the issues of responsibility well. According to him, regional location is a major scientific and educational policy issue, both regionally and nationally, in which the autonomy of universities does not hinder the state's control powers. It is good that this bill is being discussed in Parliament, because the abolition of OKL from Savonlinna is the worst single decision in history for the city of Savonlinna. This is the reason why I hope for the best work and implementation from all the members of the board who are trying to obtain compensatory measures. Fortunately, we have Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's statement that the future looks better for Savonlinna. He is ready to go for a solution that, in the long run, would also increase the vitality of the region. And the government, according to him, is ready to give birth to such a solution. But I must say that the government could have done this more easily by keeping OKL in Savonlinna. About EUR 100 million is now being sacrificed to the closure and re-establishment of operations in Savonlinna in Joensuu, where this 100 million could have supported the internationalisation of universities, for example, directly, as Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen has repeatedly called for. It would have been the easier way. Now let's pick the harder one. I wish you the best work for this work and I really hope, as my colleague said, that this opera will still have a happy ending.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u130	We will continue with the list of speakers. You can reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u131	Mr President! I think there is a good thing about this initiative by Mr Turuse that when young people have educational opportunities across the country, not everyone has to pack up in growth centres. At least some of those who studied at the University of Savonlinna would stay there or in nearby areas after graduation. Savonlinna is fine without Swedish. For example, there could be an introduction to the compulsory Swedish petting promoted by the True Finns. The training could include Swedish, but it can be removed. Mr President! I support Mr Turuse's initiative 99%. I leave that little reservation because the initiative contains such a sentence under the heading "Possibility of developing University education in Savonlinna": "Action with migrant children and families can be extended to the development of an educational model leading to the integration of immigrants." In my opinion, we do not need such expansions, but, above all, we need repatriation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u132	Mr President! We tried to stop Savonlinna's teacher training centre by all means and in many ways to resist. I think it is one of the most absurd decisions, which unfortunately seemed to be rampant and moving forward. As has previously been the case with more representatives, it is important to note that Savonlinna is located in the south-eastern Finland area between St. Petersburg and Helsinki and that the kind of education, the kind of activity in that city, also has a regional policy impact in many ways. I support the Savonlinna University initiative. As has been said, none of the universities in Finland has started immediately as a large university. In time, in Helsinki as well as in other university cities, universities have started out as relatively small players. When there has been a vision, there has been an idea of how to move forward, and, as has been pointed out in many speeches, Savonlinna has a wide range of possibilities and must not be left untapped, both as a region and as a university. I am in favour of the proposed initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u133	Mr President! Representative Järvinen pointed out that the government allowed this to happen. This was indeed the decision of the University of Eastern Finland's government, and the government of the country did everything in its power to prevent this. In fact, the country's government has financial resources at its disposal, it is able to provide resources. Really. Sipilä, our prime minister, offered a very hard investment: five years over EUR 2 million and then a very cheap lease on Senate properties. But in the end, when many things were offered, it became apparent right at the mouth of Principal Mönkkönen that this was not solved by money. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs really defined, during the second period of preparation of the university law, that autonomy also includes administration, so unfortunately there are these contradictory statements. I really would have liked to have been able to appeal to Mr. Tuor's statement. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has thus decided that the administration should be governed by this autonomy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u134	Mr President! I hope that no one is trying to hide under this autonomy legislation now, because it is quite obvious that no university in Finland that enjoys an autonomous status can decide for itself what subjects to teach there. No Finnish university can begin teaching teachers or law unless the Ministry of Education grants it these qualifications. Ultimately, every government always assumes responsibility for decisions. And that is why it is good that this bill is now under discussion. Now the government has the opportunity to exercise the power that belongs to it and if they want to set up a university centre or a university in Savonlinna, they want to talk about either one of them. Perhaps at this point it would be useful to know and also to know how broad the support the government has with this initiative, Mr Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u135	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kosonen just told us how this was going. The board of the University of Joensuu made this decision, and they announced that with any money they would not make any other decision. In fact, after this decision was made by the university board, I have heard — this is hearsay and rumour, and that is why I say that this is not necessarily true — that there was then a high five. It tells us that the university’s government had decided strongly that they would abolish it and that there was no money to influence it. But I give special thanks to Mr Hakkarainen and Mr Tanus for their presence here. I would have liked a little more activity from Parliament's representatives. It is natural that the three representatives from Savonlinna are here because this is an important issue for Savonlinna. But, of course, I would have liked to have had a little more sympathy. Of course it has been a long day, it is now 7:07 p.m., and that is why I would like to thank Mr Tanus and Mr Hakkara for the fact that they were able to come to Savonlinna for hours to come and defend it, which I understand is very far from their own constituencies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u136	Mr President! Of course, it is true that the University of Eastern Finland decided to abolish teacher education in Savonlinna, but at that point the Ministry has the responsibility and the right to transfer teacher training to the place it wants or even to maintain it in Savonlinna. It does not need to automatically transfer it to another office of the University of Eastern Finland, but it is always a decision of the Ministry. I am glad that with this bill responsibility will be transferred to where it belongs, i.e. to the government. I renew my question on the extent to which the government has the support of this proposal for university concentration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u137	Mr President! In answer to Järvinen's question: I have not done such an interview survey but I will do so and I will be able to answer this question. Of course, milk has fallen on the incentive, and we are in this situation. However, the stump is still in hand, we must now get new milk for that pitcher. For that we need, no more blaming at this point and no more like negative energy, we need now positive energy, together with coal blowing from the same side of the fire, not from the opposite sides, that we get such a good drag on top of this. Even Mr Järvinen now referred to these compensations at Savonlinna that these losses could then be reimbursed to Savonlinna for what it causes regionally. But I think, however, that the loss is in that way when the university campus is lost, also on this kind of spiritual side — not on the material side — a pretty big loss. That is why Mr Kosonen and I have taken this initiative. The wish is, of course, that this bill goes through, that a university could be established in Savonlinna. I believe that there is so much knowledge and positive energy in Savonlinna that it would be a very innovative kind of university, which would differ from this general university line, yes with this own style and its own line, as in my actual speech I just outlined what it was
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u138	Mr President! When we talk about the single worst decision in the history of Savonlinna, it is clear that this issue will continue to be discussed for a very long time. I myself have taken a similar initiative and some 10 other members of the opposition have also taken part, i.e. there are a little more signatories. That is why I particularly wish you the best of luck in working on compensation when we know the challenges of time. Only some other corresponding study places are the right, long-term opportunity to replace methods and when it is known that in the context of the social welfare reform, polytechnics are also under great strain. If Savonlinna Central Hospital loses surgery, internal diseases, mental psychiatry, existing university of applied sciences in Savonlinna are already at stake. That is why it is a really tough goal if you are to realise the city’s desire to have at least 420 new university of applied sciences seats in the city in order to make up for the loss of a teacher’s education institution in some way. This work requires all of us, both the opposition and the government, and I am sure we will all do our best to achieve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u139	Mr President! Representative Järvinen has already raised the situation at Savonlinna Central Hospital, which I would have liked to raise again. If we think about the city, then education, various educational institutions, and then health institutions, the hospital is very central to the way the city and its population survive. And as Mrs. Järvinen pointed out, there have been contractions in the hospital and those births were also stopped there, and it will then continue to have effects on so many other hospital specialities. Now, if we think, Savonlinna is not a big city, but it is not Lappeenranta either. In Lappeenranta, too, there is a very, I would say, Vital and a very special university, where, among other things, it says on the website that welcome to think otherwise. And I would say the same, while I wish Savonlinna luck with this initiative, that I would send a message to the rest of Finland: welcome to think differently. Small can be very flexible and find different solutions and also cooperate with entrepreneurs to internationalise. There may well be a continuum for the University of Lappeenranta, for example, which is said to have been selected among 20 universities in a particular area of the world, i.e. just after Savonlinna.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u140	Mr President! As the last speech, probably, I would like to take up what Mr Järvinen says, that we need an opposition and a government to deal with this issue. When reference was made here to the activities of Savonlinna Hospital, for example, we also need this cooperation from the representatives of the city of Savonlinna, a willingness to negotiate with it. The operations of Savonlinna Hospital are very much related to this future social welfare solution and how health care will then be organised in Southern Savo, and it is extremely important that the functions of Savonlinna Hospital remain at least at the level at which they currently are. Yes, there are many of these training places, and the hospital is a training ground, and that is why it is extremely important. But, as Mr Järvinen said, it takes a good spirit of cooperation and willingness to negotiate here in the capital, both from the opposition and the government, but then also in Savonlinna, when the city negotiates this social solution with other cities in the South, how the work is distributed and then away. These negotiations have an extremely important role to play. So it's a big deal. Now that we are talking about the transition of Savonlinna OKL to Joensuu, which has left this big, patched-up hole in the regional economy, it is so that getting it properly patched up means matching this big whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u141	Mr President! This is a happy moment when we want good things for Savonlinna in this room, and that is certainly our goal. The fact is that the on-call regulation that was decided last season took births from Savonlinna, and thus about a hundred fewer births there last year was, which is a significant reduction in the birth rate of the city. These are big things, how a hospital works in such a small town, and if we take into account the islandness of the region, the distances to other cities, it is absolutely vital that we continue to have a good level of hospital there. And this has also been mentioned here, and the level of the hospital must, of course, be at this current level, for the sake that these university of applied sciences will remain there. And in the same way as this has already come to light, yes, the county war zone. Savonlinna can also be reached, and my wish would be to be at the tables where these matters are decided, i.e. it is extremely important that Savonlinna is involved in the negotiations with Mikkeli and Pieksämäki on how South Savon infraa will be used in the upcoming social welfare reform. Of course, all this will affect our regional economy, and yet I wish this bill every success in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u142	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u143	Mr President! Act on the amendment of Article 10 of the Act on substance abuse care: Exposure to alcohol during pregnancy is the most common preventable cause of foetal damage. According to data, about 6% of pregnant women are addicted to substance abuse. It is impossible to calculate the exact number of children damaged by alcohol, but some estimates suggest that alcohol permanently damages up to a thousand fetuses each year. Diagnosis is often obtained only years after the birth of the child, which makes statistics more difficult. The use of drugs during pregnancy predisposes a child to fetal alcohol syndrome, FAS syndrome, which may result in growth disorders, structural abnormality of the central nervous system and, in the worst case, serious and permanent brain damage. Alcohol is a poison to the unborn child. Ethanol crosses the placenta and fetal circulation repeatedly causes permanent, developmental organ damage in addition to the central nervous system (CNS) to the heart, kidneys, bones and sensory organs. Certain stages of brain development are particularly sensitive to the effects of ethanol. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, there are currently around 10,000 children under 16 years of age in Finland who have some degree of damage caused by substance abuse in their mother’s pregnancy. The Act on Intoxicant Abuse 41/1986 allows for reluctant treatment, i.e. forced treatment, for users of alcohol and other drugs. Obsessive treatment is the ultimate means, but sometimes, for example, in the case of a suicidal or violent patient, the only way to help. The provisions of the Act on Intoxicant Care are applicable to the prevention of harm caused by alcoholics to themselves and the environment. However, in the case of a pregnant woman who is taking drugs, there is currently no benefit in the law. Non-intentional care should be applicable to the treatment of substance abuse mothers with the aim of protecting the unborn child. In other Nordic countries, there has been good experience in the way mothers with alcohol problems are treated against willful care. Of course, we must first and foremost secure adequate resources for voluntary substance abuse treatment throughout the country. Voluntary substance abuse should be a priority, but ultimately developmental injuries caused by foetal exposure to alcohol could be prevented, for example, by non-voluntary treatment based on the mother’s own commitment. The problem is often the long-term need for substance abuse rehabilitation. During pregnancy, a woman is particularly motivated to get rid of drugs. The mother may want to be treated, but she is not able to stay for the necessary time without adequate support. Every mother, including a substance addict, basically wants the best for her child. Above all, it is also a woman’s own interest: she will be given long-term care and the child will be born healthier. An advance child protection notice creates an obligation to act before the child is born. The reporting authorities are the same as in the actual child protection notice and the notification is primarily made to social emergency services. An advance child protection notice shall be made in situations where the notifier has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the future mother or father is suffering from, for example, a substance abuse problem or a serious mental disorder. The position of a person living in a womb is very different from that of an infant of the same age. Because of her addiction to substance abuse, a mother in a womb can poison and maim the uterus, the same treatment of a preterm infant or a newborn would be a crime. The life-long health of the fetus and the future child must be more important than the use of substance abuse in the mother’s right during pregnancy. Therefore, we propose — the whole Christian Democratic Parliament has signed this bill, signed by us doctors, Päivi Räsänen as the first signatory — that we make a change to Section 10 of the Act on substance abuse care as follows: "Conditions of treatment Regardless of their will for treatment, a person may be ordered to provide care and care for whom voluntary services are not possible or have proved inadequate and who, due to the use of drugs, seriously endangers the life or health of the foetus in his womb." This bill is very important not only for children growing up in the womb and their health but also for their mother, and in the long term, when we think about it, it is an opportunity to save huge sums of money for society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u144	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-14-ps-83.u145	Mr President! Act on the amendment of Articles 57 and 98a of the Income Tax Act. This initiative proposes that a new paragraph 3 be added to Article 57(1) of the Income Tax Act and a new paragraph 2 be added to Article 98a of the Income Tax Act, allowing the entity, as well as the natural person and the estate, to deduct from taxation the donation to development cooperation, subject to certain restrictions. The grant shall not be less than EUR 850 and not more than EUR 50000 and shall be received by an established non-governmental organisation engaged in development cooperation. For example, it is already possible to make a donation deduction from a donation made for a purpose that promotes science, art or the preservation of Finnish cultural traditions. Furthermore, according to the current Income Tax Act, it is possible for a natural person and an estate to make a donation deduction from its clean income, the money donated for a purpose that promotes science or art. The so-called global tax reform at the end of the 1980s reduced the reduction rate by cutting the reduction targets while abolishing the right of individuals to the reduction. The limitation of the right of deduction was based on short-term experience, based on which the number of donations for humanitarian aid, for example, was estimated to remain low. Support for Finnish science, art and cultural heritage is important. However, it is equally important for Finland to stick to its international commitments and play its part in achieving common objectives. Finland is committed to increasing its development cooperation budget to 0.7%. Finland committed itself to the 0.7% target of the UN Development Strategy as early as the early 1970s. In addition, Finland has also committed itself to this objective as part of the EU's common objective. With the Government's austerity measures, development funds have fallen significantly, on average by 0.39% of gross national income in the 2017-2020 spending limits period. In order to achieve the 0.7% target, measures are needed to increase citizens' willingness to contribute to the promotion of development cooperation. Development policy is an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. World events that seem remote also affect the well-being of Finns. The importance of links between development, security and human rights, so-called broad security, has increased in recent years. As human living conditions improve, the risk of unrest and conflict is also reduced. Development policy and development cooperation can also influence issues affecting Finland such as international crime, environmental damage, drugs, pandemics and illegal immigration. Development cooperation is disaster prevention, and it is much cheaper than humanitarian aid after-treatment. Participation in development policy and development cooperation also plays an important role in Finland's foreign policy. Non-governmental organisations play an important role in Finland's development policy as a whole. The development cooperation of NGOs complements public bilateral, multilateral and EU development cooperation. The added value of NGOs is their direct contact with the grass-roots level and valuable work to strengthen civil society in developing countries. Development cooperation within the administrative branch of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a well-controlled activity. In general, the vast majority of development cooperation funds will come through. Misuses are rare, with a few per cent of development funds in recent years. The regional departments of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have a central responsibility for evaluating and auditing their own projects. The use of money and the achievement of the results agreed with partner countries will be monitored and checked in a number of ways. By extending the right to donate to development cooperation too, Finns can be encouraged to provide concrete solidarity and assistance, to support the third sector, largely based on voluntary activities, and to contribute to the achievement of development objectives. Finland is one of the few Western European countries where the tax relief system for donations is very limited. A wider donation system reduces tax revenues, but the price is low if the incentive effect can contribute to the so-called broad security. The initiative sets lower and upper limits for donations. On the basis of this, we propose that Parliament approve the bill for tax deductions on donations, i.e. Article 57 I'm sorry about that. I'm sorry, I'm For the purposes of this Regulation, the Community may deduct from its income a contribution of at least EUR 850 and not more than EUR 50000 made to an association, foundation or a fund designated by the Tax Administration in the European Economic Area or associated with it for the purpose of carrying out development cooperation. We are also proposing an amendment to Article 98a concerning the donation reduction of a natural person. We propose that the article should read as follows: 'The natural person and the estate may deduct from their income at least EUR 850 and up to EUR 50000 from their pure earnings a donation made to an association, foundation or a fund designated by the Tax Administration in the European Economic Area, or linked to one of the above-mentioned funds for development cooperation'. This bill has been signed by all representatives of the Christian Democratic Parliament and started at the initiative of our MP Päivi Räsänen. - Thank you.
