ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would now ask the ministers present to move to that ministerial committee and at the same time ask those Members who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would ask the representatives to address their questions to the relevant Minister for Sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u2	Congressman Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u3	Mr President! Yesterday there was a debate in the Chamber about whether there was an alternative to government policy, and we Social Democrats suggested that 95% of Finnish employees and pensioners could benefit more from the SDP option. However, I thought that today we could talk about future investments, knowledge and investment in the future. According to yesterday's data, the science barometer states that 90 per cent, i.e. nine out of ten Finns, say directly to the government that cutting out of education is short-sighted stealing from the future. Children and young people are suffering from these cuts, and now it is not enough to explain either the government box or the minister who presents you that you are making a full turn and that you are investing in capitalization in universities and universities of applied sciences. We are now asking Mr Soin, the Prime Minister's deputy, what does this Government's short-sighted policy of stealing from education look like? So, Mr. Prime Minister, the question is, is the people wrong?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u4	Congressman Krista Kiuru, we've already had quite a run-in. Minister Grahn-Laasonen is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u5	Mr President! The tight and difficult situation of the Finnish economy has been much discussed in this Chamber, and yesterday there was another opportunity to look for alternatives and solutions in which we can lift this country from this difficult economic situation. In this context, we need new openings and new ideas on how to raise this country, for example through knowledge. One debate is, of course, what is the budget, and the other debate, which I think is the most important one, is the way in which they are used in the most effective way possible, so that Finland is able to rise again through its expertise. That is why, at all levels of our education system, this government has launched a wide range of reforms and development projects together with the field so that we can move on from this difficult situation and, in the years to come, we can also invest more financially in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u6	Now I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u7	Mr President! I find it disappointing that you, Mr Soini, the Deputy Prime Minister, did not answer whether you intend to continue on the same non-empowerment line. But since we are not just talking about it, I would also like to know: do you take seriously the growth efforts made by the Social Democrats, which were here yesterday in the Chamber, the investment in the future in electronic transport, the Arctic, the renewable industry and also the much greater use of the services sector than is currently being made?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u8	Time is running out, and Minister Grahn-Laasonen is still the minister responsible for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u9	Mr President! This is precisely what can be done in terms of content, and that is the key issue. My own concern has been that our education system has been in an excessively static, stagnant state in the past years, and now we have launched a number of projects aimed at increasing Finnish learning outcomes, halting the loss of equality in education, strengthening the competence of Finns, and also translating the alarming statistics from the fall in educational attainment to the new rise. There are new curricula in basic education at the moment, the legislation on vocational education reform has just left for the field to comment on for a large, wide-ranging consultation. We are currently working on the development of upper secondary schools through experiments, by developing pedagogy, through various development networks. At that level of higher education, the government is seeking to achieve a clearer profile and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u10	Mr President! The Finnish shipping industry is doing well. At Turku Shipyard, jobs have been secured for a long time in the future. According to the managing director of the shipyard, wages are not so important, but ship orders were received to Finland thanks to technological innovations, skilled and skilled workforce, strong market position and sales expertise. So success is based on many of the things that have been systematically neglected by the government. Finland will succeed in the future by investing in knowledge, research and product development and innovation. The competitiveness of skills, quality competitiveness and sales competitiveness are more important than the fall in work. The SDP's alternative budget contains concrete proposals for the government to use them to improve them. Mr President! Finland's share of world trade has already halved since 2007. Is it not high time, Mr Government, that these growth fins were introduced and that the cuts in education were cancelled?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u11	Madam President! If we leave this Turku shipyard, there were many reasons why it succeeded, Finnish excellence in the maritime industry, in the entire maritime cluster that is being maintained, there were good measures by the state, the government, the parliament, but also the desire to invest in Finland. The German family business believed in this and wanted to invest. One of the main objectives of the government is to increase investment in Finland at the moment, and that is why, among other things, the government will find out by mid-term discussion whether we can use the tax elements to encourage R & D investments and investment, employment, because only if we get investment, jobs and jobs generate tax revenue that will enable us to maintain our important welfare services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u12	Mr President! Let's get closer to everyday life and take care of the kids and the kids. Now I know that Deputy Prime Minister Soini is interested in this matter, and I hope that Mr Soini will be able to respond to this. According to the latest studies, one in ten young people cannot read, write enough to survive in this modern society, and in this situation we are now driving down the Youth Guarantee, the Skills Programme for Young Adults, in a situation where one in five men between the ages of 20 and 24 are already out of work and education. Minister Soini, now that it is time for the mid-term review in the spring — the government has been for two years — do you promise to take active action to get young men and women in Finland into education and employment and to engage in activities that will bring them up to date?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u13	Mr President! First of all, Mr Gustafsson seems to have the wrong information, namely that it was the government in the budget debate that secured the funding of the Youth Guarantee, for example in the field of outreach youth work and the said skills programme for young adults, that is to say, it will continue. At the same time, we are currently doing, among other things, the reform of vocational education and training, where one of the main objectives is to reduce the drop-out of training, which is a clear problem on the vocational education and training side. This, too, is something that was not corrected during the previous Minister of Education, that is to say, it fell in the last week in Parliament. The concern that you were carrying is shared, i.e. up to one in five young men is outside education and working life. In this process of exclusion, we must be able to find common medicines. On Monday this week, in its strategy session, the government has discussed this issue and we are looking for solutions in the various ministries' sectors to influence it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u14	Mr President! Finns widely see that investing in education and research is a key issue for our future. The world is becoming increasingly difficult, new skills are needed in working life, higher technology is needed, and it is important that we train all our young people and adults so well that they have access to employment, and our knowledge base is such that we can cope with international competition. I would like to highlight the extent to which the government has now cut out of education. In other words, the total shadow budget of the Greens for next year will increase education by EUR 446 million more than that of the government, and we will also be obliged to return the standards, EUR 209 million more in the municipalities, to invest in education and training, and we will also pay for those state subsidies. That is, all the cuts that accumulate during this reign go into that billion - dollar class over four years. It's a big measure. On Monday I was in Hämeenlinna at the Tavastia vocational school and there was great concern about this vocational training cut. The message from the field is that these substantive reforms:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u15	Mr President! For a year and a half the Greens have been saying in this Chamber that 'we would not cut off education' and that is why yesterday's debate here in Parliament was very revealing. It is clear from your alternative budget, which is readable to everyone, that there are real cuts from the green budget to education of almost EUR 250 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u16	The oral Question Time raises questions, not answers, but now you can ask a question, Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u17	Mr President! It's good to fix this now. I am puzzled by the fact that the Finance Minister's party does not understand the structure of state and municipal budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u18	Mr President! This is a good situation in which the alternative budget is accessible to all and where it can be seen that the Greens would not return the higher education index. In other words, about EUR 37 million in funding for higher education institutions which, with these indices, would go to higher education institutions, you would not give to higher education institutions. According to your previous interpretation, it's a clear operation. Similarly, with regard to these municipal budgets, you have not returned these funds as state transfers to municipalities, such as early childhood education and vocational training. Dear Parliament! This is available from your alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u19	Mr President! Finnish education actually has two big success stories. One of them relates to the fact that we have been able to bring equality and justice to society as a whole, to keep everyone involved. The second is that a small northern country has been able to reach its own peak and Europe's peak. In order for this to be the case in the future, education must be developed and reformed, and that is what we are now doing as a leading project. As far as this discussion of surgery is concerned — it has been held quite a number of times in this Chamber — it is probably a big picture that everyone is on the same boat about it. Both during the previous parliamentary term and during this parliamentary term, we have had to intensify and intensify education, and that is the reality we are facing. But the question is: I think we should start with a little bigger brush to create a vision of the future in a constructive spirit of Finnish education. There are a lot of questions that we need to resolve, that we should remain in this Europe-wide and global-accelerating competition. Would it be appropriate, Minister, for example, for parliamentary work to be strengthened by experts who would allow all parties to participate and create a picture?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u20	Mr President! Finland is a well-known country in education around the world. We have the kind of expertise that is of interest to the world in the development of education, and today, with Commissioner Thyssen, we had the opportunity to discuss our excellent vocational education in Finland, for example. As far as this development work is concerned, I have in fact just approached the parliamentary groups and asked for representatives to be appointed to a parliamentary group whose aim is to consider the future development policies of Finnish comprehensive school during the 100th anniversary of independence and such themes as to the basis on which the Finnish comprehensive school will be developed so that it will be the best in the world in the future. And I hope that we will be able to have a constructive, good debate on this issue, which will take a strong look to the future and, in line with the theme of the centenary year, will make the future of Finnish comprehensive school together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u21	Mr President! After all, this debate again today shows that we need a long-term approach and that we should see the whole thing. A common national vision of this education from early childhood to university education is needed right now when the government has to make very painful surgical decisions. I am very pleased that it has now been decided to set up a national parliamentary school forum, but could it be thought that other areas of education would have something to do with it? In other words, Mr Puumala had a really good question: could this forum be expanded a little? I think it would serve the entire population, to find that common vision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u22	Mr President! I fully agree with the representative that long-term development is needed, and we have a long tradition in Finland. The fact is that, compared to many other countries, the Finnish education system is being developed in a very pragmatic way and, for example, changes in governments do not affect this big line. Similarly, experts have been well placed at the heart of this education policy and the development of education and training, and we also have a strong commitment to research, which we want to stick to. It is precisely this idea that we were also thinking of fostering in this development of comprehensive school, in this vision work or in the construction of themes during the centenary of independence. There is nothing, of course, to prevent that debate from taking a broader perspective either, but this work has above all been considered for the development of comprehensive school, because it is the crown jewels of our Finnish education system and for many reasons can also be concerned at the moment, because it is seen that learning outcomes have been falling, and so is this equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u23	Madam President! The government says that it will restructure the education sector, but in reality vocational education and training will be subject to drastic savings next year, EUR 190 million. Congressman Puumala wanted to paint with a big brush. I'm sure that's what we'd all like, but the current rate of surgery is so high that we can't even afford a little brush. Vocational education and training must be systematically reformed. Why are you making decisions so rashly now? KD would have financial solutions if you looked at our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u24	Mr President! Savings in vocational education and training have come to my desk from the previous government, and all the parties in this Parliament have decided on them. But instead of this structural reform, the reform of vocational education and training, I would encourage the representative to become very familiar. It has been done together with the field of vocational education and training. It has also aroused a great deal of enthusiasm in the field; 1500 people have participated in this very participatory and quite different way in the preparation. The key ideas are the knowledge-based approach, which also gives us the opportunity to develop at other levels of education on the basis of a little of the same idea. Funding will be reformed more encouragingly. Workplace learning will be increased. Build more individual paths and build future vocational training that will provide the capacity for a wide variety of learners and also for that career development better than at present. In other words, I see that the future of vocational education and training, despite these difficult cuts and the economic situation, looks bright in the sense that this restructuring
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u25	Next question, Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u26	Mr President! An international climate conference is currently being held in Marrakech to launch work on the implementation of the Paris Agreement. After all, the Paris Agreement has already been ratified by 103 countries in the world. Today, however, the result of yesterday's election in the United States is a source of uncertainty. Donald Trumphan, elected President in his campaign, has spoken about renegotiating the Paris Agreement and has also promised to favour the solutions of the last century in his own country, such as coal. How does the Finnish Government see the situation that has now arisen? What line is the government taking in the EU in order to maintain confidence in the Paris Agreement and to fully implement it so that we people and people's societies can retain the prospect of the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u27	Mr President! The question is very topical. Indeed, that climate conference in Marrakech is back on track. In fact, in this context, I would first of all like to thank the Finnish Parliament for having unanimously decided that Finland would ratify the Paris Agreement. The Government has today passed the matter on, and tomorrow the President of the Republic will confirm it. On this basis, Finland will proceed in accordance with the spirit of the climate agreement by implementing climate action, which has been very well described in the Government Programme to the practical level. In the Government Programme, the Government has committed itself to increasing the amount of renewable energy to more than 50% in the next decade, halving the use of imported oil and abandoning coal use, all concrete measures to reduce and rid itself of fossil energy that causes climate change. The Finnish Government will continue this determined work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u28	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u29	Mr President! Now, with the result of the US election, one thing that raises uncertainty about the implementation of the Paris Agreement is climate finance. That is a key part of the agreement that industrialised countries will assist climate action in developing countries, because it is not possible to cut emissions in just developed countries sufficiently. The US contribution is now uncertain, but the Finnish Government has also contributed to creating this uncertainty by cutting Finland's share of climate finance. Will the government now consider this policy that it has previously adopted, so that Finland can contribute to maintaining confidence in the implementation of the Paris Agreement with regard to climate finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u30	Mr President! An important question: Finland as such will stick to its commitment to the international climate fund linked to the Paris climate agreement, and this has also been taken care of in our budgeting. The times are tight in general in all our development funding, and this is also evident in our funding for UN organisations as regards climate work, but these commitments are being maintained. Fortunately, the position of China and India itself as a whole is quite different from that of the 15 years ago, for example, in connection with the Kyoto agreement, so I believe that the spirit of the Paris Agreement is moving forward and that the need to break away from fossil fuel dependency in the United States too remains yesterday and today exactly the same as before, even though there may be some nuances in politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u31	Mr President! Letting climate change get out of hand would really be disastrous for people's well-being, nature and the economy. I think that Finland and other Nordic countries should strongly drive it internationally and act to ensure that the world does not warm up by more than 1.5 degrees. Now, in the Paris Agreement, the countries have made voluntary promises, and there is a real concern as to whether, for example, the USA will now deliver on these promises. In the Nordic countries, climate change is progressing faster than elsewhere. Our children will learn to love snow, we will have four seasons, children will learn to ski, but it is also a question of a future supply of arable land everywhere and of small island states not drowning in water. I ask you, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Soini: will you, together with the other Nordic countries, drive Finland towards a strong 1.5-degree target and also to take strong international action to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u32	Minister Tiilikainen is in charge of these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u33	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. Now we have to return to this election result in the United States that, regardless of the outcome of the election, the United States has ratified the Paris Agreement. This has already been done by 103 countries, and in the Paris Agreement each country has committed itself to climate change mitigation measures. It is quite premature to judge what the President is doing. Trump's pre-election positions on different issues will in practice mean something. That is what we will see when he builds up his administration and next year those negotiations will begin. But, indeed, more than 100 other countries have already ratified this, and one country will neither stop nor stop the work against climate change. For example, China, the world’s largest emitter, has air quality issues that force them to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u34	Mr President! After Paris, there was a really good feeling of finally being able to work globally, on a global scale, to combat climate change. At the moment, now after the elections in the United States, these questions, which are being asked here, are quite legitimate. The United States is the largest industrialised country responsible for combating climate change. I ask the Minister for European Affairs: how does Finland in the European Union create such a basis that the European Union really finds such a negotiating capacity with the United States that: But the United States will also define these objectives during the forthcoming presidential term so that these climate goals can be achieved and the rise in global temperature will not exceed 1.5°C?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u35	Minister Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u36	Mr President! The Minister for the Environment really does have responsibility for climate negotiations, both within the EU and internationally. The United States and the European Union cooperated well during and long before the climate negotiations in Paris and enabled that agreement to be reached. However, it is not advisable for us here to sprinkle ashes on us because the United States has democratically elected a president whose line can bring about changes. But the United States as a country is committed to the Paris Agreement. You might want to take your time. It usually happens that power brings responsibility, and hopefully this will also happen in the attitude of the United States. It is important to start implementing climate action, and even if the United States does not proceed as quickly as previous plans show, many states there have drawn up very ambitious programmes for themselves and are able to take them forward in any case. The business world is also making progress
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u37	Next question, Li Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u38	Mr President! Mr Orpo, when we were discussing alternative budgets in this Chamber yesterday, you said that the cuts are going nowhere. There you are, Minister, quite right. Next year, this government will absorb EUR 6 billion of new debt, which means that the debt ratio will only increase and employment will continue to lag. You are not even using this money for investment in employment, but you are giving high incomes more tax cuts, while you are cutting back on basic security, education and even pensions. Minister Orpo, when will this differential spiral of surgery end, and how much more will you cut in the middle of next spring, which you conveniently moved after the municipal elections for reasons of schedule?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u39	Madam President! The need for cutting ends when we get the employment rate up enough. Our main problem is that there are hundreds of thousands of unemployed people in Finland, and the government has focused all its efforts and efforts on improving employment, so that as many Finns as possible can work. When we achieve this, our unemployment expenditure, social security, income transfers will be reduced, and we will be able to pay attention again to the most important services in Finland. But since we owe a lot of money and we owe even when your party was in the government, we are also forced to make cuts because debt cannot be let out of hand. But by cutting alone, this country will not rise, but we need structural reforms that will create investments, new jobs and thus prosperity in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u40	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u41	Mr President! As a matter of fact, I think the indebtedness rate is now higher than when the left-wing union was in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u44	Mr President! The best guarantee for a low-income person, a low-income pensioner, a low-income child family is that we can secure our services. And even better, we will be able to raise as many people as possible in Finland from unemployment to work, to secure a job. It is the only sustainable way, and it is what we have chosen as a priority. And since we have thought so, we want to support the created competitiveness pact with a tax solution in which all Finnish workers and pensioners receive a tax reduction in order to encourage work, increase domestic demand and consumption and thus support employment development. Moreover, if this solution is to be fair, we will be allocating more than EUR 60 million to those on low incomes who do not have wages and who do not pay taxes. I think this is a fair line and this is the line of work. In the long term, as I have said, only by giving as many people as possible the opportunity to work will we be able to secure our tax revenue, bring this debt to a halt and put an end to these ghastly cuts in our welfare society and its services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u45	Madam President! The list of promises is comprehensive and the eyes are closed to the fact that you are really cutting. This is where Mr Andersson listed the list that is actually being exported. The historical measures taken to treat people's pensioners in this country are now true. You can't get away from it. However, I would have asked the question of certain measures which you have raised positively — that you are creating new employment opportunities in this country — of the employer's question as to where the growth funds brought to this country by the absent Prime Minister Sipilä, which are creating growth and jobs. There are certain fiscal reforms that you will bring to the entrepreneurship of the SME sector, but where is the massive effort to create growth companies in this country and a potential basis for them to actually get work in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u46	Mr Rehn will certainly be able to answer these questions about the funds. After all, we currently have a number of instruments in place to finance business activities and investments. To these government measures in support of employment: I can repeat once again the competitiveness pact which will improve the competitiveness of our industry and exports. We have estimated and the Economics Department has estimated that this will bring some 40,000 new jobs to Finland in the coming years. The Government has invested hundreds of millions in basic infrastructure management, new infrastructure projects and thus creates employment. We have introduced reforms to lower the threshold for providing work and the threshold for receiving work. We are reforming employment services, unemployment security, so that we can help the unemployed to find jobs and improve their employment capacity. We are making countless reforms. I understand that the opposition always demands more — and that is right, it is your role — but it would be reasonable for you to give attention to the actions that we have already taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u47	Mr President! As a follow-up to this strong speech by Minister of Finance Orpo, we have increased national growth funding specifically for growth-oriented SMEs by EUR 600 million, including Finnvera's EUR 300 million intermediate financial instrument and the increase in funding for Tekes and Tes. In addition, we have used European investment funding to work with the European Investment Bank. Some banking groups and Finnvera have jointly launched lending programmes over the course of this year to open up the bottleneck, which is precisely the financing of growth-oriented SMEs. All this is aimed at removing this bottleneck and at least funding is not an obstacle to the growth and employment of Finnish companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u48	Madam President! Mr Andersson raised the shadow budget of the Left Alliance, and I am happy to comment on it. It really is a shadow, that is, a shadow of the government budget. One of your proposals is to withdraw the competitiveness pact. Here the Minister of Finance has just commented that 40,000 new jobs would come with this agreement. Yes, it seems very irresponsible to think that we are going to slip away here. Secondly, the abolition of entrepreneurial deductions: you were prepared in the last government to reduce the combined tax burden on large companies, but now that the SME is given a hand, you would like to cut off its hand. Development cooperation: more than EUR 200 million more money in a situation where money is needed for domestic activities, just... [PresidentMariaLohela : I remind you,representativeElo,that questions are being asked. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u51	Mr President! Building a competitiveness pact was a big effort for the Finnish contract society and also for the government. There is a broad commitment: coverage of more than 90%. When it clearly improves our competitiveness in terms of price competition or wages and strengthens our export industry, which is everything to us, I think that after all this it would be a disaster if it were to be cancelled. We need to find the elements by which we improve competitiveness, because otherwise Finland will not succeed. We are not getting our fine products, our great know-how to the world, and that must be a priority. Competitiveness, new jobs, growth,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u52	Mr President! Yes, we believe in the Left Alliance that the Finnish worker and the working woman have earned their wages. I am actually rather surprised that the Finns believe in the mantra of this government that Finnish competitiveness is improved by wage competition and cutting skills. But in fact, Minister of Finance Orpo, what surprised us when we made our shadow budget is indeed how much the Finnish taxpayers and the entire Finnish public finances have to pay for this competitiveness pact. According to our estimates, the State and the municipalities will lose more than one billion in tax revenue as a result of this competitiveness pact and will be faced with these tax reductions decided by the government, i.e. a total of up to 2 billion in income losses. In other words, the competitiveness pact not only cuts the earnings of Finnish employees but also increases the imbalance in public finances by up to EUR 2 billion. I asked the finance minister Orpo three times yesterday, if he could tell you,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u53	Mr President! The fourth time's a charm. Firstly, the impact of the Competitiveness Pact on local government finances has been reviewed with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and the relationship between the municipality and the State as a whole has been reviewed and is approximately neutral.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u56	One last question on this subject. — — — — Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u57	Madam President! You asked if we wanted to reduce taxes on labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u62	Mr President! Let us first say that you are, of course, consistent: because you are opposed to the competitiveness pact, then you are opposed to the tax reduction model that the government is now proposing. It may be good to make that clear. But since we respect the competitiveness pact, it follows that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u65	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u66	Värderade fru talman! Det stora samtalsämnet just nu runtom i Finland i många hem och runt många brod på arbetsplatserna är det americanska presidentvalet. Många undrar hur det vöjligt att det kunde gå så rai, och många finländare är i dag också oroliga för vad det rai resultatet kan betyda för Finland och för EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u67	Madam President! The relationship between Finland and the United States is wide and good, and fortunately so. They're supposed to be. Finland's UTP guidelines on the state of transatlantic relations, which have been outlined here and which have then moved forward to committee, are in force. They will be discussed in committee. That's good. I am, in fact, extremely pleased that you, Mr Henriksson, raised this really important issue of recent days and that this can be discussed. Overall, the Nordic countries are also an important reference to the United States together. We met, the Heads of State and Foreign Ministers, the President of the United States and the Foreign Minister last spring. This is Nordic cooperation. This is what we must strive for. And quite rightly, it is true that the EU's foreign ministers are meeting on an extraordinary basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u68	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u69	Mr President! After the elections, Chancellor Merkel said, among other things, that no matter who runs the United States, this person has a global responsibility. It is climate issues, it is the fight against terrorism, it is the fight against world poverty. Here in Finland, we have many companies that trade with the United States. We have had good relations, and trade relations have also been in good shape. However, we have already received signs today that we are also beginning to be a little concerned about entrepreneurs all over Finland and that it is trade relations that are concerned. How do you see this, Minister Soini and perhaps Minister Rehn?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u70	Madam President! It is extremely important that trade between Finland and the United States and between Europe and the United States should develop favourably. The United States is a very important trading partner for us, now bigger than Russia, for example, and it is important that this can be safeguarded. Of course we want the current rule-based trade policy to continue, because it is in the interests of a small country such as Finland, that fair treatment should be given to our good services, so that our good products on the world market do not run into a wall that is unfairly held outside. But I would urge you to be very careful and also, in a way, very calm. Democracy in America has acted as the voters wanted, and now we will look and negotiate in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u71	Mr President! In addition to what Mr Soini said, which I fully agree with, it is worth pointing out that during the campaign in the United States trade criticism was strongly directed at the issue of cheap imports from Asia. With regard to the European TTIP, Trump has said nothing, and there is no reason in itself to see that the deepening of the trade partnership between the developed partners, Europe and the United States, will not continue to be a positive thing for the US administration. I am sure it is worth waiting six months for us to move forward in concrete terms, but in this regard, I am not so concerned that the United States does not see the advantage that trade towards Europe will continue to operate. Tomorrow we will have a meeting of EU trade ministers in Brussels, where we will also evaluate the next steps together with our colleagues, so that, in the future, this Finnish entrepreneur will have access to the US market, hopefully in a few years' time, without double testing, without extra duties and so on, which could create:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u72	Mr President! Of course, the Americans choose their own president themselves, and the mandate of a democratically elected President must, of course, be respected. Here in Parliament, we are discussing international policy, and this is a subject that falls within its remit, and that is why it is appropriate to discuss it here. If Donald Trump goes on to implement the policy he represented, repeatedly pointed out during his campaign, then it is worrying. It is also worrying because it inspires the small Thumpes that exist here on the other side of the ocean in the Member States of the European Union. Now the question is for you, Minister Soini: You now have a triple caste, you are the Deputy Prime Minister at this sitting, you are the Foreign Minister, and you are the European Minister. How do you intend to act at this forthcoming meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, so that the European Union will be able to dam this rising, dangerous right-wing movement, this anti-social movement, and to satisfy the needs of ordinary European people, to create faith in the future and better employment? What do you do?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u73	Madam President! In order to avoid any confusion, it is quite clear that in every country in which democratic elections take place, the result of the election will be decided, and it will be followed by Finland, France, Denmark and the United States. That is quite clear. As far as the election results of the United States are concerned, at the same time the elections of the Senate and the elections of the House of Representatives were held, and all the Republicans won. It is strange now if it is not democratic. I would now urge all caution with regard to President Trump. Let's let him show us what he's capable of. I don't think it's very wise, especially not as the Finnish Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u74	Next question, Congressman Oinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u75	Madam President! Russians and other countries have bought land sites considered important by Finns. It would appear that the purchases are well thought out. Real estate transactions have been made most prominently in Eastern and South-East Finland, but the phenomenon is not strange in the rest of the country either. This has given rise to a debate as to whether we will sufficiently anticipate, for example, the future of our domestic policy. In recent years, Russia has changed its legislation so that it will continue to defend the ownership of its own citizens, not just in Russia. It is also a question of Finland's internal security and security of supply in Finland. I ask the Minister for the Interior, Mr Risiko: has the government taken into account in a timely manner the internal security aspect of land trade and any other security threats?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u76	Madam President! Thank you very much for this question. We have very good cooperation with the Minister for Defence, Niinistö, and with the Minister for Justice and Labour, Lindström, and with the Ministry of Finance on these matters. Yeah, we've been doing a lot of work. This is a question of internal security as well as of border defence and defence in general. Both the people of the Ministry of the Interior and the people of the Ministry of Defence work well together to monitor this issue too, and various statements have been made by the protection police. We're awake.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u78	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u79	Madam President! It is good that this government has also acted on these issues. Minister for Defence After all, Niinistö was active and certain trades did not take place when there was a clear foreign and security concern and issue. There has also been a debate in public about dual citizenship. There has been a debate about the fact that we may have people with dual nationality in very important positions from different countries. Has there been a debate among the government of our country about, for example, border control, the Defence Forces, the police, or, for example, the main tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, identifying and investigating potential dual citizenship, whether they are partners in Finland or in any country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u80	Mr President! I would also like to say, as the Minister responsible for the Senate, to the previous question concerning these real estate transactions that when there has been public debate, that: The Senate would have sold these border posts near the border to foreigners — or to the Russians in this context — and that is not the case, and I would like to correct this. But then, with regard to this issue of nationality and state office, I would like to say that this is a wide-ranging package and we have an amendment to the State Civil Service Act in preparation to see how it might then be possible to ensure the security of the State from the point of view of posts where there is information about which there may be doubt that it will go to others' knowledge. We're preparing it. And then, here the Minister of Justice is not present, it has also been agreed that the Personal Security Clearance Act will be amended in the same context and in the same timetable. That's how we're lineed up here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u81	Madam President! Real estate transactions carried out in Finland by non-EU and EEA nationals have indeed sparked much debate and speculation, especially in south-eastern and eastern Finland. I think we should also follow very closely what is going to happen in the future. Of course, it has been on the agenda for several years, for a long time, and certain changes have been desired. Mr Risikko, you have just told us that this is also being followed up. How concretely is this matter being followed up, and whether different registers are being maintained, how much real estate do the Russians buy in Finland, for example, and how are they managed? The big problem has been that many times those property owners, in a way, lose when they have bought those properties and are no longer connected to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u82	Madam President! As I said earlier, this is a very multi-sectoral and multi-ministerial matter. Among other things, with Minister Niinistö, we have the protection police with us, and we also have a working group from the Ministry of Defence on this, and they will meet here very soon. We will then be able to assess the results of these reports on what can still be done. But these very things, to which you have referred, will also be dealt with here. There is nothing new to report at this stage, but we will certainly do so if there is one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u83	Minister Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u84	Mr President! As a complement to what Minister Risiko said before, the Security Committee has indeed been working on this matter during the last parliamentary term and has produced a report on it in the last year. The Ministry of Defence has now, in a way, taken responsibility for this project so far. Of course, this project belongs to the Ministry of Justice, but the Ministry of Defence, in good cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Chief Staff, is working at the moment to find out — these are about a hundred vague real estate transactions in Finland, this figure is announced to the public — and when we have completed the study, probably next spring, possibly next March, it will be handed over to the Ministry of Justice for possible legislative measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u85	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u86	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Competitiveness Pact is an excellent indication that Finland is also able to agree and make large decisions in a centralised manner, in agreement with one another. It could be said that this type of solution is unique in Finland, but there are certainly not many similar examples in the world where, in such broad agreement, centrally agreed, solutions can be made to strengthen and improve the competitiveness of one's own country. This is also the case in the proposal before us today, which will bring about savings in the competitiveness pact in the context of adult education. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has dealt with this issue and they point out that these proposed changes are a better option than the previously planned conversion of aid into a loan-oriented approach, and this solution has therefore arisen through joint negotiations and agreement between employers and workers. Adult education allowance continues to provide employees with financial support during a reasonable period of study, and it is an incentive for those entering the labour market to develop skills for the changing needs of the working and business world and to improve the opportunities for their own employment. This committee's report goes through very well what has been achieved in adult education and also the way it has worked in these times. But I myself drew attention to the fact that, as the committee itself has pointed out, there is less participation in adult education and training for those with the greatest need for training. This is a good thing to take into account, and it is hoped that more stakes will now be made so that we can get more people to stick to the side of the job and keep it in a way that, in the future, there will also be work and skilled staff for different tasks in the changing working life. But, Mr President, the reason why I wanted to speak about this is, in fact, this competitiveness pact, which was also discussed last time in Question Time. I understand that the Left Alliance has resolutely opposed it, but I am pleased that otherwise the parties have wanted to respect the agreement of both employers and workers on this issue. As I said, this is unique in Finland, but also perhaps worldwide. There are countries where different reductions in unit labour costs and wages have been made, but this is not the way to agree, so widely between employees and employers as in Finland through this competitiveness pact. That, in my opinion, is an indication that we have a broad understanding of the economic situation in this country and that we will not get away with this without solutions of this kind, so that our competitiveness is strengthened and that we will have more work and employment in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u87	Mr President! I have to comment on this speech by Mr Heinonen when he inspired this as a model of agreement. We have marriages and forced marriages in the world. In my opinion, this part of the competitiveness pact falls within the scope of compulsory agreement, because it is worth remembering that the government's proposal for full adult education aid would have been converted into a loan. This would have meant that the system that is specifically preventing unemployment in our society would have been completely destroyed. In this forced break, the parts fit this weakening. If we look at the benefits of this adult education, more than 90% of the employers whose employees have been trained believe that this has been a good, workable solution, and an even greater proportion of those workers. This also involves training for those sectors that are in need: health care, social security, education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u88	Mr President! This bill now before us is considerably better than the original one. The original proposal proposed that the aid be entirely loan-oriented, and this would certainly have reduced the use of the aid. Now, in spite of these handicaps — and this is where this support comes in — this support will, however, provide financial support to an adult student during his or her studies. According to surveys carried out in 2014, 96 per cent of the users of the aid actually felt that this support was quite or very important as an enabler of study. Without this support, many adult students would not have had the opportunity to study. In addition to or between adult work, this study has many positive effects on well-being at work, career advancement, longer working careers and so on. This kind of support is also beneficial for society. Unfortunately, however, one thing remained missing in this bill. There has been a total failure to carry out a gender impact assessment. Indeed, the committee was quite unanimous in this criticism that this evaluation should definitely have been carried out, because statistics also show that women particularly use adult education support, and that is why these legislative changes have a greater impact on women-dominated sectors. If the law thus affects one sex more than the other, then the gender impact assessment should never be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u89	Mr President! After all, it is a question of weakening the study opportunities of people already in paid employment, supplementary studies, innovative studies, additional studies. As such, it is a good example of how in this process, in which we agreed on kiiky and its follow-up, there was no understanding of where this society should be taken from the perspective of the national economy as well as from the perspective of people's well-being and general civilisation. We are moving to a world where both the state of the labour market and the survival of individuals are crucial skills, not qualifications. We are moving to a world where there is a need for more opportunities for learning in all the possible forms we can imagine, in all the possible stages of life, both digital and local. We are moving to a world in which its teaching must be self-reliant, not guided by the employer or the authority, because neither employers nor authorities will ultimately be able to find the key weaknesses in the need for knowledge in the same way as the person who needs to complete his skills. If you look at the real competitiveness problems of our economy, you will find them quite different from the fact that this group is already too educated. For example, Tekes' survey showed to international investors that Finnish companies are losing to their competitors in other countries, precisely because they are less willing to make new bold openings, to introduce new innovations. Where other parts of the world are dared to jump into an unknown, Finnish business culture is more of a gradual, rational but very cautious, product improvement. If you look at our public contributions to research and development, you will see the same tendence. In the rest of the world, at least in those countries that are our main competitors, there is a great deal of investment in new innovations, in new bold openings, in Finland, even the minor research and development efforts — half of what is allocated in Sweden, for example, relative to the size of the country’s economy — are directed towards more cautious product improvements, not new major ones. Well, we also have some worrying information about the direction of our university system. A study has recently been published that, according to the university staff's own assessment, the indicators that have been applied on the business side to the higher education world have led to a significant increase in zero research — over-emphasis on the amount of paper and on the content of the text on paper. This is an extremely worrying development, if this assessment is correct, because it means that our research system is falling apart from the inside, as it were, unnoticed. There is a process which is threatening our competitiveness in 10 to 20 years' time, not to mention national human capital. All right, why did I talk about all this? Because, in the future, it is assumed that production, and hence the related development work and knowledge, will become increasingly dispersed in smaller units, under smaller players, and in that case these large national control systems, which I have listed here, will no longer be able to support our expertise and international competitiveness in the same way as they have been in the past. The reform work and the effort that we should now find is precisely the development of the human capital of individual people and of these groups. We are a small country and we have little natural resources, but we have these people who are already pretty good at studying. There is great madness if we do not allow them to study as much as the soul tolerates, both from the point of view of money and, above all, from the point of view of people. That is why, Mr President, I propose that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u90	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u91	Mr President! It is clear that the draft law before us is much better than the government's original proposal to convert adult education into a loan. Nevertheless, it is regrettable that this adult education aid is the least used by those who need it most and the least. On the basis of comprehensive school, only 4% of our employees, even less entrepreneurs, only 0.5% of all entrepreneurs, will benefit from adult education support, and that will be a major challenge in the future where we can also train these crowds. There was already talk about how important it would have been to carry out a gender impact assessment in this context, because indeed more than 80% of users are women, but it would have been even more important to carry out an impact assessment on the synergy of different laws, because at the same time the government is making huge cuts in education, including from universities, and it cannot help but affect how adult education support will function in the future. It is worth noting that this is one of the few ways to update skills during work, even the only way to develop skills full-time, but to ensure income. And as we reflect on the working life of the future and on the working life of today, it is all the more important that each of us keeps up-to-date and also develops, because the profession in which we study at a young age is no longer very likely to be the profession from which we retire.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u92	Mr President! This continuation of adult education in the context of the Competitiveness Pact is indeed extremely important, but the amount of aid will be reduced and the maximum duration will be reduced by around 15% and the duration after the transition period will be reduced by four months from 19 months to 15 months. As many have said here, this is, of course, better than the government's original intention of lending. In that sense, these comments here are extremely correct that, at a time like this, we certainly must not go out of business with this kind of support, because it is so important that people can update their skills but also acquire new training and change their profession. Around half of those receiving adult education support are aged between 30 and 40 years, and here Mrs Filatov was probably the first to point out how important it is to see what these gender effects are, because at least we know that this support is currently being used most by those working in the social and health sector and in the public administration and commerce sector, so it is quite likely that this group of users is rather female. Forty per cent of the beneficiaries work in the public sector and, at the same time, after talking about the cuts that this kiky agreement brings to the public side, it would have been very unreasonable if adult education aid had changed in such a way that this loan-oriented approach would have become. Above all, however, it is important that this continuation was secured. I think that the committee's report has put forward these criticisms very well, and in that sense the Christian Democrats can live with this proposal, but it must be pointed out in the future that in times like this we cannot afford to go down the road to reducing adult education support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u93	Mr President! 96% of the users of this aid say that the aid has been a fairly or very important factor, that it has enabled them to apply for training. That is why I find it worrying that the government has gnawed quite a few forms of education for working people from all over the world. This is a bit of a stick: if we look at labour market policy training, which, by the way, is targeted at people who have very little education, it will be cut off. When the government started, there were about 22,000 people in education, and next year's budget allows only 9,000 people to be trained. And if we look at, for example, the most difficult projects on the labour force, the aim is to support young people and little older people on the path of education, one good example of this is, for example, the Valo training which has enabled them to learn and complete part of the degree. We'll have zero funding next year, too. We have many such elements, but it is even more important to think about what our education system prevents less educated people from training, and to look for models where we can also get those who are less anti-educational, to train, and then it is about learning, and it is also about many labour policy projects that are now funded with zero funding. When we talk about gender impact assessment, I would like to say that when this support is used by a lot of women, the reason for making gender impact assessments is how it affects women. But even greater reason to make sexual impact assessments is why men do not use this,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u96	Mr President! Indeed, in committee, this government proposal improved considerably and became fairer. This proposal states that the reduction in the duration of adult education and the reduction in its level will result in savings in adult education in accordance with the competitiveness agreement. Mr President! Competitiveness savings — we are saving competitiveness. So I ask the government: how will Finland rise from competitiveness by saving? Should we not improve competitiveness if Finland is to rise? This is a simple text. By calculating all the savings in education that this government is making, we are already well over a billion. A while ago there was a village school event in the Finnish Parliament's Citizens' Info, and it was shown that these savings, which are now being made by 2019, will lead to the level of our education falling into the 1920s. I am quite concerned about this, and I hope that the government will hear this speech now, and that it will also be concerned about how we can improve competitiveness, make Finland constantly rise by saving competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u97	Minister of Finance, 1 minute off the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u98	Mr President! Generally speaking, I quite agree that the whole of our long-term competitiveness is based on Finnish competence and on the fine products of that competence, which must be brought at a competitive price to the world. But as far as these educational savings are concerned, of course it will hurt. We've had to save money from everywhere. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if I have not made a serious miscalculation here, we will also be spending EUR 16 billion this year on education, education, research. It's a huge amount. Of course, we need to think here about how to minimise the need for savings, but at the same time we need to think about how we spend its EUR 16 billion as efficiently as possible on early childhood education, primary school, secondary school, vocational education, university education, research, product development. This is the work the government is doing, because we cannot help it that debt should be broken down and saved, but at the same time we are doing everything we can to ensure that the money that is being spent effectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u99	Mr President! From the point of view of its efficient use of 16 billion, it would be extremely important that the list, when it is mentioned, be remembered for the open civilization, as it was called in the old days. Perhaps the fastest growing sectors of education in the world are precisely such an information or loosely committed skills upgrading, which is also the subject of this training cut that we are dealing with here. We should make a strong effort to make access to education in different forms, in different places as easy as possible and as accessible to everyone as possible. There has been criticism here of this money for education, about the fact that it is the least used by those who need it most. If, on this basis, we start to think about what kind of education is reasonable and what is not, then the university should be completely abolished, because there is no one there but those who have already received quite a lot of education before that. Yet we are not doing this because the accumulation of education is not a problem in itself. The problem is if it accumulates because some people are denied access to education or there is no training available to meet the needs of some. But I do not believe that there is any way we can get into a situation where, if education is of high quality, people would study the ruin of this country — history does not set such an example — but that the education we are able to produce is always a plus for our economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u100	Mr President! At the previous reading, I said: I am a friend of education, but not a friend of education that is overly or incorrectly targeted. We still have a continuous increase in the unemployment rate of doctors, and we cannot afford it. What I have been talking about in practice with entrepreneurs and employers is what the worker teaches, and in a world of limited resources, I would also raise the issue of learning at work in addition to this adult education. Yes, a good employer allows and allows his employee to study alongside work if new skills are needed at the workplace. Employers are not as helpless in this as the Left wants to present, nor are the citizens who need education. That's why the government's proposal is justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u101	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his open and honest answer and for his clear desire to discuss it. We share the view that saving education has not been an easy thing. The opposition also understands this need for savings. But at the same time, the question arises as to whether it is really the case that the savings in education are now where the focus is really pregnant. Could this branch of education be a little lighter with this savings leg? Why don't we take it somewhere else so we don't drop it? The Minister is probably aware that we have a collapse in the number of patent applications. I'm sure there's a causal connection between these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u102	Mr President! I am going to go to this original subject, this bill on this adult education programme. In the course of the committee's consultation, it became very clear to us that, despite the fact that the aid months are now being cut short, this model is better than having the whole system turned into a loan-oriented system. It is still felt that this support is an effective and feasible and adequate way of completing its own training, complementing it, and helping people in working life to progress on a career, improving their own labour market position. I would like to emphasise that this became clear during the committee debate that, despite these kiky savings, this channel still works and is a good way for people in working life to take their skills forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u103	Mr President! As has been said here, this adult education operation is an infinite one, could you say, even a sad one, insofar as we should be able to maintain lifelong learning and ensure that everyone is able to develop their skills? The unfortunate fact is that the government has now cut through knowledge at all levels, both in early childhood education, basic education, from a different level than in higher education. Add to this the weakening of working life and unemployment security, all in all, there is a great risk that if we are not able to respond to this strengthening and development of working life and skills, then our competitiveness will be further reduced. The second point is that we know that the level of our expertise at international level has fallen over the last few years. In that respect, these proposals made by the government are also unsupportable and do not support the development of the skills that we should be doing. We also know that, because society and working life are developing at an enormous rate, if we do not maintain and develop knowledge, then our working life will not be able to meet the needs of competition. In that respect, the stronger we can develop our own expertise as an adult, the stronger we will be in a position to develop working life and the more competitive working life will be in the international market as well as in the domestic market. This has cross-cutting elements, both from an individual's point of view and from the point of view of our society as a whole and from the point of view of society's development, and therefore cuts in adult education are a real shame.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u104	Mr President! Just as Mr Kiljunen said, we would like an overall impact assessment of all the cuts and changes in education, and that is what this bill would have wanted to have done so that we could speak with a stronger voice about it. Mr Kontula, you said in your own speech that there is no need to worry that this adult education allowance is the least used by those who need it most. I think it is a genuine concern, and that does not mean that this support is not working well, but I think that as politicians we should be concerned and think about how we will receive training for those who need it most and who would benefit most. It does not in any way underestimate this support for adult education. We know that the impact study on adult education shows that economic reasons are the main obstacle to education. Adult education allowance is precisely one of the possibilities to study for many people who would otherwise not have been able to go to study. In this respect, I understand the criticism of the Left Alliance that this support is being cut. However, as has been said, a small cut is better than the government’s original proposal to convert the aid into a loan. It is hoped that further studies will be carried out to examine the long-term impact of adult education on employment. At least now they are unknown to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u105	Mr President! Firstly, I would say to Mr Järvinen that perhaps this difference between us is based on the fact that I do not see that what determines the need for human education is directly reflected in his or her education history or lack of it, but that the need for education, especially in relation to a particular education, is of course linked to the situation in which this person is in life — what he does for work or otherwise in life, what skills he needs and what shortcomings he may have with regard to these skills, and whether this aparate is right to respond to these shortcomings. The main reason why this system may not be used by completely unskilled people is that, first of all, there may be a relatively small number of people in paid employment who are able to use it at all, and then, of course, that often people with very low levels of education have bad experiences of a traditional education system to which this support is particularly directed. In their case, the solution is another type of study or a society in which you can live without everyone having to study very far. Then I would like to comment a little on this: why do I think that the authority and the employer are not the best, or at least not enough, to assess what is education, what a person needs, and why I support and defend self-styled learning. Well, first of all, the employer is bad at the fact that the employer is far from always aware of the career plan and future development of its employee. The employer considers it from the perspective of a specific task. Secondly, the employer is bad at it because, in the future, employment relationships are less and less long-term, so that it is the employer who is able to assess the life cycle and the skills in the long term. Thirdly, because a person who is increasingly studying in the future is not in a paid employment relationship and has no employer who is able to make this assessment. If we look at how employers have currently assessed our training needs, one recent study shows, for example, that 80% of industrial employers in Amsterdam train their employees to detect and analyse various weak signals and trends in society in order to be able to respond to the reaction capacity that the company needs to renew and develop its own products. Even in China, the figure is well over 50, while in Finland it remains at 49 per cent. In Finland, more than half of industrial employers do not consider this kind of education to be necessary in the first place. I believe that this is one of the main reasons why, despite the fact that our products in international rankings are being penalised to the top, our products are not being bought. We lack this kind of soft knowledge, understanding of people and societies, which is needed to make those products end up in a ready-made box there for consumers to use. These are precisely the skills that are despised in our society and which are the first to be reduced when education is reduced. Let me take one example: Do you know which country led the game industry of long-term games for girls, which was therefore a huge source of business? United States. Why? Because it was the only one in the world that had the intelligence to connect the gaming industry with gender research. It was the first thing in the world to realize that even girls play games as long as they are made so that they are interesting to girls. In Finland, gender research is the first on the operating list, especially if the operating list is being drawn up by the Finns of Finland. Another example: today, if I were a taxi driver, in order to ensure my future employment, I would suddenly begin to practice playing computer games, because in the future robot cars will significantly change the nature of the work in the transport sector, and the skills you develop when you play games will be absolutely essential skills when you have to think about how you can cope with those robot cars in the future. Above all, if you think of the jobs that are most likely to last in the world of the future, they are precisely jobs linked to culture and social relations. You can't send them to Bangladesh. They can't be taken care of by robots. They are the ones that we are able to maintain here and which we will be able to value long after routine, easily transferable work has been moved elsewhere. By the time this society understands this, we are already well on our way to solving our competitiveness problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u106	Mr President! Representative Kontula should use those skills and knowledge in practice and put the business in a position to show us,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u109	Mr President! This support is particularly used by nurses and other social and health care professionals, who are often family people, which makes it very difficult for them to take out a loan in that situation anymore. They are often not young people. I know a lot of these people and they tell me that they want to use this support because, firstly, they want to move on to their careers or, secondly, they want to get into a whole new job, which requires their training. Many also tell me that studying will help them to cope, and when that well - being comes, this will lengthen their careers. And when I have talked to the superiors on this matter, the superiors feel that the working community benefits in many ways from every such worker who wants to train and develop himself, and that is why we should be happy with every employee who wants to train and support him as much as possible in this matter. I myself have spent ten years as a community trainer, i.e. traveling around different jobs, hundreds and then hundreds again. I have noticed that the worst opponents of change are those workers who do not regularly train, who do not go anywhere smelling new winds and who are not interested in learning new things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u110	Mr President! Now that so much is being discussed here and, in my own opinion, expertly, about education and training in working life, I wonder how many people here have experience of real working life in recent years and how it works there. As far as I am concerned, I can tell you from experience that if an employer, especially in the private sector, needs some kind of knowledge on something, then they will also be trained with big investments, let employees study what is needed. That's how it actually works. At the same time, there are development discussions in working life to examine the person’s career plans, training needs and development targets. These are the things that in normal life actually work there locally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u111	Mr President! We are talking with Mr Kontula about both Finns, who have the least education, and I believe that, for some reason, we are talking to each other across the board without referring to very divided ideas. We certainly agree that we need different means of further training for people with low qualifications. We need learning at work, training in employment, but I would also like those in primary school to find adult education better, because, as researched, it improves their ability to work and their ability to work, and it is also a means of prolonging their careers. It is recalled that only those who have attended comprehensive school have the greatest problem of all, and their employment is much more difficult than those with the highest levels of education. For example, an unemployed person under the age of 30 is employed with a 50 per cent probability, an average of 40 per cent in upper secondary education and only 17 per cent in comprehensive school. This is the reason why we in this society are very much in favour of considering how we can get the least educated people to train themselves more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u112	Mr President! In this regard, it might also be useful to remember the fact that if people who are in the most difficult situation and who specifically need adult education support are told that this training should run with the loan, then they will not be able to obtain that loan. We do not have a training loan today in this country that you can obtain if, for example, your credit information has gone. But what is most important is to hold on to the jobs and to hold on to the people who work there. There are, of course, other possibilities, such as apprenticeship training at the workplace, which is a very good option. It should be borne in mind that, at this very moment, when unemployment seems to have fallen slightly, long-term unemployment has increased. It is now time to work to ensure that long-term unemployment does not increase. Now is the last time to break the cycle that this country is now drifting into. If it is said that there is a fine rise, would it not, Minister, be possible to channel that rise a little where it is needed? For example, Anttila’s employees now received a 10% raise from a bankruptcy estate, and the Financial Supervisory Authority announces that this is a bonus, this is a golden handshake, and their qualifying period is extended because of this issue. That means that these people will achieve marginalisation before they can even catch up with unemployment benefits. Yes, we need to be able to grasp things like this and also these low-paid people, for whom it really means that the bottom falls from under the whole life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u113	Mr President! I can underline every word that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has just said in his excellent speech. He was just talking with heart about how things are in the care sector, where adult education support has been used much in its various forms of career advancement, raising the level of education — there are many reasons. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out this dimension, which, in my view, has not been seen before in this debate: how important this is not only for the person in his own mental growth, but also for the kind of worker he may have in that working environment after he understands and wants to train. Indeed, and often I have experienced, both as an employee and as a supervisor myself, that a person who does not seek inspiration and new ideas and upgrades that knowledge may have a problem with the other side of the beach, or that he does not want to learn new methods of treatment or practices that have been studied, and this is hard for the whole work community, perhaps. So I would like to say that the wisest supervisory work is that of finding out the willingness of the employees of the working community to develop themselves and, together, to discuss the options for adapting this training to the work and the advancement of the working life of this worker. Wise supervisory work is to support the training of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u114	Mr President! Congressman Mäkelä got me excited to take the floor. First of all, you have to think about who's been working here for so long. It may be said that I have been working in the construction sector for 35 years, and in it I have been a part-time head of trust right away, and I have seen how young people who come to the work experiment behave, how they operate on the site, or how they work for the long-term unemployed, when they are taken to work, the motive grows there, and how that desire to find a new profession or strengthen it is still there and that job goes on. The only thing that bothers me very much is that when this budget is cut off from adult education and other education, such innovations and new fields and applying for them will be cut off by the possibility of its study place. The second is the government's objective of receiving the 72% employment: it is a good objective, and it would probably then give new jobs, and I hope that they will be created for the young people who are looking for jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u115	Mr President! We all certainly have some work experience in open and different markets. Some people have it more recent and some have it older, but it is always limited because it comes from their own work experience. However, when the Ministry of Labour or TEAM conducts a work-life barometer, it has asked a very large number of Finns how they experience their own development opportunities at the workplace, and for example it clearly shows that the greater the job is, the better the opportunities for training and new learning are in most cases, and in industry, for example, they are much smaller than in private services, for example, the state and the municipality they are better than on the private side of these same tasks. Then, if you look at the socio-economic situation, you will see clear differences, that is, the better the position, the higher the job, the better the opportunities for training, but when you come to the employee level and to the lower staff, less than 30 percent of them actually feel that they can learn new things in their work and that their training opportunities are good. I was once told by an employer who, in my opinion, wisely said when we talked about training and why older workers are not generally trained, that it is thought that the aged person will go away if it is trained for another job, but then he thought a little further that if he does not invest in that older worker, then God forbid it if it stays and does not know how. In other words, it would also be worth considering in the same way when considering those categories of workers who are less educated, whether it is worth training from the employer's point of view or not, mainly from the point of view that if that worker stays, then he is not as good and productive as he is more skilled, and that is why it is worth investing in these less educated groups as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u116	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u117	Mr President! This is the third amending budget, a number of things about it. Firstly, a reduction in revenue of 210 million and an increase in appropriations of 106 million, and in view of these, the third draft amending budget for 16 will increase the need for net government borrowing by 317 million. The estimate of actual income will be reduced net by EUR 210 million and the estimate of tax revenue will be increased net by EUR 608 million. This is based in particular on the tax accrual data at the beginning of the year on the basis of which it is proposed to increase the estimate of income from taxes on earnings and capital income, corporate tax and VAT. On the other hand, the tax revenue has been lower than expected for inheritance and gift tax, among other things. The estimate of dividend and share sales income will be reduced by EUR 758 million. The change concerns the transfer of income for 2017 and 2018. If we look at this whole, the government has decidedly not to increase expenditure and thus not to increase the deficit, which is admittedly a problem. These main explanatory factors can be found precisely in the transfer of income from dividends and sales to next year. From the point of view of corporate governance, it has been a more sensible ownership policy to make these incomes, to achieve these achieved sales revenue, next year. Furthermore, it should be noted that this year the total cost of asylum seekers is EUR 734 million higher than in 2015. In other words, there are, of course, some of the main reasons for this, apart from the fact that unfortunately we still have high levels of unemployment with rising expenditure, and pension spending is also increasing. So this explains these so-called big figures, and I would stress that the government itself has stuck to its strict 4 billion savings programme, and even though some decisions have been changed or even withdrawn,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u120	Mr President! In connection with the Internal Security Report, it was said that the number of police officers would be established to a minimum of 7,000 police officers. Now this draft amending budget did not add to the police budget. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister whether it should be understood that this year is in order, but there will be more money in the supplementary budget for next year, so that it will be 7000 or 7200, as it was yesterday in the Ministry of the Interior's press release, that is to say, more money will be coming in, that is to say this year's care and care for next year as well. My second question concerns immigration issues. This draft amending budget states that the costs are EUR 820 million higher than the normal situation, which means that between 3000 and 400,000 asylum seekers have come. These are big numbers. The situation in Finland is that we were somewhat surprised. No one was able to anticipate the situation last year, and the resulting effects will now be passed on, which will then be reflected in this draft amending budget, when we have to add a little bit more to it. The question now is: when the government programme includes a record of the costs of immigration, the impact on our society, so that we can have a real debate on the factors that immigration has — good effects, negative effects, costs, benefits, disadvantages — when is this study coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u121	Mr President! This third amending budget is under discussion and is likely to be the last of this year. A fine prediction lies in the growth of GDP, and this moderate growth is mainly driven by the development of private consumption and investment. With the Minister of Finance here, perhaps a little bit of the future you could outline what these coming years will look like from the point of view of our economy. Yes, there is concern about the long-term unemployed. Although we are on the verge of a slight decline and a turnaround for the better, the number of long-term unemployed is on the increase and we certainly need more measures here too. This year, government borrowing will increase to nearly EUR 6 billion with this additional budget, and at the end of this year there will be EUR 105.8 billion in debt, which is about 50 per cent of GDP. We've got a lot of work to do to break this debt. I welcome the fact that there are these small increases for agriculture. It is our job to take care of domestic food production, and thank you for that, Mr Finance Minister. I would also like to ask about these police funds. Is it true that we will be able to maintain this promised level next year? There is also still a lack of funding for crisis response veterans in the budget. Is it intended to be ensured that this law now before us can be brought to the end as set out? Mr President! I'll take it from there. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, that 2 minutes is going to be so fast on your own, so briefly here. We have a budget of EUR 1.6 billion for key projects during this term of government, and these funds and key projects have already been implemented. Let's hope they can renovate the land and keep the wheels running. The Prime Minister has said that the balance sheet will be put on the job and has said that this key project funding will be made with property income, so I would like to ask the Minister of Finance how this revenue side is now on schedule, i.e. whether we have been able to find these revenue sides on the balance sheet or whether the key projects have, at this stage, been financed with additional debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u122	In its third amending budget, the government proposes a net increase of EUR 38 million in the costs of immigration or, I would say, more honestly, mainly of living standards and asylum tourism. In addition, the total price of this phenomenon is estimated at almost EUR 1 billion compared to the usual number of 3000 to 4400 asylum seekers. Yes, these figures make the undersigned at least gasp. It is clear and honest to admit that these 820 million dollars per year, as an additional cost to immigration, are not enough; this asylum process is just the beginning. When some of those who may need that asylum get it, integration will begin, and then it will be easy to pay 20 years to the taxpayer before perhaps there is a possibility of paying some kind of net tax. We have learned from interviews with the Ministry of Labour that the level of education of asylum seekers is not particularly commendable, and it is difficult to imagine that a particularly large proportion of these people would be employed very quickly in Finland. I am not satisfied with this situation, neither with the draft amending budget nor with the actual budget. I would like to know what steps have been taken to reduce the unit costs and the total costs of reception. In addition, I look forward to new proposals to tighten up immigration policy. I hope that the government will turn every stone and effort into legislation so that we can save the maintenance of these young men of prime age, while continuing to cut income transfers elsewhere in society as our annual eating debt grows on the back of taxpayers — or, in fact, on the back of future taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, when the response has been requested by some of the same people who are here to speak, and when the speeches appear to be on average to be two minutes' speeches, we shall proceed with two minutes' speeches. If, then, the representative wants to exceed 2 minutes, he can certainly come here, and then we will assess the need for possible responses. — Now Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u124	Mr President! At the end of August, the government agreed on a crisis package of EUR 50 million for agriculture. Of this money, this draft amending budget includes EUR 35 million. Of this EUR 7.5 million is Finland’s national share of the milk package agreed by a separate EU decision. That is half, this national share, and the other half comes from the EU. Then there is EUR 27.5 million in national aid. In particular, I would like to express the hope to Minister Orpo that this EUR 27.5 million transfer allocation will also be a reasonable contribution to Southern Finland, so that the whole money will not go to the north again. Such a method, actually the only one available, would be to use it to cancel the 2018 compensatory allowance for natural handicaps. After all, there was an agreement on a cut in the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps, and that was the intention to cancel. This is an issue that affects the whole country, but also southern Finland, and it would be a matter of equal treatment for the whole country. It has been estimated that EUR 18 million may be needed. In other words, when you are a minister in Turku, it would be good if you would also, Minister, hold the side of Southern Finland in this area of natural handicap compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u126	Mr President! The third amending budget under discussion for 2016 contains a number of bright spots. Private consumption has turned up, leading, among other things, to an increase in VAT revenue of EUR 141 million. Private investment is also projected to increase by more than 4%, which is probably due at least to some of the decisions taken by Parliament and the government to turn the conditions for employment and entrepreneurship into growth. The return on car tax has remained at least on level with the previous year or even slightly increased despite the fact that the car tax was drastically reduced. The number of registered passenger cars will increase to 112,000, which is important for the renewal of our fleet. The employment rate has risen slightly from one year ago, and according to the statistics of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, there are around 8,000 fewer unemployed persons than last year. However, the number of unemployed remains close to 330,000, which is far too high, and the share of the long-term unemployed in particular has increased. Mr President! There are other issues in this amending budget which must continue to be given particular attention. The ratio of public debt to GDP has risen worryingly by more than 64%, and in the long term it will be necessary to break the increase in debt because, as interest costs increase with an inexorable rise in interest rates, the budget would otherwise become more deficit-free in the future. Mr President! Finally, as a result of last year's immigration crisis, immigration costs have risen dramatically and are already at least EUR 1 billion, probably more. It is hoped that the costs of immigration will be reduced
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u127	Honorable Speaker! I believe that this third additional budget is a good whole, and this will continue to give us jobs, investment and economic growth in Finland. Of course, there will be an additional debt of 316 million, and in these additional budgets for the current year, the additional debt is therefore in proportion to that first draft budget, which totals 630 million more than was planned at the time. Of course, most of it comes from this cost of immigration, which is 820 million in relation to that normal level. Now it comes to mind that when we have about 8,000 homeless Finns in Finland, could we, in Finland 100, start a programme that would enable us to get the roof on top of everyone, such a programme. We have found that these about 35,000 to 40,000 immigrants here can colonize the vodka, but how can we not get this roof over their heads for 8,000 homeless people? Could such a program be developed? That is what I am thinking about in this sense. Well, then I would like to raise one more point, and that is this frequency auction that we are about to launch here. Six canal packages will be auctioned and the starting price will be á 11 million copies, and therefore at least 66 million will be available for next year's budget if everything goes to trade. But if we were somehow still able to run this auction, taking into account, among other things, the possible listing of this DNA, and to get even more competition for that auction, we might be able to obtain considerable additional revenue from the sale of these multiplexes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u128	Mr President! It is good that the representatives of the government parties have also drawn attention here to the fact that this amending budget is once again in debt. More than 300 million additional debt is taken here, and the total amount of debt is always going to be there for the 6 billion. We have been concerned about this on numerous occasions in the SDP, and our choice is based on taking less debt next year than the government will. And the reason why the government is in debt is, of course, because adequate measures have not been taken to promote employment in the 18 months and a half that the government has sat here. We've had a lot of performances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u132	When the minister has an important appointment right now, I will now give him the floor, say three minutes at maximum, and then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u133	Mr President! It is a pity that the previous debate took so long: Vice-President Timmermans is waiting for me, I have to hurry there. Otherwise, I'd love to be here to talk. That's a quick comment. First of all, crisis response veterans. This is the government's proposal in Parliament, and the money will come into force on 1 January 17 in the supplementary proposal. Cops came up here in a lot of places. Yes, we are committed to the fact that less than 7,000 will not go. This year, police resources have been secured. Next year we will add 8.5 million to the police; 1.5 million to the protection police will be enough for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u136	Let me now give you a few answers. The ingredients of Debrat exist here. The Minister will be able to be here for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u137	Mr President! That is where the Minister said that employment is the most important thing in terms of the overall picture of the economy, and that is something we certainly cannot disagree with. This third amending budget has therefore brought to my attention the fact that it proposes a reduction of EUR 20 million for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Labour and Life in the EU Structural Funds programmes, and the reason is that the start-up of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Development Programme will be delayed. However, if we look at what can be done with this money, it can be done in the very regions where unemployment is greatest, in the north and in the east. Why is this happening? I ask this because there is a great deal of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u138	Mr President! Obviously and clearly, the shadow budget of the SDP, for which time was set aside yesterday, was too much overshadowed by Trump's choice when the whole oral Question Time and this year's amending budget must then be used to present it. But, Minister, I would like to thank you for this EUR 35 million for the need for agriculture. As a former Minister of Agriculture, you know the situation in our agriculture. But I don't know what I'm going to ask you. EUR 1.4 million will be allocated to the Rural Development Agency in order to implement this crisis support. Farmers' subsidies will be paid earlier, as early as this year, and then to ensure the continuation of the development work necessary for the implementation of the farmers' subsidies. Why do we always need extra money? What, then, are the basic functions of Mavi, where is the normal budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u139	Mr President! I will not go into these shadow budgets any further, but I will take Mr Viitanen from the small point when Mr Viitanen said that the government can afford a car tax rebate. Indeed, considering that the car tax is plus EUR 60 million, the sale of new cars has increased by 6,000 cars, so tax reductions can increase tax revenues. So I ask the Minister of Finance: Where else could this mechanics work than just this car tax? Should we consider such items where we could increase tax revenue by lowering taxes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u142	Yes, this is where the government has tried very hard to lower the tax on the good people. It is only a little sad when I read those estimates by the Council for the Evaluation of Legislation on what could be employed, for example, by these reductions in self-employment, in the form of reductions in pharmacies and others, that I did not find such a text very much there, although I did actually look very carefully at them, which would have said that they had an impact on employment. When Minister Orpo here has just said that employment is the most important thing, how on earth can we afford tax cuts that do not contribute to growth and employment? Then, where the difference is now, the famous difference, Minister Orpo, is precisely that in our alternative, the 95% of wage and salary earners and pensioners benefit more than in the government's proposal and they are precisely the low- and medium-income, ordinary hard-working families of children, pensioners. It is their purchasing power that helps employment. And then again, the most fortunate of all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u143	At this point, I would like to give the floor to Mr Kiuru and then to the Minister. The Minister's timetable is running out, and I will see to it that the various groups now receive a reply, and that is why Mr Kiuru and then the Minister will have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u144	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. Turunen suggested that taxes should be lowered and therefore tax revenues raised. I understand that when the corporation tax has been reduced as much as twice as I recall and it was done during the last parliamentary term, it has happened that the tax revenue has increased. I also understand that the impact on employment has been positive, and perhaps the Minister can answer this question as to whether I have remembered and understood correctly. Then I would like to thank you again for this police matter. In fact, there was quite a lot of news to say when the Internal Security Report talked about the establishment of 7,000 police officers and now the Minister said that next year we will be in 7200.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u147	Two more minutes on the spot for the minister. According to yours, you'll have to leave after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u148	Mr President! I can still give you the last answers. So it's about 7200, I don't remember the exact amount now, and here I've learned to be careful with these figures. But what is essentially essential is that the employment of those policemen and women who have fixed-term contracts this year, which will end at the turn of the year, will now be able to continue with this additional money. So we have the maximum strength, and we certainly won't go under that 7,000. This is essential. To this end, 95 or 100. So we respect the kiky agreement which agreed on a package that reduced the taxation of these people with higher incomes but would not have reduced the taxation of people with low and middle incomes, and the government is directing it to its own. I'm gonna have to see if it's against the kiky deal that you're canceling your tax reduction. It's an interesting detail. All in all, however, I believe that tax reductions will have dynamic effects. The reduction in corporation tax has brought more into the cash register than it did. In the car tax, we saw the same thing. As far as labour taxation is concerned, I am quite sure that, now that we come to the line that labour taxation will be reduced and continued whenever possible, it will bring dynamism, it will bring new work and it will encourage people to take up work. I thank Parliament for an excellent debate. I'd love to keep going, but I've got to keep going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u149	If there is still strength in the debate, then there are those who have been asked to speak: Mr Heinonen, Mr Hoskonen, Mr Hakkarainen, Mr Järvinen, Mr Kiviranta, Mr Mäkelä, all these contributions. Let's go through these, then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u150	Mr President! The Socialist alternative budget — I took it out of that parliamentary rack — was also mentioned here, and it says: "It is therefore easy to see how the Sipilä Government has favoured the highest income category. It changed the tax scales in 2016 in such a way that the CEO who earns EUR 12,000 a month has the same tax percentage as half of the expert who earns it." Is this true? That's not true. This can go through Hakaniemi Square, but it does not go through the Finnish Parliament. And this is a document from that Parliament stand which says: the debate initiative, Antti Lindtman, the Social Democrats and others. Those who earn EUR 12,000 have nearly 10 percentage points higher taxation than those who earn EUR 6000. The Social Democrats argue quite differently in their own alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u151	In the meantime, we will grant Mr Haraka the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u152	Mr President! It is good that Mr Heinonen has read Olli Kärkkäinen’s tweet, which woke him to notice this childhood that we have corrected. We have immediately corrected it in public. How has the government corrected its own proposals and cancelled them? A little on a different scale. It has now been fixed in the electronic version for a long time. And by the way, you did not notice that the same childhood was in the alternative budget in 2016, that you have now slowly woken up to question this issue. I am sorry that a mistake has been made, but it is a one-word correction and it has already been implemented a long time ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u153	Mr President! It is a good thing that that error is acknowledged, but this version is still being distributed in Parliament. This is the official version of the Parliament's documentation body, and it's black and white. You don't have to read anyone's TV, you have to read the parliamentary papers that have been brought here. These should be corrected if they have such gross taxes. As I said, this can go through the Hakaniemi market, it can be argued that the Sipilä Government has changed taxation so that those who earn EUR 12,000 would have the same tax as those who earn EUR 6000. That is not the case. And now, Mr Viitanen, you are in charge of the big line in the social democrats' economic policy: how many other errors are there in this supplementary budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u154	Mr President! However, I have not noticed whether Mr Heinonen may have retweeted the tweet he did not notice and whether he may have read these papers. I haven't watched that on Twitter. As I said, Mr President, in the spirit of fair play, we have admitted that we have had a mistake of one word there and that has now been corrected. And, of course, if it is there in the digital version, then it will remain alive there, and it is hoped that they will follow up on what is being taken in Parliament with the corrected text. I think, Mr President, that this is a bit of a waste of time to use two replies to this one-word mistake.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u159	Mr President! Representative Viitanen’s appearance is beginning to resemble the Chinese prayer mill: when enough times something is repeated, you start to believe it yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u162	Mr President! Taxation is such a thing that it separates work. As Turunen said, by calculating car tax, tax revenue will increase. By the way, the same is true of inheritance tax now. The tax on income already taxed will be punished again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u167	Mr President! Minister Orphan here called for the respect of the Kiki agreement. In order to make it clear now, we Greens are also trying to do our best to get behind the kiky agreement, despite the fact that there are clearly also major problems, especially as regards the cuts in public holiday money. And since this problem is there, we would have hoped and expected that the government, through its own actions, would have made an important correction, especially for the taxation of low incomes, because together, both in the government and in the opposition, we are concerned about the purchasing power of people. If the purchasing power of low incomes is improved, it will most effectively be reflected in the Finnish market, and now it will not happen, but the lowest incomes will benefit the least, the highest incomes the most, and that is what we are concerned about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u168	Mr President! For several weeks now, I have had to listen to these Socialist speeches about the fact that entrepreneurship reduction is pointless and has no impact on employment. Do the Social Democrats really think that if this money, estimated at EUR 123 million, were taken away from entrepreneurs and given as tax resources to the public sector, because then there would be some better employment effects and that the public sector would somehow deal with money more productively and efficiently for society than the private sector? I believe that entrepreneurs will be happy to use this amount of tax saved to create jobs, and I believe that it will also create jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u169	Mr President! First of all, I support Mrs Vähämäki's excellent proposal on the accommodation of the homeless. I hope that the government will take action on this proposal. But as far as these shadow budgets of the opposition are concerned, I drew attention to the fact that they all systematically ignore these costs of immigration. This extra cost of almost EUR 1 billion, the additional cost of asylum tourism for us, will be passed on. To cover this kind of money, it is not enough to break Sitra’s savings pig. The Government proposes a reduction in the appropriations for removal and pick-up transport. In principle, this could be welcomed, but in practice the real reason is that the majority of those who have received a negative asylum decision complain and cannot be removed even if they want to. With the exception of the Finns, all other parties have been building such legislation. This will only help the taxpayer to pay, or our children to pay these debts. My question is: where does the left-wing opposition cover these demands for a multiple of asylum and refugee quotas? The government's statement to that effect:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u170	One more reply, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u171	Mr President! Well, here's where we're going with the steak. Our presentations, which would improve the position of entrepreneurs, are certainly more employable. I think that the fact that, for example, the VAT threshold would be raised from 10,000 to 30,000, or that a tax deduction would be given for hiring the first employee, would now help the small entrepreneur to move forward. So, President, once again, we have the famous magic word 'alternative', which should be listened to and caught on many occasions. As far as these effects on employment are concerned, I referred, among other things, to the assessment of these employment effects by the Council for the Evaluation of Legislation, I did not find them, so it is not just the idea of social democrats that these employment effects are very weak. We have often heard from joint experts that these reductions in pharmacists and others have very, very modest employment effects if they exist at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u172	At this stage of the debate, I have seen the reply requested by Mr Järvinen. Let us take it and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u173	Mr President! Entrepreneurial deduction is a welcome measure to improve the livelihood of low-income entrepreneurs in particular, but it cannot be justified by employment because it does not go into employment if the entrepreneur receives income in his own pocket. The same effect, for example, is the reduction in corporation tax, which was carried out by the previous government — I look very well in this mirror, then the Greens were involved in the government. This was also justified by the impact on employment, but the fact that corporation tax was reduced did not fulfil this objective of employment. If we want companies to employ more, then it is worth giving them that money, for example, to pay the first employee's side costs or tax relief in the event of more people being hired. Entrepreneurial deduction as such does not increase employment. On the other hand, I am in favour of it specifically as a means of improving the livelihood of a low-income entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u174	One more response, Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u175	Chairman! Sometimes I hear it said that the demos are a party of bitter people. This debate and criticism of entrepreneurship reduction may in part be a good point of view in the direction of the other, but at least I would like to be the first to bring that message from the tens of thousands of entrepreneurs who have gladly welcomed this relief. It really affects many low-income entrepreneurs, self-employed people, micro-entrepreneurs, for whom this can be a lifeline. Similarly, this change in VAT, that only then will VAT be paid when you can earn the money for the work done, is really important to them. And then, by the way, in the coming pharmaceutical law, the pharmacists will be deprived of 5% of their income — if it slightly reduces this bitterness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u176	That is why I give you the final reply, Mr Harakka, as a member of the Tax Section.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Helping low-income entrepreneurs is absolutely essential, but then it must be targeted at low-income entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, as we already know repeatedly, this entrepreneurial reduction, which is undoubtedly good for its purpose, has completely failed: according to the calculations of Parliament's information service, 60% of it will end up in the highest income categories, that is, EUR 75 million, which should be used differently. And the fact that this is a lifeline for low-income entrepreneurs cannot possibly happen, because the median entrepreneur who would be entitled to this deduction earns less than EUR 10000 a year. This 5% discount means one bus ticket a month, I'm afraid. Therefore, an increase in the VAT limit,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u178	We are moving on to the list of speakers at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u179	Mr President! This is an extremely important topic for discussion in which we can find jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. In my opinion, it has become quite clear that the medicines that the government has had to present will not work at least to create jobs. Instead of direct aid to that company, the measures which employ them, it is certainly important. That is why I am still raising the issue which I am trying to ask the Minister in my reply, to which he was unable to answer. At this time in Finland, where employment is the most difficult issue, the additional budget will reduce the EU Regional Development Fund funds by EUR 20 million from the small and medium-sized enterprises programme, because its start-up has been delayed. There was also talk here that cutting would stop when the employment rate was raised. Now we really need the tools to raise the employment rate, to create jobs. For example, it is possible, as the Social Democrats have suggested, to put EUR 5 million into a special tourism development programme. Small public money, for example through the EU fund, also generates private investment, and this is how these jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u180	Mr President! This trick job that the left is playing is the peer populism we were talking about yesterday. If the reduction in corporation tax — as the representative said there was an increase in tax revenues — is made even lower, jobs will start to come here. It is not a trick job or something that is moved from place to place of money: a bit like if two openings are dug on the lake ice and carried water from one to the other, then it is of no use to anyone. If investments are made here, such as those in Äänekoski, it will be affected by the reduction in corporation tax. Large companies are starting to invest, and they are naturally surrounded by small companies that produce. There is no need for money to be allocated. This goes naturally then. Here's the problem, which is why there's no work here. Yes, we can say to that that we are going around this hall and we are going to employ someone with it. Money does go, and it frustrates a person, but if this is the right order for this, then surely it will work. In other words, as has been said here, reducing taxes will bring jobs. It's easy to go to the corner of the market to talk about things like this — it's populism, comrade populism — and tell you that I saw the rich and so rich. It has been so much taken from the rich in world history, even killed somewhere in the world, but the reality is that chaos and famine have come to those places. There are examples. Mr President! I'll just sterilize a little bit of this from my own line of work. This government has done a lot of work for our companies and has created more jobs, but more is needed. And I believe and hope that the government will correct the wrongs of forest hunting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u181	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u189	Mr President! On this entrepreneurship reduction, which the Social Democrats want to announce as a pharmacist's deduction. This applies in particular to self-employed persons. According to the Tax Administration data, there are approximately 176,000 traders in Finland — these are business names, open companies and limited companies. Of them, 77%, i.e. more than 135,000 companies, have an annual taxable income of less than EUR 30000 and a reduction of the average income of entrepreneurs of EUR 47,000 will reduce the tax burden on the entrepreneur by around EUR 940 per year. Enterprises operating with income of more than EUR 100,000 are only about 5,000 in the form of entrepreneurial deductions. Mr President! It is indeed peer populism to claim that entrepreneurial deduction is friend capitalism. Of course, the reduction will also benefit those who deserve more, but it is an important level correction for companies of all sizes, of which the smallest have so far often acted without any incentive compared to paid employment. Second thing. Mr Harakka said that this sale of state assets was used to finance one-off key projects. I would like to remind you that, for example, in the social and health sector, these key projects are clearing up a whole new future. In the form of these key projects, good practices are sought throughout Finland to spread throughout Finland in order to achieve better care, to provide more efficient services. There are several models, and these are definitely not one-off cases. New practices are being highlighted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, this entrepreneurial reduction has been discussed for quite a long time now, and there are people on the list who have asked to speak for this debate almost 2 hours ago. That is why I will no longer give answers to this theme. — — — — Next up, Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u191	Mr President! There is one thing we have agreed on today in this colorful debate, and that is the concern about the increase in long-term unemployment. Representatives of the government parties have also made this point here. Long-term unemployment has indeed continued to grow, and even according to the Ministry’s own press release, a new Finnish record is being made. Long-term unemployment costs society almost EUR 9 billion a year, so something should be done about it, but what does the government do? Let only long-term unemployment increase, and it is incomprehensible in this situation, it is a waste of human and financial resources. The measures proposed by the government do not put long-term unemployment under control. On the one hand, we do not create jobs by picking up the unemployed and, on the other hand, it is a fact that we have a lot of unworked work in society, organised by organisations, for example, which would also be suitable for those people who are unable to enter the open labour market temporarily or permanently, or can manage there, but, unfortunately, the government is pushing down these so-called intermediate labour markets by restricting the employment potential of associations. It is now estimated that as many as thousands and thousands of jobs are disappearing from the intermediate labour market. These intermediate markets should not be driven down, but should be developed, because we should now realise that, even if employment improves and improves, in this changing working life we will always have people who do not have access to the open labour market with current labour productivity and performance expectations, and that is why this intermediate labour market needs to be developed. They provide a new opportunity to face unemployment and important social work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u192	Mr Semi, you waited more than an hour and a half for your speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u193	Mr President! This is sometimes the way you have to wait, and some people have been waiting for me even longer, but it's probably the spirit of the game here. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen spoke of this employment and employment management. That was a very good speech. I would also like to thank the members of the government parties Heino and Savio for taking care of this long-term unemployment. Then there is the amending budget. It is good to see that these police officers are sufficient. They were positive things I looked at about it. Unfortunately, however, when you look at this amount of wage support employment, how it has changed during this government, there are currently 15 000 fewer contracts for pay subsidies, because there are not enough pay subsidies. However, our long-term unemployment has continued to grow and, in a way, it will lead to a lack of more jobs. But when we look again at these unpaid employment relationships — or not employment contracts, but work trials, internships and these — these have increased by over 10,000. Currently, some 35,000 people work without pay. They are already receiving labour market support and some extra on top of it. Someone like this system is going, and these are the ones that clean up these statistics. To this end, I would have liked to have added that we would have substantially increased the resources for wage support employment, so that as many long-term unemployed and unemployed as possible would have had a job and made a living with genuine work. We have a huge number of jobs and jobs in our municipalities and organisations, and I do not see it as a trick job, as Mr Hakkarainen said, I consider it to be the right job. I think that work is the best thing to do in maintaining working condition, maintaining professional skills and other things that are added to it. It also reduces exclusion. At this stage, a substantial increase in these pay subsidies would have been necessary in this situation of long-term unemployment. But what Mr Hakkarainen was right about is this application. It has Finnish companies, transport companies, application companies, invested several million euros in those things, and I find it embarrassing to watch good wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood for wood. They say that it is a small amount, but I also know of such an institution, which is talking about a small amount, and that is EUR 2 million. It is away from us Finnish entrepreneurs, from the entrepreneurs in search of it, and we should get someone in order to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u195	Mr President! The amending budget now before us is a continuation of the fact that we must gradually put things in order in this country and pursue the objective of improving employment. There is no other way to put this country's economy in order. Of course, I understand the situation that we always have to take care of people who are in a situation of need, but the best thing about helping them over a long time is that we can get them a job. This example, which has just been debated, is the calculation of the car tax, which has suddenly produced more money in the state treasury than the fall in the car tax itself, an example of the fact that the government must have the courage to be courageous. This is not going to help us to continue to increase employment appropriations and to pay them, because one day there will be a terrible situation for these people that, when you have not been able to earn pension cover during your working hours, the situation is even more difficult for you to retire, because that pension is even less than the earnings earned on your own working day per month. So here's the vicious circle we need to get out of. I understand the pain of the left in this matter, because for some reason they are left with this kind of complaint on top of it. I do not always understand its content, but the principle must be that society should organise the systems in order for the majority of us to be able to get to work. It is true that the bill known as Lex Lindström is a good one for these long-term unemployed to retire with dignity. It is a very wise and human act. Since then, according to the government programme, there is a procedure in preparation for people who are people who are burdened with unemployment, in which part or all of the unemployment allowance could be used for employment when, for example, they go to the free labour market for a job, as a kind of support for employment. That's a very good idea. I understand that the trade union movement is very passionate about this, because it is clearly a matter of touching their roles in a way. But whether or not it is, from the point of view of the person who is in this unemployment pipeline, such a solution, in which new means are used, is important. In Germany this has been tried successfully, precisely in accordance with the system that was created at the beginning of the 21st century. It is quite straightforward, admittedly, but it is clear. If you get a job, it will reduce the daily allowance to be paid and up to a thousand euros the State will guarantee its monthly income. It really makes sense because a person is activated to work, and yet someone from there always survives, so to speak, into a normal working life, where he is well paid and able to support himself. That must be the main objective, but we will not achieve this goal if we do not put this country's economy in order. Let us no longer believe in debt. That route must have been completed, but we cannot, of course, at the moment fail to pay pensions or dodge other obligations of the state. But in any case, we must push forward. The EUR 35 million earmarked for agricultural operating conditions in this additional budget is a good thing, because the agricultural situation is really distressing. It should be remembered that agricultural production begins with our food chain, which in itself employs almost 300,000 people. If this is where we compromise, then we will lose jobs and the queue of the unemployed will increase again. Yes, on the food side, we must be self-sufficient and precisely so that we can produce our own food needs for this nation. It is one of the most important milestones of an independent nation. The fact that the police are given additional appropriations, that the police with fixed-term contracts are allowed to continue working, is a very good thing. Finally, Mr President, this is the representative. Mrs Semi has just made an excellent reference to the situation in the wood coming from Russia. We are in an open market, we cannot catch up with our borders, and I cannot understand why the energy aid for electricity produced from wood chips, which is probably a few tens of millions of euros a year, has, however, been brought into practice in this country as if it were a working practice. It is said that it has been watered down and lobbed there through the European Commission into a legal activity within the framework of the WTO, i.e. the rules of free trade within the World Trade Organisation. Of course, everything that comes from Russia is not energy wood, so it does not go into combustion, but a large part of what comes from Russia is going to be raw material for the pulp industry. It will be further processed, but some of it will certainly go to combustion boilers, not pulp boilers, which are partly heat-making, partly electricity-making, and will receive production aid for that electricity. The same forestry companies will then, of course, receive the compensation for this emissions trading, which, as I remember it, is about EUR 30 million per year. We should get rid of this, because we have our own forests with plenty of wood, and it is the fibre-wood side that should be taken care of. Here I would like to say that it would no longer be the envy of this house to imagine that, when more energy wood is being harvested, for example, the Forest Gift Reduction Act, which is about to be discussed, would be a bill that favours a group of people. To be precise, 75% of forest owners live in these cities, where we are at present. A very small minority of them are people living in rural areas, that is to say, if this demarcation a little relieves the pain, I would be happy to do so at night to give them a very tasty, pleasant dream, so that tomorrow the opposition will be on the move again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u196	Mr President! When I listened to Mr Haraka's speech, I was unable to take the floor myself. I am a little surprised at the Social Democrats' attack on Sitra. In fact, when this attack began at the time of the negotiation of this kiky agreement and the government introduced a proposal relating to employment, which was actually from Sitra, and even justified it with this view of Sitra, the Social Democrats then announced, because this proposal was not appropriate to their political values, that Sitra could be cut off. It was in the Social Democrats' alternative budget last year, it is this year. Of course, you can ask how many times you can take the money from Sitra every year. Normally, if you take them once, they have been taken, but of course, when the Socialist alternative budget did not come into effect last year, it is understandable that you try to do so for so long that this will state can be achieved. I'd like to call for some responsibility. However, as far as people like Sitra are concerned, I consider it to be a very neutral institution, and I am sure that all Sitra's work does not correspond to the idea world of the Finns, but I consider it to be a little questionable behaviour if we say we take the money away from Sitra. Another type of revenue should be found for an alternative budget than for this type of budget, which, frankly, seems to be reprisals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u198	Mr President! Even today, Mr Viitanen inspired the increase in the VAT threshold from EUR 10000 to EUR 30000. At the beginning of last year, Finance Minister Rinne introduced a proposal to increase it from EUR 8500 at the time to EUR 10000. At the time, he felt that EUR 10,000 would be enough. We are now asking for EUR 30000. In my view, Finnish Entrepreneurs are not in favour of such an increase — perhaps it could be slightly increased. It is, of course, already a high turnover of EUR 30000, and if VAT is sold below it, then when the limit is exceeded, for example, the total amount of VAT goes by 24%, and that is a considerable competitive disadvantage. On the other hand, a lower limit for VAT could be developed, so that everyone sells at the same rate of VAT and then can apply for refund in such a way that, in practice, the VAT rate is somewhat lower for small sales than for larger sales. That is the lower limit that Rinne has now proposed to increase from EUR 22500 to EUR 30000, which was at the beginning of last year before the parliamentary elections. I believe that the limit could be raised further from the EUR 30000, for example to EUR 50000. It would not interfere with trade, everyone would sell at the same tax rate, and people from smaller sales would then receive VAT back on the application.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u200	Mr President! As far as forest chips are concerned, the wood chips that go to Russia are even driven to Central Finland, and it causes the saws of Eastern Finland, Kainuu, Northern Finland to be filled with bark, biting that goes to the yard and loses its calorific value. However, it has to be marked in such a way that it is about EUR 4 per megawatt, it is directly cubed, it can be cubed, i.e. EUR 4 per cube. If it comes to hundreds of thousands per sawmill, it is a large amount of working capital, and it does work a lot naturally. It does not even need any support schemes, i.e. direct employment. Mr President! I'll take a position on that immigration when I'm profiled in it. This amending budget also proposes more money for the costs of immigration. This time it's 38 million. There are a number of representatives in this Chamber who think that the issue of poor immigration is a good and worthwhile one. Some would even quadruple it — there is such a performance. However, in every budget and budget, more and more euros are added to immigration. When are you going to say on the left side that you're going to run out of money for asylum tourists? When is it that these tens of thousands of people no longer milk our common tax resources but support themselves and their families? Borrowing from the amending budget: "It is proposed that the budget for the removal and pick-up of the police be reduced by EUR 9 million after the need for this appropriation has been clarified. Returns have been made less than previously anticipated in 2016, as the majority of respondents to the negative decision of the Finnish Immigration Service complain. In practice, the return of those who have received a valid negative decision to their countries of origin is often slow." Mr President! I have said before that the right of appeal should be limited. It is incomprehensible that our judicial system should be burdened by people who have no right to be here and who we really know little about. We have only their words, and everyone in his mind can judge how reliable that word is. For many asylum tourists, even the real name is unknown, not to mention the date of birth. The right of appeal should be taken away from them. When a negative decision is taken, the person must either leave the country by himself or be removed from the country. It is simply wrong for the Finnish taxpayer to pay for this complaint and the social services to give money to those who have received a negative decision. Mr President! Harmful immigration is an extra cost for us, and it will never bring back the billions of euros that have been poured down on us for decades. We must give priority to our own people. If there's time and money left, then we can start chilling away from here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u201	Mr President! I just made a perfectly reasonable argument as to why cutting Sitra’s balance sheet is a more reasonable option than selling Neste’s ownership. Instead of a constructive debate, Mr Turunen made offensive guesswork, which I leave to himself. It reveals more about the speaker than the target. The representative Heikkinen quoted the notice of Finnish Entrepreneurs and its misleading figures — that is appropriate because the Finnish Entrepreneurs are responsible for the government. This further complexing of the tax structure has been the goal of Finnish Entrepreneurs for a long time. What do I mean by misleading numbers? That quoted average YEL income applies to all entrepreneurs and not to these personal entrepreneurs who are much lower incomes. As I have already said, the median income of those entitled to entrepreneurship reduction is considerably lower than EUR 10000. So, once again, 90% of professionals pay income tax because of low incomes. So this equalisation of tax types is the basis for humbugs. It's just a subsidy. And who are the 10 percent who, even in the bill, benefit the most from this failed bullock? They are professionals who perform duties in the form of a doctor or lawyer. They don't even have a real entrepreneurial risk. Finnish Entrepreneurs have never been in favour of raising the VAT threshold. They're not the sole proprietorships. On the other hand, self-employed women proposed raising the VAT limit to as much as EUR 50000. This reform, which helps genuinely low-income entrepreneurs, is also an option for the SDP. I do not label other speakers bitter, nor do I express my offensive speculations about the motives of others, but if bitterness is spoken, then bitter are the single entrepreneurs who fight for their livelihood, who are always full of warm words, but when words should be converted into euros, they will be left at the feet of the larger and more wealthy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u203	Mr President! The Government Programme has now been implemented for a year and a half. After all, the guiding principle in that government programme is the pre-eminence of savings in central government finances, not by transferring debt to municipalities, but by real savings. The previous government put much of the burden on the municipalities and had its own serious consequences. By the way, next year's budget for local government finances will be positive for years, several years, not very much, but still.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u208	Mr President! A few more comments on the issues that emerged during this debate: First of all, this fund for the centenary of Finland's independence and the demonstration by the demars that Sitra's money would be taken away from it. I don't remember exactly, but it was over 300 million anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u213	Mr President! On two points, I agree with Mr Hoskose, and the first is that I really hope that you will now have a proper programme of action in that government. I also know myself that the cost of hundreds of thousands of euros to the sawmill operator is due to the fact that these shelters will be built when this shell and other by-products do not trade. I also agree with the fact that there is no increase in employment through the use of pompous means, and it would therefore be good if we really took up the ideas we have put forward about education, for example, and that story and these proposals have been heard yesterday and today. But I asked to speak again because I did not want these speeches by the Finns on this immigration to remain the only thing that is being used here. I don't know how it is possible for someone to know who's coming here for nothing without being investigated. [Second Vice-President Arthur Satonen : I'm sorry, speaker. — I would ask that the discussions be held outside the Chamber. — You can continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u216	Mr President! On the spot and quite briefly, when Mrs Harakka here suggested that my previous speech was somehow despicable or made up of her own head. I appreciate the honest speech and I would therefore like to say honestly that it was a question of the government wanting to carry out the Sitra work sample at some point, which met with strong opposition from the direction of the demars. We all have our little boogeymans in those closets. In all honesty, Mr Hakkarainen, who is not satisfied with Yle's activities next door, has been prepared to cut the money from Yle because he is not satisfied with Yle's activities, but in fact the Finns of Finland and Kimmo Kivelä, who chair the Yle Board of Directors there, have been able to reassure the situation in that respect. We are not so serious about cutting Yle's money, but I am surprised that the Social Democrats are making a serious alternative budget and here on similar grounds are taking the money away from Sitra. This is precisely what came up in this work sample.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u217	You can reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u218	Mr President! I will continue with this reduction in entrepreneurship, even though the counter-bank partner, Mr Harakka, has already left the Chamber. I want to defend this right to self-reduction, especially when it was in the election programme in the centre, and we are very pleased that it can now be implemented. On the basis of data from the tax year 14 of the tax year, the majority of traders are small-scale enterprises of net wealth and small income, ordinary shoemakers, barbers, kiosk keepers, transport operators, plumbers and so on, and about 77% of taxable profit-producing traders actually have an annual income of less than EUR 30000, that is, no high-paid people. For passenger companies, the corresponding figure was 79 per cent and for agriculture as much as 87 per cent. Although the aim of this government reduction is to encourage the pursuit of entrepreneurial activity, I must say, Mr President, that for many farmers this is a huge deal for livelihoods and, in a way, for survival. A couple of years ago, when Russia's anti-conscriptions came into force, for example, for milk producers, the producer price fell by about 24 per cent at once, so that this 5% reduction in entrepreneurial activity is a huge deal for these farms,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u219	Mr President! Congressman Myller was talking about that development aid. Among other things, the MOT programme was that when development aid went to Gambia, the local leader had put it in his own pocket. Yes, this development aid, when it is distributed in this way... I myself have been involved in such a project once, and how could it be, where did it go? They put machines in the jungle and taught marching songs, labor songs to those people, and they did not teach them to use them. I told them it would bring bread into the mouth when we started using those things and started working and not marching and not singing. It's no use to anyone. And then, if I were to decide on those development funds, they would be put in refugee camps in Syria, Iraq and there all the systems set up, close to EUR 1 billion, then surely things will be all right. They must be targeted and not decentralized into the political systems. It's where everyone sinks, and you only get one percent. If it is properly targeted, development aid is precisely where the refugee camps are all concerned, and that is where the health system, the education system, will certainly be able to get them well with that kind of money, and then the problem will not be here. But when some of these development aid jobs have in time turned these things into polishing their own shield, that now they have been given and there they have been and there they have been given, it is inefficient work. But if you would listen to Basic Finns' Hakkara, then you would start working on this job. The problem would get out of here, and there would be a problem, and there would be no polishing of your own shield.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u220	Mr President! Here the Social Democrats spoke about development aid and asylum seekers and the relationship between these prices or sums. However, now that I have spent ten years in the Middle East doing a little work in that direction and sometimes having a little bit of human rights to lecture around the world, I think, if you think about using x-numbers of euros and how much it will benefit you, you will get a lot more on the ground than you do by dragging people here. With one day’s cost here in some vodka, you can support a family there for about a month. It's a ratio. You might want to think about where you can get the most out of that money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u221	Mr President! That is not what I was talking about, but what I was talking about, for example, is saying that asylum seekers must not have the right to come here until they are even examined, and then, on the other hand, it is said that money must be given to refugee camps there, but this is not the case because development aid is being cut. I'm just saying this. It is very good if the government in which you are involved works in another way, that is to say that the money goes to refugee camps, too, for people who are in a very bad position and who are in a situation. I also wanted to respond to the claim that the Social Democrats came up with the idea that Sitra's balance sheet should be included in these investments, because Sitra had developed this work sample. Perhaps this is where the timetable goes a bit wrong, because we had this idea, as you said, in the alternative budget for last year. The work sample was discussed last spring. Then I will say something about this entrepreneurial reduction for traders. We have talked about the fact that the benefits of this reduction do not go to small businesses, not that there are many small self-employed companies in Finland, but that the benefits of this reduction do not go to these small companies, but that the two biggest income deciles of entrepreneurs were 80 or 75 per cent of the benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u222	Mr President! That benefit will probably also go in relation to what it is about creating a company's income, and I believe that the smaller the company is, the more important it is to them to gain it. Mr President! I would like to say that I fully understood Mr Myller's criticism of development aid or what he said in this previous debate which I have not yet taken part in. It is quite right to criticise it if, at the same time, development aid is cut off and then we consider how we deal with asylum seekers' affairs here or elsewhere. And I would also like to point out that although there is certainly something to criticise in Finland's development aid and its targeting — it has been shown that it has not always gone where the Finns wanted it — all in all, the Finnish development aiders have been highly sought after partners in the international implementation of various projects. This will certainly continue to be emphasised when, although these development aids are being cut, there is also a good thing being done alongside it, that is to say, more and more people want to see how the aid reaches where it has been sought and how the euro will achieve the best possible result. And it is true that when we are able to empower the people to whom the development aid is intended to be targeted, that they are able to do their own business, to train themselves, to dominate life in general, it is the best and most sustainable development aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u223	Mr President! When the Social Democrats were in the government and the Development Minister's portfolio were carrying, then it seems that Finland's development cooperation money should have been directed to Iraq and Syria, thereby preventing the war that is there and then the flow of refugees that has arisen there. But you didn't do this. On the other hand, there are quite a few rich oil countries in which war is taking place, and development cooperation money is not going to prevent that. Our development cooperation is a little elsewhere, and it mainly does good work. But these costs of refugees, immigrants today, this only year, are more than one billion. Its rational use, as Mr Raatikainen said as a very expert, is important. And we must have, as the government has also seen it, an immigration policy that Finland is not attractive. Then we will not have immigrants here and we will not need to cut so much money, even development cooperation will be able to make a sensible contribution to the political decision to do so. In other words, I would expect consistency from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u226	Mr President! As far as development aid is concerned, when it disperses in such a way, it is of no use. The committee will be taken there to the well, that this has now been done and done well, and then it will be stated here that things have happened. But if it is done as it should, it will be beneficial, and if the billion that is put into these tourists, put into refugee camps, there will be training, medical care, and so on, it will be effective. But there is a wonderful thing about it that, as I recall, in Jordan — fix it if it is another country — there is a refugee camp where the SPR has put millions, tens of millions, euros, air conditioning, education system, medical system and everything, and there are no refugees. How do those men know how to get here? They're there in the camps, and like this, let's show them that picture. However, there is a place like this next to it, so somehow it feels... And in Bahrain, I remember — I have to fix it later — there is one of the richest places in the world, and no refugees were taken. Among other things, representatives of the religion of peace are at the same time investing money in this mosque in Helsinki. I wonder what this logic is for people there. I wonder if there's a situation where they're taking advantage of our benevolence. And we need to be able to intervene. Most likely they will.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u227	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TAVM 19/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general discussion begins. Chairman of the Committee Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u228	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a law on market surveillance of certain products. The law would be horizontal and its scope would be limited to certain product groups covered by the specific regulation. The law would replace the existing sector-specific product legislation in market surveillance. In the Government proposal, the law contains key provisions on competent authorities in the product sectors covered by the law. The Safety and Chemicals Agency would be a market surveillance authority within the meaning of the law and a Customs external border control authority. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the draft law contains provisions on the competent authorities and the cooperation procedure between them, as well as on the risk-based and planned nature of market surveillance. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy agrees with the assessment in the explanatory memorandum of the Government's proposal that the proposed standard will improve the appropriate use of public authorities' resources and the transparency of controls. The draft law contains provisions on the competent authorities and the cooperation procedure between them, as well as on the risk-based and planned nature of market surveillance. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that the proposed system is a success and that it will reduce product-specific regulation and harmonise supervisory procedures for public authorities while ensuring effective and consistent enforcement of EU product legislation. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament adopt the legislative proposal contained in the Government proposal 40/2016, subject to amendments and clarifications made by the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u229	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins. Representative, Chairman of the Committee Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u230	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a law on lift safety. At present, the regulation of lifts in the Electricity Safety Act would be separated from its own law and, in the main, the regulation at regulation level would be brought to the level of the law. The overall reform of lift safety is mainly a legislative technical reform and limited substantive changes are proposed. The proposed law is intended to implement the Directive on lifts and safety components for lifts of the European Parliament and the Council. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes in its opinion that the new legislation on lift safety would bring some changes to the procedures for carrying out inspections, to the rights of the supervisory authorities to information and to the registration of operators. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the proposed changes to be an appropriate and balanced solution between the obligations of operators, the safety of users of lifts and the liability of lift operators. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that the legislative reform does not alter the technical safety requirements for lifts or the qualifications of lift installers or inspectors. The obligations imposed on operators in the sector have been expressed more precisely, inter alia by harmonising definitions. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament adopt the bill contained in the Government proposal 23/2016 without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u231	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 5/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u232	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to provide for a law on the conformity of equipment and protection systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. The law would implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres, the ATEX Directive. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its opinion that there is little national discretion and that the proposed new regulation will clarify and harmonise the activities of the authorities and will not significantly increase the obligations of operators. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament approve the bill contained in the Government proposal 19/2016, subject to minor amendments made by the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u233	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 7/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u234	Mr President! This proposal proposes to provide for a law on the conformity of explosives. It is intended to implement the Directive on the making available on the market and supervision of explosives for civil use. The Government's proposal also proposes to amend the law on the conformity of pyrotechnic articles, the law on the safety of the handling of hazardous chemicals and explosives. At the same time, the scope of the law would be extended to industrial processing, storage and storage of celluloid. The Government's proposal also proposes a revision of the penal code on criminal offences following the proposed new law on the conformity of explosives. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has stated in its opinion that the Government's proposal is part of a national package of implementing the new EU product regulation, which harmonises and clarifies the legal framework for civil explosives and does not propose significant substantive changes to the existing legislation. The change to the current situation is primarily reflected in the clarification of the responsibilities of economic operators and in the clarification of definitions, such as for own use manufacturing. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament approves the Government proposal 20/2016 as amended from 1 to 4. a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u235	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 8/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u236	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Measuring Instruments Act. This law would implement two Directives on measuring instruments of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Directives on measuring instruments and certain scales are part of a comprehensive product regulatory reform in the European Union. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the government's proposal is largely legislative. The Government’s proposal clarifies the scope and definitions of the law, and the new provisions are expected to clarify the functioning of the supervisory authorities. The role of other actors in the supply chain will also be improved. Notwithstanding regulatory changes, previous device approvals remain in force. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the proposed amendments to be necessary and appropriate. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament adopt the legislative proposal contained in the Government proposal 30/2016 without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u237	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 21/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u238	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new law on pressure equipment. It is intended to implement the directives on pressure equipment of the European Parliament and of the Council. The directives on pressure equipment are part of a comprehensive product regulatory reform in the European Union, as could be drawn from previous speeches on this package. In addition to regulation based on directives, the law would also include national regulation of pressure equipment. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the provisions of the directive are largely technical and must be complied with without any possibility of national discretion. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs also notes that the laws of the product sectors proposed in the Government's proposal for a regulation contain, as required by the Constitution, basic provisions on legal obligations and more precise provisions are laid down by Government regulations. The Regulations would refer to the annexes to the Directives. The use of reference technology is a regulatory economic option as the technical provisions contained in the annexes do not contain any national margin and, if the annex changes, it is sufficient to update the reference to the Regulation. Among other things, the expert consultation of the Committee on Economic Affairs has shown that the regulation proposed in the government proposal does not support the development of risk-based safety systems. From a safety point of view, the provisions in force rely in some respects on inappropriate classifications of installations and physical proximity to supervision and thus restrict the use and development of automation and remote use methods for monitoring the use of boilers. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its opinion that, in any event, changes to the regulations proposed in the Government's proposal are not only necessary at regulation level, but also necessary. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament approve the bill contained in the Government proposal 117/2016, subject to amendments tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u239	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 24/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u240	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new electricity safety law. The proposed law is intended to implement the European Parliament and Council Low Voltage Directive and the European Parliament and Council Directive on Electromagnetic Compatibility. The Low Voltage Directive and the Electromagnetic Compatibility Directive are part of a comprehensive product regulatory reform in the European Union. The Government's proposal also includes requirements for the construction of electrical equipment and the maintenance, repair and inspection of electrical equipment and electrical equipment, as well as for the supervision and control of works in the electricity sector, as well as for the compensation of electrical damage and related issues. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the proposed changes will bring our national legislative framework closer to those of other Member States operating in the internal market, which can be expected to facilitate the movement of goods and services. This is mainly a matter of national implementation of EU legislation, where there is not a great deal of national discretion here either. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also stresses the technical nature of the amendments proposed in its opinion. They implement the EMC and Low Voltage Directive at national level. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes that some changes be made to the government's proposal in relation to the powers of the authorities, in particular in the area of home peace. The Committee also shares the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the need for a report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the protection and restriction of the constitution of domestic peace and the need for regulatory reform in the European Union and its Member States, to the extent to which the powers of inspection contained in EU law are at all assessed on the basis of domestic peace in the preparation of Union legislation. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament adopt the 2nd bill contained in the Government proposal No 116/2016 without amendment. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also unanimously proposes that Parliament, with the amendments proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, approve the 1st legislative proposal contained in the Government proposal No 116/2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u241	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Turuse, who has presented his seven reports. It is important that the chairman of the committee does this in an exemplary manner, as has happened now, and I would like the chairmen of all the committees to carry out their duties with the same precision. Mr. Speaker! In this last law on electrical safety, old memories arose that when Finland joined the European Union, many of our small electrical equipment of this kind weakened in quality because of the introduction of EU standards. They were lower than national regulations before accession. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Turuse whether the situation has improved in this regard and whether this new electricity safety law will improve the fact that, on the one hand, our small aircraft will be longer-lived and more consumer-friendly and, on the other hand, better for safety than they wanted to be in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u242	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi did raise an important issue specifically about the life cycle of these electrical equipment and actually observe that the duration of the electrical equipment, the life span, is shorter than in the past. But as much as the committee would have liked to have said about this, this government proposal to amend the law on electricity safety and on notified bodies for a number of product groups did not really take a position on this issue. What Mr Kankaanniemi has pointed out is his own figure, which, in my opinion, is an important issue in the name of recycling and environmental friendliness. I think it's just that electrical equipment has a certain age that it lasts, and it breaks down. On the other hand, it creates markets and, of course, consumer pressure to buy new equipment, but it is probably a bad solution for the environment. However, this bill did not really take a position on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u243	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 23/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins. Representative, Chairman of the committee, Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u244	Mr President! The Board of Directors' proposal for the amendment of the Act on Unemployment Security, i.e. the Government's proposal 113/2016, is in the process. This proposal therefore proposes to amend the Unemployment Protection Act, which is to shorten the maximum period from 500 to 400 days. For persons with less than 3 years of work history, the maximum duration would be reduced to 300 days, and then the maximum duration would remain for 500 days for those unemployed who satisfy the conditions of employment after 58 years of age. In addition, it is proposed to extend the retention period from 5 to 7 days, to reduce the increased earnings for employment-promoting services and to abolish the increase in earnings after a long career. This proposal therefore relates to the draft budget for 2017. In the same context, the committee has also addressed the Parliamentary Initiative Act 39/2015, which proposes that the maximum duration of the unemployment allowance period be reduced to 350 days. Mr President! This proposal is one of the top priorities of the Government Programme and aims to reform unemployment and social security in order to encourage the rapid reception of work, reduce periods of unemployment, reduce structural unemployment and save public resources. These proposed changes aim at saving EUR 200 million per year in earnings-related security expenditure on unemployment benefit. Savings in income security aim to avoid increases in unemployment insurance contributions and thus ensure the competitiveness of Finnish work. The committee has gone through this in consultation with experts and has also received the opinion of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. The explanatory memorandum to this proposal estimates that the proposed reduction in the maximum duration of unemployment benefit will result in a two-week reduction in unemployment periods and will increase employment by around 7500 person-years. This proposal refers to the Ministry of Finance’s report that the reduction in the maximum duration of unemployment benefit increases the likelihood of employment even before the maximum period is reached. As a result of the combined effect of the proposed changes to the reduction in the duration and the level of income security, this proposal estimates that employment will increase by around 9,000 person-years. In its opinion, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities considered that although the employment impact of the reform could be greater in the boom, it would also have a positive impact on employment in the downturn. The first effects of the change in line with the proposal will probably not be visible until 2018, when the employment situation is also projected to be somewhat better. The Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities therefore supports the rapid implementation of the reform despite the economic situation and stresses the long-term impact of the reform. The committee also dealt with the proposal in relation to other social security measures, and the report states that if this unemployed person receiving earnings-based daily allowance is not employed before the end of the daily allowance period, he will be transferred to labour market support earlier. It is therefore assumed that the use of income support will increase as a result of the reform. The extension to 7 days also increases the need to apply for income support in the early part of unemployment. The committee dealt with Parliament's initiative in this context and, since the committee accepts that the maximum duration of unemployment allowance should be reduced, this bill, which deals with the same issue, is therefore rejected. This bill was put to the vote: the motion was rejected and the statement was also put to the vote. It was decided to maintain the government's proposal. Then there are two objections. The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament approves the bill contained in the Government proposal 113/2016 without amendment and at the same time rejects the bill included in Act 39/2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u245	Mr President! The Social Democrats do not accept the government's proposal and we see that the reasons for this proposal are weak and that there is no real employment impact and development on these grounds. Mr President! According to expert judgements, the employment impact of the proposal is limited. The proposed changes could increase employment by 9000 person-years, as has been estimated, but it was not possible to provide the committee with a real basis and an explanation of this. There is therefore no clear evidence that reducing unemployment benefit will improve employment. On the other hand, there is evidence that the weakening of primary benefits will drive people into low incomes and poverty and, as a result, to income support customers. Reducing unemployment security does not create jobs, but increases low incomes. Deterioration of unemployment benefit is not the right way to affect employment in this situation. The main problem facing the labour market today is the lack of demand for labour, which has led to increased and prolonged unemployment. In this case, weakening the financial position of the unemployed or extra work is wrong measures, as unemployment is not due to the lack of willingness to work for the unemployed. Reducing unemployment benefits will lead to a deterioration in the economic situation of people and an increase in inequality. The impact of reducing the maximum duration of unemployment allowance on a person depends on the size of his or her daily allowance and the length of his or her unemployment. For example, with wage income of EUR 3000 before unemployment, reducing the earnings-related person by 100 days means a cut of EUR 4500 if the person is not employed but receives basic daily allowance. Extending the period by two days reduces the amount of unemployment benefit paid at the beginning of unemployment. The impact depends on the amount of benefit to be paid. At the basic level, the two-day benefit without child increases is EUR 65 36 cents. The increased earnings component will be reduced by EUR 65 from the salary of EUR 3000. The effects of the abolition of the increase after a long career depend not only on the amount of daily allowance but also on the length of the daily allowance. The reduction would be EUR 3000 per month for a period of 90 days, EUR 1110 per month. The surgeries are significant. They will be reflected both in domestic consumer demand and in the difficulties in the daily lives of the unemployed. At worst, cuts drive people into low incomes and long-term income support customers, which in practice makes it even more difficult to find employment. We need more effective means to support employment. We need measures to make better use of unemployment benefit for employment and training. The criteria for access to self-employed training on the basis of unemployment benefit should be made easier and unemployment benefit should be used as an automatic employment voucher. We also have models for this. The development of unemployment benefit is essential. However, development must not be done by cutting unemployment benefits or by weakening the livelihoods of the unemployed. That is why we are going to table a motion for a second reading rejecting the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u246	Mr President! The Sd Group of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities and the representatives of the Greens and Left Alliance have tabled a motion to reject this proposal in committee because the employment impact of the proposal is limited and the employment and savings objectives of the proposal are not balanced against the likely disadvantages of the changes. The government's proposal will increase people's income problems and society's inequalities will increase. The poor preparation of this bill was particularly worrying in this process. Some of the arguments put forward in the bill were outsourced to the VM memo behind the incorrect link, which in turn was based on one article behind the payment wall. I believe that this is underestimating not only Parliament but also the Members of Parliament, and this certainly should never happen in the preparation of legislation. The responsible MP checks the background to the bill, and in this bill it was made almost impossible. The draft law also lacks impact assessments and also makes it difficult to assess the proposal in relation to other ongoing changes. Mr President! The government is seeking cuts of EUR 200 million but does not take account of the overall economic consequences. Experts consulted in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities stated that cuts are likely to have negative uncompensated effects on local government finances, create new income traps and increase poverty and exclusion and dependency on income support. Thus, even in this bill, the government has not calculated the alternative costs, i.e. what these supposed savings will entail elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u247	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mrs Hatainen, has presented this report with merit, and I would also like to repeat in my own speech that this proposal is part of the main project of the Government Programme, which really aims to encourage people to take up work more quickly, to reduce periods of unemployment, to reduce structural unemployment and to save public resources. This is also intended to achieve annual savings of EUR 200 million in earnings-related security expenditure on unemployment benefit. We adopted a report on how, in this draft law, we aim to encourage people to take up work more quickly, not only in terms of the duration of unemployment security but also in terms of the level of unemployment security. As we heard in committee, and as is justified here by this government proposal, there is also evidence that measures in this direction will reduce unemployment periods, but it must also be said that in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health we discussed and also pointed out in this report that some of these expected savings will be lost by an estimated increase in income support expenditure. We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also agreed with the view expressed in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities that, in some cases, the red tape traps associated with benefits can also be a very important obstacle to the reception of work, and that is why cutting red tape traps must also be a key tool in the choice of means to increase employment. In this committee's report, too, we wanted it to be recorded in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health: 'The Committee stresses the need to support the implementation of the employment objectives of the current changes to unemployment security by investing in the development and modernisation of the employment-friendly service system and in the creation of new jobs in order to effectively prevent the increase in poverty and exclusion and the emergence of long-term unemployment. The unemployed job seeker should be able to access the services at the beginning of unemployment because, as unemployment reaches more than six months, the likelihood of employment is reduced very quickly". In the committee's report, we also note that several changes have been made to income-based benefits, as well as to basic security benefits, and it is therefore necessary to carry out an overall assessment of the impact of these changes on the livelihoods of the various population groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u248	Mr President! I would like to join in the material criticism presented here by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, because we were actually very confused in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities when we examined this government bill and actually there were no arguments in the text. They were found behind the link, the link didn't open, and after more digging, a study would have been found behind the payment wall. Of course we did, but I did it on my own, not through normal preparation or presentation, but from there the information came in a complicated way, which makes it quite difficult to assess the impact of some law, especially when it comes to these things being pushed forward in the autumn. But if we get to the point, there is a very strong perception in Finland that (a) our earnings-related unemployment benefit is somehow exceptionally high, and (b) it is also exceptionally long-term. The third view is that when earnings-related unemployment benefits are threatened to end, people will be heavily employed in the last days. But when you analyse a little more precisely what happens in this so-called employment when the days of earnings-related work begin to run out, a greater proportion of people will leave the labour market than a new job open. So a larger number of people leave the labour market altogether than find a new job for themselves, and this is the result of the VATT study or the results of analyses and data. Some people are employed back into their old jobs, and some people are actually employed through support measures, usually through pay subsidies, and now that pay subsidies have been cut very heavily and have poor access to them, it is clear that less people are employed with pay subsidies. And when the labour market does not pull, it is likely that the number of people who leave the labour market completely will increase. When the reduction of earnings-related expenditure has had an impact on employment, it has mostly been at a time of boom when jobs have been available. I am not saying that this reduction in earnings will not have any effect on people's employment, certainly because it will, but it will have a greater effect on people's poverty, and it may be that we will lose a larger number of workers than we can imagine after these solutions. Another persistent belief is that the maximum duration of our unemployment benefit is somehow particularly long. In Denmark, unemployment benefit lasts 520 days. In Norway, it lasts 520 days. In Finland it lasts 500 days and less after this performance. So here, too, the control countries with which we are used to dealing are not, as it were, on a more flexible side, as the current term is. In Sweden, the duration is 450 days, but there are special structures if there are children under the age of 18 or depending on the situation in life. Then, if we look at the employment effects of this entity, it was clear from the expert consultation that the fact that we are giving up this increase in long-term or long-term working lives has little effect on employment. The fact that the days of ownership are growing has no impact on employment at all. The only effect on employment expected to come is this reduction in the duration which the government estimates to be 9000, but which was also very different in the committee's consultation. It would therefore be worth considering that when we talk about dismantling red tape traps, this solution actually leads many people into a bigger bureaucratic trap, because after a person moves into a income support customer, he is more involved in both making housing allowance, income support and its basic daily allowance and having to deal with many hatches. But when people are covered by earnings-related unemployment benefit, they often manage with this primary form of income support, and we are saving a lot of work in public jobs, whether it be it or not. Kela or social welfare office or housing allowance decisions. Now we are increasing that public work, publicly funded work, simply to secure the livelihood of these people. If you consider, for example, the unemployed in families, then the significance of these cuts is rather dramatic, because it is then more likely to become income support customers so that those children can be provided and housing paid, and in that sense you could also think a little about what the impact of this proposal is. During the previous parliamentary term, earnings-related unemployment benefit was cut, and even then, I felt that this cut was a very wrong policy and was targeted at people with very small daily allowances. In fact, now that we have to re-cut the same amount of unemployment benefit, we also have two other proposed cuts on unemployment benefit coming up in this Chamber this autumn. Let me just say that I think that those people who have to implement these performances or even tell the unemployed in the workplace what level of safety you have at work is, depending on how long you have been at work, how old you are, what different systems are biting you this time, those answers will change quite a lot for next year, because simply no one can keep up with this madhouse any longer. This is the first show. Then we have new cutbacks under the Employment Services Act which, in certain situations, cut unemployment benefit, and we are still waiting for the cuts relating to this three-month interview mechanism. I hope the government understands to cancel them at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u249	Mr President! After the chairman of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has spoken, it is good to continue on two different points which I have been amazed at. We have, among other things, our Minister Lindström said that the unemployed are rewarded for their activity, and here is one example of the fact that, when the government cuts off the increased earnings and the increase in the percentage and does not specifically support active activity, it is really difficult to understand how these cuts, among other things, would encourage people to work. The second point, in fact, refers to what Mrs Filatov has just said: We have no overall assessment of the impact of this legislation or other legislation on improving employment or on the livelihoods and situations of the unemployed and their families, and what this also affects our economy. Just as has been said here, for example, when earnings-related daily allowance is cut and people are then transferred to unemployment allowance, housing allowance becomes, income support becomes, and then what other inhumane things in the family can arise as a result of these things, in practice, this can become even more expensive for society. That is why, when these proposals are made, they should be well prepared, we should also have an overall impact assessment of what the various legislative proposals affect in this respect, both for the individual person, for the family and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u250	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 24/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Haatainen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u251	Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has dealt with the Government's proposal for the Act on communicable diseases and some related laws, the Government's proposal 13/2016 vp. In addition, in this context, the committee dealt with Act No 16/2016 vp. We have received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on this matter, which is attached. This law proposes replacing the 1986 Law and the subsequent amendment of the Act on communicable diseases with a new Act of the same name. The purpose of this law is to prevent communicable diseases and their spread. This provides for preventive measures and services. Treatment of diseases would not be regulated, except as part of treatment for the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the disease. The prevention work would be carried out as part of the legislation governing social and health care and its organisation and implementation. The starting point would also be the fight against communicable diseases at international level and the strengthening of cooperation between the European Union. The current division of labour between the municipalities and the state authorities would remain. The municipality remains responsible for the fight against communicable diseases in its region, and hospital districts should, in turn, be responsible for supporting the municipality in the field of diagnostics and the detection of epidemics. The draft law also proposes to strengthen the role of the doctor responsible for communicable diseases in the municipality. Issues concerning the person to be decided by the municipal body responsible for communicable diseases would mainly be decided by the municipal doctor responsible for communicable diseases. At the same time, the Regional State Administrative Agency and the Joint Municipal Authority should also designate a doctor responsible for infectious diseases in the future. It would therefore be possible for this designated person to become more fully familiar with this issue of prevention. THL, the Institute for Health and Welfare, would remain the National Institute of Experts on Prevention. The government's proposal is based on the fact that infection and highly resistant microbes pose major challenges in the fight against infectious diseases. In order to combat these, obligations would be imposed on all health care units and also on social care units. The Joint Municipal Authority of the Hospital District would play a guiding role. More detailed rules would be introduced on the access of authorities to information necessary for the prevention work, and the right to establish case-by-case registers for the identification of the outbreak and the tracing of the infection is proposed to the health care district associations and the THL. Similarly, the decision to take action which is independent of the will of the people would be clarified in this way. The law would also include an obligation to prepare for an exceptional epidemic at all levels of government. The proposal also proposes to clarify the provisions on compensation for loss of earnings imposed on a person for dismissal, isolation or quarantine in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. Similarly, the Criminal Code would be amended to define more precisely the provisions of the Act on communicable diseases. This law was intended to enter into force in spring 2016. In this context, the Action Plan 16, which proposed the inclusion of varicella vaccine in the national vaccination programme, was also discussed. The committee had an extensive expert hearing and also discussed the detailed opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the basis of which proposals for amendments have also been tabled. The committee stated in its report that the need for this law is that this overall reform will clarify the legislation and this will also address the changing challenges facing the fight against communicable diseases. Now, this legislation at legislative level creates the right opportunities not only for the fight against communicable diseases in normal situations but also for the management of pandemics and other exceptional epidemics. The committee also noted that it is particularly important in the event of health disorders that the responsibilities of management and the roles and powers of the various actors are carefully regulated and everyone knows their role. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the law to be of great importance for the protection of the health of the population and supports its adoption, mainly by means of amendments resulting from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. These changes are attached to this report. There are changes, perhaps the most important of which, based on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, are amendments to Section 5, Section 8, Section 9. In accordance with the position of this Constitutional Committee and on the basis of its deliberations, Article 9, paragraph 1, was proposed to amend the first part of Article 9, in line with Article 7 of the Act on communicable diseases in force and with Article 3(1) of the Act on communicable diseases in force, and it was therefore intended to clarify the purpose of the proposal in terms of the scope of the law and the scope of the target group in force. At the same time, the obsolete term "hospital infection" is replaced by the term "care-related infection" currently used. In addition, on the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, there is an amendment to section 10 on the fight against communicable diseases in the Defence Forces and the Border Guard and in certain state institutions. As regards supervision, there is Article 12, the power to adopt a regulation is Article 13 and then, in Article 18, laboratory studies, in Article 47, the clarification of compulsory vaccinations, in Article 50 of vaccine procurements and then in Article 58, the measures relating to the widespread risk of infection, which were specified in accordance with the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, then also in Article 70, the urgent decision of the Constitutional Committee on restrictive measures, the amendment there. Article 79(2) then proposes, for the sake of clarity, to state that the provision concerns measures taken in the event of an infectious disease suspected of being of general concern. And then there was a change to section 93, entry into force. These changes, which were made on the basis of a government proposal, were decided unanimously by the committee and it was also decided that this Parliament initiative on varicella vaccine should be submitted for rejection because it has been dealt with elsewhere. In other words, the committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament will accept the Government proposal 13/2016 as amended from 2 to 8. and from 10 to 18. the draft law and Parliament, as amended, approves the Government proposal 13/2016 as included in 1 and 9. in accordance with the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the rejection of Act No 16/2016 and the submission of two proposals for statements for adoption. The sections were unanimously adopted by the committee, but there was a vote on these draft statements, and this includes one objection. The committee stated in its report that the need for this law is that this overall reform will clarify the legislation and this will also address the changing challenges facing the fight against communicable diseases. Now, this legislation at legislative level creates the right opportunities not only for the fight against communicable diseases in normal situations but also for the management of pandemics and other exceptional epidemics. The committee also noted that it is particularly important in the event of health disorders that the responsibilities of management and the roles and powers of the various actors are carefully regulated and everyone knows their role. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the law to be of great importance for the protection of the health of the population and supports its adoption, mainly by means of amendments resulting from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. These changes are attached to this report. There are changes, perhaps the most important of which, based on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, are amendments to Section 5, Section 8, Section 9. In accordance with the position of this Constitutional Committee and on the basis of its deliberations, Article 9, paragraph 1, was proposed to amend the first part of Article 9, in line with Article 7 of the Act on communicable diseases in force and with Article 3(1) of the Act on communicable diseases in force, and it was therefore intended to clarify the purpose of the proposal in terms of the scope of the law and the scope of the target group in force. At the same time, the obsolete term "hospital infection" is replaced by the term "care-related infection" currently used. In addition, on the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, there is an amendment to section 10 on the fight against communicable diseases in the Defence Forces and the Border Guard and in certain state institutions. As regards supervision, there is Article 12, the power to adopt a regulation is Article 13 and then, in Section 18, laboratory studies. Article 47 provides for mandatory vaccinations, Article 50 for vaccinations and Article 58 for measures relating to the widespread risk of infection, which was clarified in accordance with the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. Then, in Article 70, there is also an urgent decision by the Constitutional Committee on restrictive measures, a change there. Article 79(2) then proposes, for the sake of clarity, to state that the provision concerns measures taken in the event of an infectious disease suspected of being of general concern. And then there was a change to section 93, entry into force. These changes, which were made on the basis of a government proposal, were decided unanimously by the committee and it was also decided that this Parliament initiative on varicella vaccine should be rejected because it has been dealt with elsewhere. In other words, the committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament will accept the Government proposal 13/2016 as amended from 2 to 8. and from 10 to 18. the draft law and Parliament approves the amended Government proposal 13/2016 included in 1 and 9. in accordance with the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the rejection of Act No 16/2016 and the submission of two proposals for statements for adoption. The sections were unanimously adopted by the committee, but there was a vote on these draft statements, and this includes one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u252	Mr President! The reform of the Act on Diseases also has implications for internal security. The obligations of public authorities, both the state, the municipality and the province, to protect their populations from threats to internal security include preventing and combating the spread of infectious diseases. This government proposal No. 13 from these Parliaments for a new Act on communicable diseases will significantly improve the powers of the competent authorities to use all means to combat the threat of an epidemic or to limit an epidemic that has already begun. It must be possible to introduce such measures by an immediate decision of the doctor responsible for communicable diseases in the municipality or hospital district and to extend them to the entire population which is necessary for the prevention of communicable diseases, since epidemics do not distinguish people according to the right of residence. The need applies not only to communicable diseases classified as ‘general’, such as tuberculosis, but also to certain communicable diseases to be controlled, including bacterial sexually transmitted diseases. In a situation where international mobility has increased and thousands of people are present without the right of residence, epidemics of communicable diseases can spread without this authorisation. In particular, unvaccinated infants, immunodeficiency or malignancy, pregnant women and elderly people with reduced resistance are susceptible to infections and serious forms of disease. Mr President! This government proposal for an Act on communicable diseases contains very important improvements in the fight against communicable diseases. The obligation to monitor and control infections associated with hospital and institutional care as part of patient safety work will be facilitated. This government proposal and the changes it brings will enable quality comparisons of health care units and create incentives for them at all. Secondly, it will facilitate the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance and the prevention of the risk of its proliferation. The global increase in resistance to bacteria threatens Western medicine as a whole, because if antibiotics lose their effectiveness, modern surgical treatment, among other things, is no longer possible and even a small infection can be killed. The proposal will give the power to control measures and monitoring registers. Thirdly, measles is defined as a common infectious disease. Ashpox is a disease eradicated by vaccination in Finland, but vaccination coverage in some localities and communities has fallen alarmingly low. Ashpox is one of the most susceptible viral diseases with a significant risk of death and disability. There have been increasing cases last year where it would have been important to impose exposure, inter alia, on isolation. A major epidemic recently erupted in the Anthroposophic Educational Institute of the Metropolitan Area. Fourthly, this will facilitate access to the sources of information used to solve the epidemic. This government proposal provides a legal opportunity to find out the contact details of those who may have been exposed to the pathogens. Today, this activity depends on research permits that cause delays in response. The investigation into a major food or water-borne epidemic that causes serious disease, such as that caused by EHEC in Germany a few years ago, will be significantly enhanced on the basis of the powers of information conferred by the new law. Fifthly, vaccination of health care personnel to protect patients: this government proposal clarifies the responsibilities and responsibilities of the employer and employee in terms of the suitability of the various work. Sixthly, improving the coverage of vaccinations and monitoring of efficacy and adverse effects: this government proposal will allow more effective use of the register data to assess the coverage, effectiveness and benefit of vaccinations quickly and also to detect rare adverse reactions. And seventhly, to streamline the decision-making of quarantine and isolation measures in the case of diseases of general concern: this government proposal gives better powers to the local competent authorities and defines compensation for work for absenteeism. Mr President! In many respects, our current Act on communicable diseases of 86 is very outdated and no longer meets the needs of the changed operating environment. The development of the fight against communicable diseases is an important part of national overall security and the reforms I have mentioned above have been prepared for several years by all key actors and a large group of experts. Mr President! I am particularly pleased that this lengthy examination of the Act on communicable diseases was brought to this point that the chairman of our committee was able to present our report and, albeit a little late but still, we will soon be able to get this law into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u253	Mr President! The Social Democrats objected to this, but we accepted all the articles as they stand, as the chairman of the committee has just presented to us. First of all, this law has been long awaited. The wishes of the various experts were related to the fact that there were very different operating practices in the field and there was no clear understanding of how to deal with different situations in the field of this law, and the surprise was that these practices were different in different parts of Finland. That is why it is absolutely important and good that we now have this bill at this point, that we get uniform operating practices and understanding of what this overall reform of the Act on Disease Control means. But in this debate, there were also a little different approaches to the matter, and things were also a little roughed up on matters outside this Act on communicable diseases, which is why two statements were built here which, according to our interpretation, are not needed, which is why we see that these proposals for statements should not be made. In other words, the committee's report contains two proposals for the government to examine the impact of the law on access to treatment and its costs and the need to register more comprehensively treated foreigners. On the basis of expert consultations, we do not consider it likely that the Act on communicable diseases in its present form would be a particular attraction and that, on the basis of this law, such studies should be carried out in particular. That is why we do not agree with the statements made in the committee report. We believe that the resources needed for these studies should be used, for example, to develop the prevention of communicable diseases.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u254	Mr President! I agree with the previous speakers that I am very pleased that this long-suffered infectious disease law has now been brought forward. I would like to highlight one aspect of this, which is Article 47 of the proposal, of compulsory vaccination, which allows a Government regulation to provide for compulsory vaccination where comprehensive vaccination is necessary for the lives and health of the population or part of its population in order to prevent the spread of a general infectious disease which causes serious harm to the general public. This article obliges the municipality to arrange compulsory vaccination. I consider this competence to be very important for the Government, because I am concerned that vaccination coverage in certain areas of Finland has collapsed. For example, there is a situation in the region of Pietarsaari where in some age groups very important vaccines have been left out even more than half of the children. I think it is highly justified that the Government should now consider the stage at which this competence conferred on it should be exercised, since this article allows it to exercise that competence on a regional basis and makes a specific vaccine compulsory in a given area. It should be borne in mind that the unvaccinated child is not only endangering itself but is endangering all the fellows around him and we do not have vaccines that would certainly give everyone 100% protection, and this so-called herd immunity must be taken care of. I think this is such a place to think about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u255	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 13/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins. Mr Hassi, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u256	Mr President! There is a fairly simple question here. The government proposes limiting housing renovation grants to focus on issues related to the accessibility of housing, i.e. the ability of people who are even worse off and old people to live at home for as long as possible. These are good objectives in themselves. The committee welcomes the move to a so-called continuous search under the new aid system and also the transfer of grants from the municipalities to the ARA. However, there is also a problem with this proposal, which the committee has drawn attention to both in the report and then in the protest that has been made to it, of which I myself am one. At the same time, energy subsidies for dwellings and so-called health benefits will be abolished. The committee as a whole believes that a system should be, if it is not what it used to be, that a system should be developed to assist people in the most difficult situation who have suffered from mold damage and moisture damage in their home and are in a situation where they are not actually able to live at home but cannot sell the home when its value has collapsed. These are very difficult cases, and there should be a system for them. This is obviously also a little bit about playing ball between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but, overall, we should find a solution to this issue. The objection draws attention to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u257	Mr President! Just as the chairman of the committee presented it, there are two issues here. The previous allowance for repair, energy and health damage will be abolished and the remaining repair allowance will remain. That's good. It promotes living in the home of the elderly and people with disabilities, elevator construction, accessibility and so on, and we know that this is a very important issue. The problem is, in fact, that some of the grants that we have had at the moment will be eliminated, that is to say, this allowance for health and energy. This protest, which the Social Democrats and the Greens have made, makes a statement on the way out of that health benefit, and these people still have the problem of being sick but practically not where to live. Up to now, it has been a few dozen people and families who have received this aid, but it has been very important to them and also psychologically important, because when a person gets sick, there is such a difficult situation that even a small hand extension will help this recovery. In other words, this draft statement reads as follows: "The Commission requires that the government undertakes preparatory work on the immediate removal of health and energy subsidies, so that the law on renewed health and energy subsidies comes into force at the same time as the proposal under discussion."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u258	The 19th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 18/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u259	Madam President! The Board's proposal 157 on the responsibility for the training and the right to a degree in emergency services officer training leading to a university of applied sciences degree is transferred from Savonia University of Applied Sciences to the Police College of Applied Sciences as of 1 January 2017. This objective to transfer education to the Police College of Applied Sciences makes sense because in practice it means that education will be further developed, planning and financial management will be improved, and it is excellent that synergies between internal security institutions will be improved. The Police College of Applied Sciences has experts and experience that are important aspects of the planning and implementation of emergency university education. The Police College also makes it easier to develop multi-authority cooperation. It is also worth noting that the funding of the University of Emergency Services will be carried out in full from the operating expenses of the rescue services and the police will not be allocated to the training of the officers of the rescue services. It is also important that financial resources are not transferred from the training of the rescue services to the police. A person who is trained in a university of applied sciences degree is required to meet certain health and functional requirements in order to cope with studies and practical tasks and training. I believe that it is justified that it is also necessary to require honesty and reliability from those who are trained in the field of emergency university of applied sciences, which will be assessed on the basis of a safety report on the applicant. According to the law in force, the same condition applies to students of the Police College of Applied Sciences. The Police University of Applied Sciences would be entitled to make a positive selection decision subject to a safety report in accordance with the law on safety clearance prior to the start of studies. A conditional selection decision would mean that, on the basis of the elements of the safety report, the final selection decision could be negative. The proposed provision would apply to all applicants for education and training. The requirements for honesty and reliability in police training are highlighted. The reasons for the motion show that honesty means that the student has not committed any crimes. I believe that this is also a reasonable requirement for people who come into emergency services training. Honesty and reliability are assessed on the basis of safety reports. Although rescue students have a different field of responsibility than the police, it is good to extend the requirements of honesty and reliability to those studying at the University of Applied Sciences in the field of rescue, who become students of the Police College of Applied Sciences as a result of the transfer of responsibility for education. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u260	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u261	Mr President! The actual steak of this bill is included in the amendment of section 20 of the Animal Welfare Act and in the section that should be included: "If, according to the available knowledge, it is not possible to organise animal welfare conditions in a zoo or permanent animal exhibition or if, according to the available knowledge, the keeping of an animal species in a zoo or a permanent animal exhibition cannot be considered as acceptable for animal welfare purposes, the decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry may prohibit the keeping of the animal species in a zoo or permanent animal exhibition." There are two reasons for this: firstly, the fact that the only dolphinarium in Finland has ceased its activities this year when the Dolphin Dolphin Islands in Tampere transferred dolphins to Greece, which in itself raised a lot of criticism among the animal protectors, and secondly, the fact that scientific research has shown for a longer time that the detention of dolphins cannot be considered acceptable in terms of animal welfare. For dolphins, species-like behavior is active mobility in a wide area, sociality, hunting and environmental exploration by means of a kind of sonar. After all, dolphins travel very long distances in nature. The dolphin cannot carry out his natural lifestyle in the basins of dolphins and zoos. Such unnatural conditions put dolphins under stress and increase aggressive behavior. Moreover, the groups found in zoos and dolphins are selected by man, not by dolphins themselves. This information has long in itself been that, in the light of current information on animal welfare, it is not acceptable to hold dolphins in custody, and now that the only dolphin in Finland has just stopped, it would be a good opportunity to amend Finnish legislation so that the law authorises the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to ban this activity, because it is, in a sense, a natural lobby for someone to oppose this change right now, not precisely because there is no more delfinarium. There are, of course, other marine mammals which, in the light of current knowledge, are not acceptable in zoos and circus shows. As far as I know, these other marine mammals still exist in Finland somewhere, but I think that now would be the right time to make this legislative amendment, which in itself has been discussed in Parliament 20 years ago. When I was a new Member of Parliament at the beginning of the 1990s, the Green Group raised this issue, but at the time it did not lead to anything precisely because the then government did not want to step on the toes of the Tampere Dolphinarium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u262	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of Hassi and Kärnä for having taken a legislative initiative on animals, because in this Chamber there is very little talk of animal welfare or animal affairs in general. It is a pity that it is so late that there are not many people left in the Chamber, but it is good that we are still talking. In Finland there are 650,000 pet dogs, hunting dogs, cats, and other animals in humans. Then there are farm animals and then there are wild animals, and animal welfare is of interest today. As proposed in the draft law, the keeping of all animal species in zoos cannot be regarded as acceptable in terms of animal welfare. In the case of dolphins, there was a heated debate recently, and everyone will remember that. The Animal Protection Act is being reformed. The old one's over 20 years old. Finnish legislation must also be updated with this legislative reform. More than 90% of our citizens support the overall welfare and promotion of animals. The figure is much higher than it was some years ago. This bill allows a decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to prohibit the keeping of animal species in a zoo or a permanent animal exhibition where animal welfare conditions cannot be organised. I am therefore in favour of Mr Hassi's bill. It is important that the overall reform of the Animal Protection Act, which is now in concept and hopefully by the end of next year has been reformed, should succeed for all animals in making it a much better law for animals than for the previous one. An animal is not an object. An animal feels, an animal understands. It has absolute value. We must also think that we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact of what is happening outside Finland's borders, including this tropical hunt in Africa, where lions, tigers, for example, are placed in a canopy and also processed even if they are of a certain colour and then they are allowed to buy a card and go hunting this animal, which has already been cornered. There, too, wild animals are released from the pasture, and so the original species can suffer very much. There is also the shocking torture of dogs in Korea, China, in many other countries today, such as dogs can be thrown into hot water, even cats, or the living one begins to pull off the fur, hitting it so that the meat that comes from a dog or a cat is powerful — that is, meat eating based on beliefs by torturing an animal. Then there's the puppy factory. It also exists in Finland, very much in Romania, Ireland, the Eastern Bloc countries, Estonia. It needs to be addressed. That is why animal welfare is so important that man often determines how the animal is doing. Man has a great responsibility, and that is a moral responsibility. - Thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u263	Madam President! It is quite clear that not all animals are suitable for the zoo, and for me this idea fell to the head at the latest when I visited the great circus in Moscow, where I saw a bear driving a motorcycle and smoking tobacco at the same time. It is good that there is no such activity in Finland, and just as Mrs Elomaa said in her speech, however, we must pay attention to what is happening outside our country's borders. This bill by the Group of the Greens and the representative, Mr Hassi, is very much to be welcomed, and then we will have the initiative I myself have taken in the debate, in which I wanted to supplement this good and well-founded initiative by the Greens. In addition to what has just been said in my own initiative, it is stated that the legislator should ensure, in addition to this, that the changes in the legislation may lead to the appropriate killing of wild animals which are unable to survive in zoos and circuses and, for example, are not transferred to a third country under similar or worse conditions. This is precisely what happened in the case of Särkänniemi: the company made a decision to stop keeping dolphins for ethical reasons, but the problem was solved by the transfer of these wildly incapable animals, which cannot be released into the environment, to similar orchard conditions. I personally cannot support a policy that assumes that out of sight is out of the mind, under no circumstances. It is, of course, a good thing that this Green initiative aims precisely to ban the keeping of marine mammals, and now it is certainly possible to do so when there are no dolphins left in the Kalkenniemi area, and it will ensure, of course, that there will be no new farms and, for example, no billionaires in Finland to bring them to their own pleasure. But since this initiative does not take a position on what will then be done to these prohibited animals, I should like to ask Mrs Hassi a question: What's your point of view? Are you prepared to solve this problem by accepting that these animals are then moved, for example, to other countries, to similar conditions, and then not properly dealt with at home?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u264	Mr President! With regard to this legislative initiative, we have considered the matter in such a way that, when more specific matters were left to be imposed by the decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, this matter, which Mr Kärnä has now taken a position on with almost the same initiative, would then also remain in preparation for the preparation of the regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, so that it would be properly prepared. As Tampere City Councillor, I myself have not supported the transfer of dolphins from Tampere to another zoo, another dolphinarium. And unfortunately, I have to correct Mr Kärnä's view in that it was not primarily because of ethical reasons for ending the Dolphinarium in Tampere, but because the Dolphinarium had become unprofitable, which in itself was due to the fact that the Dolphinarium had become less acceptable among the general public. As a result, fewer people came and it had become unprofitable. If the management of Särkänniemi Oy had acted ethically, I think it would have been years before that it would have taken steps to prepare for the situation when the dolphinarium has to be closed down — because it was clear that it will come forward one day — and, along with other European dolphins, have started to build a place for dolphins, as if they could then be used to seawater and natural conditions and then let them go free. As such, for all that Elovaara represents, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u269	Mr President! This bill is certainly very much to be welcomed. I'm on the side of animal welfare myself. But that additional initiative by Mr Kärnä, or whatever it is, is very much to be welcomed. Yes, when we start moving that animal, especially when all the way to Greece from here, that's torture. We'll have to be able to stop it then. For example, I personally have always had a dog, and the situation when it has to stop is not nice, but it is the best for the animal. It's not like that kind of cargo is from anywhere. That Mr. Kärnä has done a good job on that bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u270	Madam President! I thank Mr Hakkara for his support for this initiative, which we will then discuss, and I also thank Mr Hassi for his reply. It is certainly the case that this can also be dealt with in such a way that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is considering this through its regulation. In spite of this, however, I would like to say that the legislator bears its responsibility for the law which he has passed and also defines such a clear fundamental fundament that if, for one reason or another, these prohibited animals cannot be released into the environment, their natural environment, they must be put to an end in this case. I see that it is a responsibility and a responsible policy, and that is what we should try to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u271	Madam President! Other issues have now been raised a little bit, the reform of the Animal Protection Act, and Mrs Elomaa has raised this issue in a comprehensive way. That is exactly how it is, and this will probably come to us next year, and there will be a wide-ranging debate and consultation of experts. I would like to point out at this point that we have an extremely high level of ethics in keeping useful animals and, for the most part, in keeping pets. When we talk about the Tampere dolphins, Mr Hassi raised the point that this was not an ethical problem. This was the solution that came with unprofitableness. Perhaps there was also the fact that the decision-makers in question were not ready, dared to make a decision as to the direction in which this matter was to be taken. This was a matter of debt, a long time ago, and there came a situation like this, that then, however, out of sight, so that we could get on with it. When this bill now states that it applies to other species of animals and that it must also be a permanent acceptable condition, it is also clear that we must include in every way all the farmed animals that are at the exhibitions and be prepared to resolve this in the same way, in the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u272	Mr President! I would now like to point out, after Mr Hakanen's speech, that it has long been known to be unethical in itself, that dolphins are kept in dolphins, but unfortunately, the motives which led to the closure of the dolphin by Siksänniemi Oy were not linked to ethics but to the fact that the dolphin had become unprofitable. Of course, as a Tampere-based and Tampere-based city councilman, I would have been very pleased if the motives behind the decision of Särkänniemi had been ethical, but then I think Särkänniemi Oy would have gone a long time earlier to really prepare for the fact that these dolphins can then actually be released into the sea and then moved to another prison.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u273	The 23rd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-10-ps-112.u274	Madam President! I do not think that any further introduction is needed in the initiative. I would just like to say that it is entirely in line with the initiative taken by the Green Parliamentary Group, but it also states that it is necessary to ensure that any changes in the legislation mean that animals which are not able to survive in the wild from zoos and circuses will be properly killed and, for example, will not be transferred to a third country in the same or worse conditions as zoos and circuses. I personally hope that now that the Animal Protection Act is being reformed, in this context, when the matter comes to committee, then this initiative by the Greens and the signatories will also proceed.
