ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 6/2015 vp. The debate will be opened by Mr Heinäluoma, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u2	Mr President! Fiscal surveillance tools are new tools, a very important part of ensuring the stability of the euro area. These changes, of course, apply to all euro area countries and were made after the Greek financial crisis caused a profound shock in the Union and, in particular, in the euro countries. Much was revealed that had not been seen in previous reporting. The creation of independent control bodies is also part of this system change. In other words, for fiscal surveillance in all Member States there must be an independent agency to assess the reliability of the information provided by the government. We have this task entrusted to the National Audit Office, whose report is now at issue. The Agency has gone through the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact and its implementation, in particular the preventive part of the Pact, which aims to ensure that no difficulties are encountered, and then, if we have exceeded the indebtedness criteria given, how will they be corrected? This has been done on two occasions: first since early autumn and then in November with an additional memorandum. An important observation for the Finnish Parliament and for all of us is that the clear conclusion of the Agency is that the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact are also met in 2015 and therefore there is no reason to initiate an excessive deficit procedure. This was also discussed in the autumn, and there was concern, even an assessment that Finland was going under the supervision of the European Union. The Agency has also evaluated the Prime Minister The first budgetary plan of the Sipilä Government during the parliamentary term. This includes a net reduction of EUR 4 billion, in addition to some changes in the tax bases and then some one-off expenditure for these so-called top projects. After all, the previous government made an adjustment of almost EUR 6 billion during the parliamentary term, which included the revenue side, in addition to expenditure. And then, in this programme, the savings in expenditure are explicitly highlighted. The focus is on the whole of public finances: not only central government finances but also local government finances and employment pension funds. The Audit Committee has welcomed the involvement of local government finances and social security funds in its own consultation. At the same time, it is clear that, especially with regard to the assessment of the impact of municipal finances, we are in a situation where local self-government largely protects municipal decisions in the final analysis, and no government can explicitly intervene in them by taking the whole decision-making process of municipalities for itself. In other words, it is a question of assessing and affecting local government expenditure, but not of guaranteeing the final outcome. The committee in its own work has found that these rules are very complex and require long studies and quite a lot of time, and it is clear that a simpler system for the implementation of the rules would be cheaper for everyone. In this respect, it is worth waiting for how this system will be developed. It is worth noting that not all expenditure at present and also in the future will be counted here in the annual deficit. This is accompanied by the support packages for the euro countries that have been in difficulty with the solutions that have been adopted in the past. Their national share has not been calculated on the basis of indebtedness. Of course, the basis for this is simple: if you help a guy and you get into problems because of it, this path would be very difficult to justify in the Member States that provide support. In the same way, the Commission has announced in its communication at the end of last year that such an unusual event, which is not justified in taking account of indebtedness estimates, is the refugee crisis and its costs. In line with the medium-term objectives, Finland is expected to broadly follow the required adjustment rate last year and this year. Therefore, the Commission also considers that Finland complies with the deficit and debt criterion, but as the debt ratio grows, it is important that decisions on sustainability are taken. The Committee's own observation highlights the crucial importance of economic growth and employment for indebtedness. The old rule of thumb is that for the whole of public finances, the percentage of the employment rate forward is about EUR 1 billion as a balancing effect. In other words, when adjusting, if the basis for growth and employment fails, the adjustment rate, the number of cuts becomes unsustainable. That is why success in growth policy and employment is crucial. When statistics are provided as a basis for the assessment of indebtedness and these figures, it is worth noting that this work must be done by independent bodies, Statistics Finland in Finland. We know that Greece, in particular, failed very badly in this respect in the past years and that there has been no problem with its adaptation to the new rules. At the end of the day, Statistics Finland estimates how expenditure and revenue on deficit should be treated, and here the current issue is that some revenue from the funding package for key government projects may remain the same as: Statistics Finland does not take into account deficit-reducing income. So we ourselves are in this situation, where independence for the authorities is an important part of the operation of this system, so that different countries are treated in a uniform way. In this context, the awareness of this Parliament is also concerned about how under the circumstances of this regulatory system, when some decisions are taken outside the Finnish Parliament, it affects Parliament's budgetary powers and parliamentary control powers. The Audit Committee has decided to carry out a major research project that will go through the changes in the budgetary and supervisory powers of the Parliament over recent years and decades. It involves both our own changes in the development of the budget — the generalisation of the budget, the influence of external funds on Parliament's decision-making powers — and also the actual impact of EU decisions on the delimitation of Parliament's budgetary authority. This is an important project. In several previous reports, the Parliamentary Committee on Finance has drawn attention to the risk that the possibility of representatives elected by the Finnish people to bear all the expenditure and revenue of the Finnish State will be limited, inter alia, as a result of the evolving legislative system of the European Union. This will be completed in the course of this year, so that I assume that there will be a debate at the end of the autumn on how the decision-making of the Union, the solutions to be made there and the budgetary power of the Parliament will be related. Ladies and gentlemen, the Audit Committee has gone through this report with great care and notes that the Audit Office has carried out a careful, independent work, and the main conclusions of the committee are in line with the findings of the Audit Office, so the committee has no comment on this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u3	Madam President! This report was important and very interesting to read. I would like to start by saying that I think it is very important that, in the future, when the Audit Committee has commissioned this report on Parliament's budgetary authority, we will all be very familiar with this, because, as this report shows, there have been recent developments which have limited Parliament's budgetary powers. For example, from the point of view of the Committee on Finance, we have often talked about these issues. Of course, as the chairman of the committee said, this is one of the key points to be taken into account in this report, namely that these criteria in the Stability and Growth Pact are met and that there is no reason to go into the excessive deficit procedure. Of course, in this respect, these speeches about Finland being given custody are not now in the process of being fulfilled. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, that does not mean that we are not worried about this debt, which is what this report talks about too. And in this context, I would like to underline once again that the policy of this government is now very dangerous in that we are taking more debt this year than last year, contrary to what would happen in the SDP's alternative budget. This report also refers to the fact that it has been positive that we have had this Council of State Economic Assessment, which just issued its report a few minutes ago. The interesting thing about this report is that, when we looked at what this evaluation council has just said, the first thing we found here was the title "The employment assessment of the competitiveness package is wrong". This report gave a rather serious message about this government's economic line, the government's employment line. Employment estimates are wrong — that is, they are too optimistic. And at the same time as we are talking about how crucial it is for these EMU criteria and others to be achieved precisely in terms of employment objectives, I would like to stress that the government would take this serious message, which came from the evaluation council, a catch and now look at its own government programme in a much more employment-friendly direction. We have had a number of economic policy debates here in the autumn, where, from the opposition, we have been surprised that the government's employment policy in this year's budget is hardly visible, that is to say that it is totally lacking in measures to promote employment here and now. These measures are completely lacking in this government's budget line this year. It has been blindly believed that a coercive package would bring about more jobs next year, and that is how the whole competitiveness of this year has been frozen. We have often repeated this message, and now I hope that the government will be able to catch up at this stage at the latest, to review the government programme in a more employable direction. It is absolutely necessary if we do not want to go from ditch to ditch. But, of course, it is somewhat surprising that, although one might imagine that more rapid employment measures would be taken at this stage, what we hear from the Minister for Finance. We hear intimidation with further cuts in this situation, perhaps already in the spring debate. And each of us knows that not only is it very wrong humanly if the government goes to its little person's purse to make disastrous cuts in education, social security, employment appropriations, it is also very unwise in economic policy terms. If we go out at this point to cut, strangle people's purchasing power, I don't think we'll get away with these weak ice on which the government is already walking and the ice is scurrying, never before. That is why I would very much like to see these additional cut-off speeches forgotten now, quickly taking employment measures. If, ladies and gentlemen, you do not want the opposition to believe, believe, for example, that Vice-President Pekkar, who took a good stand on it during the Christmas season, admitted in fact that these employment measures here and now have not been sufficiently carried out and perhaps it would be worth reviewing the line and the government programme. I thought this advice was wise. He is an experienced financial expert and consort, and perhaps he should also listen to his advice here. President! Finally, when the time goes by, the SDP has its own option and this option contains a number of measures for employment here and now. I hope you will catch them, they have been done in a good way and we hope that they will also inspire the government in a more employable policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u4	There are now several requests for answers, so let us begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u5	Madam President! The SDP option was already seen last season. It was nothing. We waited for results and solutions — they did not arise during the whole parliamentary term. The starting point of the whole economic and employment policy of the Sipilä Government is precisely that we are increasing the employment rate to 72%.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u9	Mr President! Representative Viitanen: Yes, you, the SDP, have made quite a lot of that debt soup together with us. In that respect, it is pointless for you to wash your hands in terms of debt development. For this government, it will be measured in the coming years in terms of its success in terms of employment development. We know that, through what our government is doing, there will be strong investments through key projects in which new work will be built, the new world in which our experts will be able to work. There is also a competitiveness pact. However, I would like to raise one aspect of this excellent report. The responsibilities of the state, which are outside the budget economy, must definitely be better taken over and, in that respect, more transparently incorporated into the work of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u10	Mr President! Firstly, when Mr Viitanen referred to the report of the evaluation council, it is good to see what is actually said there. It is said that, in terms of savings and the balancing of public finances, the line chosen by the government is the right one. Then there are certain criticisms in the details, but this is it. There, on the other hand, is no mention of cleaning up Sitra's balance sheets, as you have suggested. It has not been detected at all by the Evaluation Council in its own proposals. And the best way to achieve this rate of 72% is to have the right means to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work, and they are listed in the Government Programme: local agreement, facilitation of fixed-term employment relationships, flexibility in readmission obligations, extension of probation periods, restoration of ownership of holiday-related illness. These are the right ways to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u11	Madam President! The truth is that if we are to achieve growth, we need jobs. If a representative here says that there are small details in this report of the Council of Evaluation, which then say that there may be something wrong, do you think it is a small detail that the Council of Evaluation clearly states that the government's employment estimates are wrong, they are considered too optimistic? I think it is far from a small detail, it is a big detail the size of a horse, the honourable delegation and the good government parties which you are now pursuing in the form of a coalition policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u16	Mr President! Well, I'm glad you're here. This employment assessment was raised by Mrs Viitanen. You must have read it, and so have I. The fact that it claims that government action, the competitiveness package, does not lead to an assessment of employment as desired is based on the idea that wages will rise more in the next round. But where did this government policy come from, and what was the idea? The idea has been to make a competitiveness package, to make a moderate wage settlement and to make companies more competitive. It's the 5+5. That report does not evaluate it at all, but it simply takes it as if it were not adopted by this competitiveness package to water it down by means of wage increases. They will not go anywhere if the competitiveness package is not only implemented on a moderate path.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u17	Mr President! I must say that, once again, the representatives of the parties here most talk about the indebtedness of central government, which in the previous government have taken the most debt. So the overwhelmingly largest debt party in Finland is a coalition that Finland has taken over 99 billion in debt during its term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u20	Madam President! Mr Lindtman has to be told about the debt speeches that the Coalition Party has not been able to find savings so small that the SDP has not objected to them. As far as Mr Viitanen's speech is concerned, in practice, the SDP in terms of employment is in favour of an increase in the employment budget. Well, there's a place for them too, I don't deny it. But, as Mr Satonen has said here, the competitiveness of Finnish work is crucial to the development of employment, and that is what the government is trying to promote. It seeks to promote it in such a way that the social partners can find a solution to these measures to improve our competitiveness. The second is structural reforms in the labour market, the most important of which is the promotion of local reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u21	Madam President! We really have alternatives to economic and employment policy, but when you look at alternative budgets here last autumn, when we have a situation where the economy is getting smaller and smaller, no one has been able to put forward any substantial alternative to public finances. These different variations are very small. As our cake decreases, there are not many options other than what the government has proposed. On the other hand, I am more concerned about this debt. For example, the director of the OECD Audit Committee, which oversees the global financial system, warned to a great extent about global indebtedness. Similarly, McKinsey's reports have warned that this system of ours could even collapse. World debt, global debt, has not stopped; since 2007 it has been growing ever since. China’s debt, for example, has quadrupled since 2007. Our debt is growing, too. Debt is not the cure for this crisis; it is the cause of this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u22	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Heinäluoma, for presenting a good report. I would have paid attention to a few things. Firstly, we are very dependent, of course, on exports and on getting them to withdraw. However, now that economic development in Europe has improved, including in the countries of southern Europe, we still seem to be stalling. This is partly related to this economic development in Russia, which is a particular risk factor for us. But I would have drawn attention to the risk of British membership of the EU and the forthcoming referendum around the corner too. Britain is the sixth largest export country to us. We have had very similar views on the development of the EU in the economic sense: free markets and sensible regulation within the framework of the EU. If we lose such a partner in the European Union, it will also have a negative impact on our economy. I believe that these too should be considered and done everything possible to ensure that the EU remains united in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u23	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissilä said that there has been no alternative to economic policy. Yes, I've had a choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u26	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives present for a very active debate. Of course, we will all be delighted in committee that the committee's report itself has not been able to find a word of reproach. However, I would like to raise an issue which, to my amazement, has not been raised here, and it concerns the deterioration of Parliament's budget. It deserves to be considered, and I hope that it will be possible to come back to it in the course of the year. Then I will take one specific example: the decision taken during the last parliamentary term that the decisions taken in this EU crisis fund in the ESM, these programmes, can be implemented and additional money can be given without it coming into this large Chamber, just in the case of a large committee. Now, of course, one can wonder whether that too is part of the reduction in Parliament's actual power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u27	Madam President! Yes, debt certainly needs to be broken, and growth alone will not fail, but it is important to strengthen competitiveness. I personally hope that, now that there is a common will again on all sides, that social agreement will be reached. That would certainly be the best thing for each of the Finns themselves. I welcome the fact that there is now a common will in this area. But I am a little surprised at the type of debate where savings are being questioned at the same time. So when interest rates are down, some still think that we could afford a lot more debt. Unfortunately, they will not remain this low indefinitely, and when the 100 billion is exceeded and 4 % interest — or, in the worst cases, 10 % — is put on it, the costs are quite different, and they must be prepared for. That's why I'm worried.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u28	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz, no one's going to stand up and tell you the truth. The fact is that the coalition has been the one in the government of all the parties who has taken the most debt. This is a fact that you will not be able to squirm out, no matter how much you wish. And you won't get away with it by blaming others no matter how much you want to. There may then be a difference of opinion, but the fact is that the Coalition Party has taken the most debt to this country. And I think... — — — — That's 99 billion. — And I think the fact is that in this Chamber the party that has taken the most debt has spoken of the debt. The Coalition Party is the leading debt party in this country. But, Mr President, there are alternatives. For example, the tax base will be extended to the financial sector and care will be taken to ensure that more is left in hand with pay and pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u29	And Mr Zyskowicz, then we are running out of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u30	Madam President! Indeed, there is no need to argue about the facts, but to discuss the interpretation of different statistics and, above all, what factors have affected me during the reign of debt. If, for example, statistics of this kind are made without taking into account at all what kind of cyclical periods have been experienced at any time, then the statistics are quite empty. But you don't have to go to history. We'll talk here and now. The Coalition Party is prepared to make the necessary savings during this parliamentary term in order to bring this debt to a halt and in the next parliamentary term to an end. What's the SDP doing? It does put on various alternative budgets, which, by robbing the Bank of Finland and so on, show that you are supposed to owe less, but practically every day in the sitting here you are opposed to savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-05-ps-3.u31	The proceedings shall be suspended in the event of a meeting of the large committee.
