ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 11/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u2	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection unanimously supports the ratification of the Paris Agreement and is very pleased with its rapid entry into force. Thank you, Minister. His work in negotiating the Paris Agreement and rapid ratification of him and the government. The Committee on the Environment considers the Paris Agreement historic: for the first time in practice all countries in the world are committing themselves to measures to mitigate climate change. Two of the world's largest entry points, China and the United States, committed themselves to an agreement in September of this year. This agreement will enable mankind to prevent the worsening of climate change from becoming catastrophic. Climate change is a threat to food production, to living conditions, especially in developing countries, and to the stability of societies. If hundreds of millions of environmental refugees were to move, it would also shock those countries that are less vulnerable to the direct effects of climate change. The agreement is coming into force in record time, less than a year after its conclusion. Even before the Paris Agreement, significant climate action has been taken not only by the countries that have been obliged to do so by the Kyoto Agreement, but also by many other countries. The Paris agreement will bring stability and certainty to the progress of climate protection. The agreement sends a strong signal to businesses and institutional investors that it is wise to break away from the business that is based on fossil fuels and emits emissions. The agreement also provides an opportunity to link emission trading systems between different countries and groups of countries and to implement other forms of cooperation that promote equal international conditions of competition and cost-effective reductions of emissions worldwide. The earth has already warmed up by 0.85 degrees since 1880. The largest warming of the northern latitudes in winter, including Finland. This causes growing concern about melting glaciers and turning permafrost into a source of climate warming emissions. Global CO2 emissions should be zero by the middle of the century. The Committee draws attention to the fact that emissions from the EU and other industrialised countries should be reduced more rapidly than has been decided so far: according to Sitra's report, around 60% by 2030 and, in fact, by the middle of the century, developed countries should already be on the side of negative emissions. The Committee on the Environment stresses that climate protection is a great opportunity for Finland, since our country is one of the leading countries in environmental technology. Environmental technology, or cleantech, is one of the fastest growing industries in the world, and the Paris Agreement boosts market growth. In order for Finland to benefit from growing markets, there is also a need for adequate funding for research and product development. According to Sitra, reducing emissions faster than the previous decisions can be cheaper than accelerating the reduction rate after 2030. The Committee notes that Finland is well placed to implement more ambitious emission reductions. A good tool for our national objectives is the climate law that came into force last year and the long-term planning system that is in line with it. The committee stresses that EU legislation as a whole should support the transition to a low-carbon future. At the moment, emissions trading is not effectively steering when the price of allowances is low. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), one third of the emissions reductions for the next few decades must be achieved through energy efficiency investments. According to the IEA, energy efficiency measures in China, for example, have already avoided emissions as much as the whole of Japan does a year. Mr President! Finally, on climate finance, at the Paris meeting, the industrialised countries confirmed the promise made earlier in Copenhagen for an annual climate financing of USD 100 billion by the end of this decade. The Committee on the Environment stresses that Finland and the EU must play their fair part here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u3	Madam President! I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for this presentation, and I would also like to thank the whole committee for this very quick reading, and when I read the committee's report, it was good, it was excellent, and I think it is very important that this was now adopted with a very broad consensus in this House. After all, this committee statement refers, among other things, to the calculations made by the International Climate Panel, to the fact that it makes more sense to intervene in advance. The longer we postpone, the bigger the problems will be. And here I want to pay special tribute to the Finns. With this report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the position of the Finns in relation to this climate change has historically changed. During the last parliamentary term, we were still discussing whether this phenomenon existed or whether it should be addressed. Now the Finns have unanimously accepted this together with the rest of Parliament. This is a place of thanks. And one can say that this is in a certain way a historic day in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u4	Mr President! Indeed, in the field of climate change in Finland’s efforts, perhaps a special thank-you should be given to Minister of the Environment Tiilikainen, who, as a leading EU negotiator there, took this project on a large scale. But it is true that climate change mitigation costs far less than the consequences of what can be really huge. And in that sense, if Finland can contribute to speeding up these actions at EU level, at global level, it is of course important. This is a national issue. Of course, the government parties are involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u5	Madam President! I agree with what has been said here. Thank you, Congressman. Lindtman for the warm words you addressed to the people of Peru. What is essential in the Paris climate agreement is that it is as comprehensive as possible, and that is something that each of us can be satisfied with. What the Finns have said all the time, regardless of their personal views on climate change as a phenomenon, is that if something is done about this, the agreement must be very comprehensive. And as the chairman of the committee has pointed out in his speech, that is what has been achieved. And that is what I am satisfied with and I believe that the Finns of Peru are also satisfied that the agreement is as comprehensive as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u6	Madam President! We are talking about a very important issue and I think it is very important that we have made progress here. We all know that the fight against climate change, as has been said here, will pay itself back many times more and the costs will be high if we do not tackle it. And by the way, it seems too often these days that this aspect has been ignored, and that is why it is important that we should also be able to discuss these issues. Of course, on a Finnish scale, when you think about it, you must always see that the environment and work are also hitting, that is, when we fight against climate change, we also have significant opportunities to promote employment and thus also sustainable growth. But, President-in-Office, having been so praised here, perhaps I, like Mr Lindtman, would also like to note that there is a broad consensus here, that everyone is involved, that the Committee on the Environment has done a good job. And the Finns have really turned their course around here, and that's good because it's going in the right direction. In other words, it is now recognised that climate change exists and combats climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u7	Madam President! Indeed, an historic agreement and a great consensus. Mr Hassi presented the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, in which we were very much in agreement. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the opinions of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Transport and Communications, which were very positive. Perhaps it is the idea that this is also a great opportunity for Finnish industry, for employment. It also poses challenges for research and product development to achieve the innovations required to reduce emissions. - Well, here's the most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u8	Madam President! It is easy to agree with these thanks for the fact that this agreement is finally being ratified for Finland in this Chamber, and it is great that this has been dealt with so quickly in the committees during this couple of days. I hope that this same consensus and the same attitude will continue to be maintained in this Chamber when we take a number of decisions, which we will then use to implement to achieve these emission targets, and on the other hand we will make various solutions in relation to tax policy or support policy, that we will encourage companies to develop more environmentally friendly and energy-efficient solutions, that we will create carrots for it. I very much hope that today's consensus will also be reflected in this Chamber in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u9	Madam President! The Paris Agreement is truly historic and significant. In the future, we will see how the countries that are committed to it will then also take practical measures. It is important that, in practice, the measures are actually implemented. The fact that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection dealt with this issue has to be said that there was a very large consensus on this issue and that the matter was quickly and rapidly moved forward. That's a good thing. This Paris agreement must also be seen as a big opportunity for Finland, especially for Finnish companies, for Finnish work and especially for Finnish exports. There may also be great opportunities here, and in the future a lot of Finnish work and cleantech can also be taken abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u10	Mr President! The agreement is historic, and it is great to be able to accept it on behalf of Finland in Parliament. The Paris Agreement, however, is just a launch shot, but it is not a set-up. There is a need for consistent measures to reduce emissions. Emissions trading needs to be corrected, transport needs to be reformed, energy efficiency in housing needs to be improved, food production needs to be changed, investment in a renewable energy system. In fact, the whole way of life and production must be adapted to the realities of climate change and the actions required to combat it. There are a lot of expectations for a future energy and climate strategy and I really hope they will be redeemed. It is great that there is a great consensus in Finland and here in Parliament on the need for climate action, and fortunately there is very little unscientific climate-denialism here. So thank Parliament for its unanimous and constructive approach to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u11	Madam President! This is indeed a great achievement, but I am concerned that it is easy to have the impression that the problems of the world's environment and nature conservation have now been resolved. That is not the case. There are currently about 7 billion of us, 10 billion of us. The pressure on natural resources is enormous. As early as August, we had exhausted the natural resources to the extent permitted for this generation. So we are facing a very big challenge. And although this is a great achievement, I would like to say now that this is not yet the solution to the problems of the world's environment and nature conservation. For Finland, this offers good opportunities to innovate and build industry on it. But what is very important is that we note that this is not yet solving the environmental and nature protection problems in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u12	Värderade Talman! It is easy to agree with those speakers who here thank us for the fact that there is now a very broad consensus that this is the right direction and an important direction, that we should go in this front line. But just as Mr Salolainen said, the work is only about to begin, and then we should not be focusing on 2030, but on the longer-term objective, which is most likely not to be the 80% reduction but rather more than 100%. In other words, Finland must be a carbon-negative country in 2050. And in that perspective, we must not get caught up in whether our goals are minus 39 or minus 37, but we must realise that those first percentages are quite easy to achieve, that they will be considerably more difficult at the end. In other words, we must now be proactive and be on the front line, because, just as Mrs Torniainen said, those countries that are moving quickly will also reap the fruits in economic terms at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u13	Mr President! It is an extremely good thing that this climate scepticism, which has been going on for years, is almost gone, and it is very good that it is absent from this Parliament. That is why, here in Parliament, we succeeded in ratifying the Paris climate agreement so quickly. We must aim to ensure that the global climate does not warm up any more, above 1.5°C. And you are well aware that this objective now requires us to set new targets: the minus 40% that the EU will have by 2030 is too low. It is also too low at the moment to stimulate new innovation and, in this way, to see the new technologies of the European Union as a key area for environmental innovation. This agreement includes amendments, five per year. These amendments must now really be based on the fact that these objectives are seen in such a way that they really are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u14	Madam President! Indeed, in five years' time, we will have all the emissions consumed if we aim to reach 1.5 degrees at this rate, and in 15 years' time we will be at 2 degrees. All emissions have been consumed, which can be consumed at this rate. So, for example, this is where carbon capture becomes quite significant if we do not change direction strongly. We want to be a model country for low carbon and clean solutions in Finland, and in order to achieve this goal we really need to look at the key elements of climate, energy, transport, industrial processes, resource use, cleantech and ict together systematically. And with regard to transport, for example, we must say that we do not only have the obligation to mix biofuels and electric cars, but both of them. So this is a really big whole, so we have to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u15	Mr President! There are so many bad developments in the world, and world politics are tense, worry and sorrow are enough, and in that sense, even for the world's atmosphere, the Paris Treaty is one of the few positive things that the peoples of the earth are experiencing and, in that sense, it also has an important role to play: it creates some optimism for the future. It has been said many times here that the timely fight against climate change will indeed be cheaper than delaying it, and this must be taken seriously. In Finland, for example, it means that now that ratification is being carried out, we must then take action and consider all the solutions from now on in the light of the fact that these objectives are being presented. And as far as Parliament is concerned, the first steps are already this autumn, when we are discussing next year's estimates of revenue and expenditure, that we are already considering those solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u16	Madam President! It is great that we are so united at national level in the adoption of this important Paris agreement. Of course, we must expect the same unity from all the countries of the world. This is a global problem and that is why the coverage that this agreement will bring will determine how we will succeed in this. We're gonna do this together. President! Just as climate change is a natural fact, so must the solutions we are making to mitigate climate change be scientifically justified. It is therefore essential that: Finland firmly adheres to this idea, the importance of natural science, its influence and its acceptance to find ways of finding solutions so that we can do this restraint. Finland has a huge potential for this: we have expertise, we have raw materials, we have know-how on this issue. We can be the world's leading countries here, and that is what we must do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u17	Mr President! I myself feel the same way as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry who has just spoken, but although the agreement is very good, we must also think about tomorrow and, of course, we must also implement these climate objectives. At least from the point of view of the committee, it must be said that we want to keep, apparently the whole of Parliament, Finland's forestry policy in our own hands. We want to keep the goals of the bioeconomy set by the government and the parliament set in our own hands. So when they are implemented, there are these combinations of letters, LULUCF, land use, land use change and forests, and we must make sure that the sense of proportion in theory and practice also remains so that we can continue in forestry with the line that Finland has been doing for a long time, and we do not call into question practical measures, so that the actions which, however, are of very little significance do not remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u18	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for a good report. Parliament's consensus on this issue will provide a good basis for the concrete measures that we need to take immediately now that we approve the Paris agreement on climate change as well. This means concrete practical action even in a short time period, and the first step in this direction is to bring a new energy and climate strategy to the attention of Parliament. It must already be able to make clear choices about moving towards better energy production, renewable energies, intelligent energy production, intelligent energy technologies, so we must now realise that, when we adopt this agreement, it will mean practical action tomorrow. This must be reflected in all policy areas and these measures must be initiated immediately,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u19	Madam President! It is absolutely excellent that this agreement is now adopted by the Finnish Parliament, and it is equally valuable to the agreement that it is comprehensive and, above all, it involves all the major industrialised countries and also these countries, whose economies are growing with noise and whose energy production is mainly based on fossil fuels, i.e. mainly coal. But this agreement is kind of like a good building drawing: everything is fine, but it now takes sense and especially from Finns to implement it. Just as Mr Leppä, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, said in his speech, on these scientific facts, we must insist on the decision-making of the European Union to be able to use our own biomass, be it from the forest or from the field or from anywhere, or from the swamp that we can make maximum use of our own biomass. If we genuinely want transport fuels, for example, to be produced from their own raw materials, that is entirely possible. This is about our will and our own will. We have technology, we have information, anything is possible. It would create new jobs and, above all, create the best opportunities for new growth for this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u20	Madam President! The climate agreement is very important for a northern and Arctic country such as Finland, because that climate change in the Arctic region is twice as fast as in some parts of the world. Otherwise, if it were 2 degrees, then in the Arctic it would be up to 4 degrees that warming. It is very important that the targets set in the Government Programme were ambitious in relation to energy and climate issues, and many of those key projects do, to the greatest extent, support the ratification of this Paris climate agreement at national level when it comes to the issue of bioeconomy and wood construction and transport. It is quite true, as has already been said many times in this Chamber, that we will be dealing with this issue during the rest of the year when the energy and climate strategy comes up. We hope there will then see those government programme records about the abandonment of coal and the halving of fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u21	Mr President! It is really great that the Finnish Parliament so unitedly wants to start fighting climate change and is involved in the Paris Agreement and with such a fast timetable it was brought here unanimously. Then we must hope that this same consensus will also be reflected in the work that is more important, that is to say, when we go about taking these measures forward and making legislation and putting this into practice. It would then be hoped that the Members will remember what has been said here today, that we will be involved, and hope that it will be shown, especially within the government. What matters here is what Finland does so that we can change our own energy production and consumption in a more sustainable direction, but also the work we do in international arenas, so that this coverage is also reflected in the fact that every country is taking action. And we are also demanding that, when these interim checks are carried out, the spirit of this agreement is actually held to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u22	For the information of the representatives: There are now four requests for answers. I agree with them, but these other speeches on this list of speakers will then have to wait until 2.30 p.m. after the meeting of the large committee has ended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u23	Madam President! I agree with these thanks for the committee, and especially for our Minister Tiilikainen, we are more successful in Finland than in Durban. In Finland, forests are still a carbon sink, we can only sustain them with sustainable forest management. This would be an export product for us when we go further than this global climate problem. So we have a good knowledge base, we have expertise in forest management. To this whole, to this Paris agreement, I also see that we have good intentions. The stick and carrot should be used in suitable quantities, and one is this burden sharing, how this has come to different countries. I would see it even more balanced that those polluting countries too should be even more involved — even if their financial basis may not be sufficient, we must also strive for it at mental and other levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u24	Mr President! This is a truly historic and important decision that has been taken. I'm glad it's unanimous in this Parliament. This is a great opportunity for Finland and the Finnish industry. We have a great deal of expertise in producing clean energy and such equipment that keeps the air clean. Our expertise is global, and it is a trade. This will certainly increase exports of Finnish industry. But one thing that weighs heavily on government decisions is the previous decisions to cut our product development and research. I hope that at this point, when we join in unanimously, the government will start to turn its sled and to make additional investments in research and product development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u25	Madam President! I will continue with the theme raised by Mr Salolainen and Mr Adlercreutz on the development of the population. Climate change inevitably causes refugees. We have 60 million refugees and 2050 possibly already 250 million, especially if this development does not stop. In Africa, the population will grow by over one billion over the next few decades. It corresponds to about two hundred Finnish people. Every day — every day, from Monday to Sunday — the net increase in the global population is over 200,000, equivalent to one Tampere or Turku. Here is the big goal for the global community: once this climate issue is dealt with, the next step is a global population pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u26	Mr President! To use the phrase, "Moses is Moses and business is business." It is one thing to be a mousse of climate policy and another to make it a business. It is very important that this agreement is as comprehensive as possible. That is the starting point for Finns, and the second starting point is that of course this must also be able to do business. It is in everyone's interest that this should become a matter of economic benefit to countries and businesses as well. Consider, for example, something about Kazakhstan, the President of which was here in Parliament just a few days ago: One third of trade goes to the EU. Of course, with Kazakhstan we have great potential at cleantech. Or think of Japan, visited yesterday by a group of businessmen, by representative Skinner and myself and some Finnish business representatives. We must also be able to influence these points in this area, and I believe that in this Parliament we will find a united spirit, that it will also be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u27	This is where the matter is suspended because of the meeting of the large committee. The plenary session will also be suspended and resumed at 2.30 p.m. at the end of the large committee meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-21-ps-105.u28	We shall now resume today at 1.30 p.m. and, at the same time, the debate on item 3.
