ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 19/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u2	Mr President! In this report, the committee takes a position only on the issues raised in the report of the Board of Directors of YLE 2015 and does not take a more general position on the activities of YLE or its development in this context. The report of the Management Board has been drawn up in a high-quality manner. Broadcasting is a media actor subject to the Parliament, whose independence and reliability of information and other activities are considered important for equal communication, freedom of expression and support for democracy. This is where the point is actually summed up in those points, and more specific points can be found here at the back. The media sector is in the middle of a transformation and consumer usage changes and distribution channels become more diverse and there is a lot going on in the media field. This change must be awake and actively involved in the development of its own activities. What I want to highlight here, particularly in the view of the committee for many years, is that regional supply is important for the development of the regions and for the identity of the people. No further comments are made on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u3	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The committee report raises important issues. I personally think it is important that in the future, too, the Finnish Broadcasting Company will be able to take responsibility for the provision of programmes for minority and special groups. This importance of regional supplies has also often been raised here in Parliament. The committee also raised this issue and drew attention, among other things, to the same issue that I asked the YLE myself after the change had been announced. I think it is a little strange that regional deliveries today run under the name of cities. In my opinion, Yle South Karelia was a much more descriptive name for regional delivery and regional radio than Yle Lappeenranta or many others. And then, at the same time that the Yleisradio made this change, this does not go through all the regional radios, but still remains part of it with these old names. Personally, I would rather have applied for these names in those provinces and made such radios in the regions rather than underscored the importance of this city. In recent days, the Finnish Broadcasting Company published a large number of plans for the development and renewal of Yle in the years to come. These changes are likely to lead to reductions in radio channels, to the transition of drama production to the network, but also to changes in productions of sports and music events. But perhaps the most important thing is that Yle will transfer software and other content to the Internet from traditional channels in the future. These reforms are mainly due to a rather significant change in the media environment, and it is a good thing that the Finnish Broadcasting Company is doing these reforms, that it is not going to happen like many others, that time is being held back and then late when others have gone there. Today, many young people are looking for all the news online and watching it on tablets or phones. In fact, Mr Zyskowicz is no longer waiting for half a dozen news reports to look at them from the TV receiver, and almost everyone else has already looked at them a little earlier on their own tablet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u6	Mr President! The regional television, news and radio activities of the YLE play a major role in guaranteeing regional information and strengthening the identity of the region. I am pleased that Pirkanmaa has its own news now, but I wonder why it is Tampere radio and what the savonlinna people think about it being Mikkeli's radio.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u9	All right, and now we have the opportunity to respond, and the first response is from Mrs Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u10	Mr President! Indeed, the report on the operation of the Finnish Broadcasting Company very well illustrates that the Finnish Broadcasting Company has been doing well in this hard change in communication. Above all, because it has adapted to the new era: it performs a high-quality program and has gone into this digital age strongly, broadens the supply of Yle's programmes. That's great, Arena! As mentioned here, we had an excellent working group on the amendment of the Yle law. Fortunately, there was at least the compromise that was reached on funding. Because this freezing alone is now leading to a very great turmoil, which unfortunately cannot go through without also damaging Yle's programme production and viewer service. But I was very surprised when I noticed from the government's budget proposal that one of the proposals of the Satonen Group had not been implemented: that the YLE would be transferred outside the spending limits. I think this is a very bad thing because being outside the framework is one guarantee that Yle can act independently.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u11	Mr President! The mission of the public service company is to serve the entire population, and where the public service works well, freedom of expression is realised and the media field is diverse. The expectations and hopes for Yle are endless, not always consistent with each other, but very often contradictory. Citizens have a kind of hate-love relationship with Yle: we wait and hope for change; we say that everything was better before. At least we can say that the sports shows were better when Virén ran and Mäntyranta faded. But Yle lives in time, and the change in technology is taken into account and the change in media behaviour is taken into account and the response is made. I believe that, when we discuss these regional deliveries and these names, we can return to this subject as we did at the time of the main news broadcast.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u12	Mr President! I believe that we were very successful in this Yle Group, bearing in mind that 8 parties were coordinating views which were, in principle, different, as has been shown by public opinion. Pretty good compromises were achieved. As far as the financial position of Yle is concerned, however, I would estimate that changes in Yle are now more likely to arise from changes in this media environment than from the fact that, as a result of that Yle Group, the indexes will have to be compromised in Yle, with a joint decision, just as everyone else in this society is now having to compromise the indices. I would like to sign what actually came in all the speeches, and I would like the chairman of the Board of Directors to be able to contribute to the message that now that the regional reform is being carried out in Finland and now that for the first time the provinces have been included in the Yle mission and thus the importance of regional service have been strengthened, those radio names would also follow this coherent line, which was decided jointly by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u13	Värderade Talman! Yle förändras och lever i tiden, och krympande resurser gör att Yle hela tiden ser över sin verksamhet och anpassar verksamheten effecter de ekonomiska resurserna. Det som är viktigt är att konstatera att den hårda kärnan i public service-uppdraget består också i framtiden. Framtiden finns på webben, på Arenan, och det är viktigt att Yle också satsar på barn och unga. Jag ser det som viktigt att Yle går i braschen för det ox. Public service-uppdraget är oerhört viktigt för det svenska i Finland. Den identitetsskapande och stärkande functionen är viktig, och det mosma gäller program på samiska, romania och teckenspråk.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u14	Mr President! I would like to emphasise what has just been said that, according to Lex Jahvet, universal radio is primarily Parliament's radio and information channel. It must not go any further in the direction of the government and in the direction of the government's decisions, but Parliament must be jealous of this parliamentary control over the YLE. Over recent years, the public radio economy has been under enormous pressure for change. It is now time to calm down this activity. We cannot keep the YLE all the time in a state of turmoil like this, in which it has been in recent years, but we must now give the job some peace and assume that these lunches, which have now been given, are going on for quite a long time. After all, the Finnish public radio is indeed the national chronicle of the Finnish people,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u15	Mr President! Mr Heinonen was now very behind when he called on Yle to respond to the digital revolution. He said that young people were getting their information online and on mobile and no longer watching half a dozen newscasts on TV. But it's not the content that pops up on your cell phone and the Internet, it's someone who does it, and it's Yle, of course. That is to say, to a representative at the forefront of technology, for the record that Yle's digital living archive is already 10 years old and The arena next year. Yle has been a European pioneer in publishing content on all terminal devices. And by the way, this visionary was CEO Mikael Jungner, who said more than ten years ago that the network will be the main media of content. I'm sure that's when they used to roll their heads around in this room. Of course, from a general point of view, it is a good thing if the main problem is what is the name of the regional supply, which, according to Mr Puumala's proposal, can be decided on very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u16	Mr President! Broadcasting must continue to be a reliable and independent information intermediary under the authority of Parliament, as Mr Salolainen has already said in his own speech. It is also important for the right information and freedom of expression. As Mrs Alatalo said in her speech, I am absolutely in agreement with the fact that YLE has an important role to play today and in the future as the provider of regional television and radio activities, and it should therefore be given particular attention that it remains as such. That is also what people long for and expect from the YLE.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u17	Mr President! Broadcasting is a major player, and it is a very important matter of multi-disciplinary communication. I fully agree with Mr Salolainen's view that there is a need to calm down, to give peace of work. In this connection, I would like to thank the parliamentary working party which, under the leadership of Mr Satose, worked well together, established the situation, and certainly the history writing itself will be seen, saved Yle a lot in this difficult situation. Thank you also to the gatherers, representatives of Parliament's Yle-Group, Salolainen and Heinäluoma here, for also doing a very significant job on this vision. President! In this speech by Mr Heinäluoma, he drew attention to a very important issue, namely how it is now possible that there is no indication in the budget that Yle is being transferred outside the spending limits. This is an important question of principle, and we have discussed this a great deal here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u18	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Sato for the work he has done in the background of Mrs Yle. It's got a good result. All in all, Yle is subject to Parliament and I hope it will remain under strong parliamentary direction. In my opinion, policies can have such a role in the content of the programme that they can at least present a sports programme, if you are a supporter of sports programmes, you can say it out loud, the same music programme or a cultural programme. I don't think it's bad that that message goes that way to Yle. Regional radios and deliveries are important, and I am also one of those people who, under the leadership of President Kivelä, hope that this name issue will still be considered in Yle. What comes to a decision then, time will tell. However, I would like the Kymenlaakso Radio to return to Yle's name.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u19	Mr President! When we talk about Yle, it is really worth remembering that Yle has been under quite a lot of pressure and the need for constant change for a long time. On the other hand, however, this aspect of funding is still in place and, on the other hand, the cost of programme production is increasing. Then we have already had different demands here, which Yle should do, and the world around us is also changing, and that change Yle should be able to respond to. In these challenges Yle has done excellent work and has also been in the forefront of shaping the entire Finnish media field and showing direction in which direction to go. It is with great joy that I welcome the developments that Yle is also taking in the direction that it is increasingly gearing towards network television, is developing the activities of Arena, and that will enable Yle to continue to have a high level of reach and reach even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u20	Mr President! Yle is an institution with boots that are difficult — not to say impossible — to fill. When the Yle law was adopted, it was thought that now there was a constant fear of whether money would continue to be spent next year on good and objective journalism. Before this Yle law, Yle had to adapt its own activities and staff, and this happened a few years before this massive change in the press was also taking place. However, that is not what happened today, because of these indices, and because this new field is capable of guaranteeing the objective transmission of information by Yle and fair communication throughout the country, it is extremely important that we should now seriously discuss and raise the issue of how we could move beyond the framework for the financing of the Yle.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u21	Let me give the following answers: Heinonen, Alatalo and Heinäluoma. The sitting shall then be adjourned.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u22	Mr President! If Mr Harakka thinks that everything in Yle is well and has been developed enough, then fine. I myself spoke of the need to live in time and reform as new distribution channels become more and more widely used. In other words, it may no longer be necessary to strengthen this kind of supply, which is tied to time and place, but rather to make it more flexible for all people to have access to it. And when this session is exceptionally being followed by the smaller ones of my family today, we must give praise to Little Two: even this morning began in pleasant atmospheres with the father and the child watching Little Two. What is not done in the rest of the world is done here in the field of children and young people, and that is something I would like to thank you for in particular. I was pleased that Mr Kivelä, the chairman of the Governing Board of Yle, raised this question of name. Though a part of the left side of the hall laughed at it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u23	Mr President! It is really important that YLE is on the news online, even though the commercial media has, of course, been very critical of this. I would like to draw attention to the fact that television and the computer are, in a way, linked all the time. Yes, we still care about traditional children's programs, such as Little Two and BUU-klubben, and yes I believe that still this kind of traditional television viewing exists. It is true, of course, that it may move on to such timeless viewing in such a way as to be able to order these programs at the time when it suits itself. But it is particularly important for me to see this YLE online. Yleen Areena is an excellent national archive. All that is there remains for posterity, and I see a very high value in it. Of course, one can wonder whether the commercial side could make better use of it, but the very large national memory is there in Yle's archives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-30-ps-93.u24	Mr President! Necessary, good conversation. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Salolainen for his speech, which, like the statesmen's class, sees things in a big context of the position of the public radio over the political cycle. But then my attention was drawn to the fact that, once this work of the working group chaired by the current Vice-President, Mr Satose, has been praised and acknowledged here, a strange silence came about around this spending limits issue. The big line of that group, the important line of action, and also one important element of the compromise, was that Yle is outside the framework, and there has been a complete silence in the comments of the representatives of the government parties, that no one is saying anything about this at all. Here comes a little like this orwell-like feeling that there is one thing that is out of this, and then viewed somewhere in the stands that is not as if there is information about what is going to be done about this issue, why this important proposal of the working group has not been implemented.
