ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u2	First question, Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u3	Mr President! More and more Finns are asking where to take Finland at the moment. It's not random. The ideology of government is based on a world view in which the rich must be encouraged by new tax breaks, while the unemployed, the poor and the non-participants must be forced into activity by means of income cuts. The latest government proposal concerns a work sample, i.e. four months of free work. Is this the case that when the cashier of the store has 30 cashiers, 10 are in unpaid employment, or will it be necessary for work to continue to be free of charge for four months? So I ask Minister Lindström: what will happen to the value of work when the amount of unpaid work increases, and where will people buy their food and pay their bills during the free work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u4	Mr President! I'm glad you're asking me this. After all, this has left, this work idea, that is to say, the employment package as a part and quite misunderstood, as the honourable Member's question shows. It's not about four months. I'd rather talk about weeks than months myself. It is a new form of seeking work, an idea that will be developed together with, among other things, the labour market unions, and the model that will then be adopted this year will hopefully be achieved so that we can try it out, and then the conclusions will be drawn after the experiment as to whether it will work or not. So it's not forced labour, it's free labor. It's voluntary. It's a new form of seeking a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u6	Mr President! Unfortunately, the unemployed did not sigh for relief from this answer. In practice, this can happen if the employer does not pay without this free work experiment, and so this can happen. However, I raise concerns about the growing long-term unemployment among young people. Unemployment periods have been prolonged in a short period of time by up to five months for almost a year and a half. One third of young people under 30 have never been in actual employment, never. However, young unemployed people want to work, no matter what work they do, and nine out of ten are actively seeking work. This is explained by a recent economic survey. I ask the Minister: when Soini, the Chairman of the Finns Party, has said that the worker has earned his salary, why do you, the Minister of Labour of the Finns Party, want to teach the young generation
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u7	Mr President! I shall try not to provoke this question. You said it could happen. I would like you not to spread information that the government is driving some free labour market to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u10	Mr President! If we look at what has happened in labour policy, the share of paid labour has fallen by almost 40%. At the same time, the number of non-employment activities has increased, e.g. in rehabilitative work activities by almost 20%. And now it is happening that what used to be done on salary is moving into rehabilitation. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you intend to ensure that rehabilitation continues to be a rehabilitation and pay for work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u11	Mr President! This is precisely the problem I have been talking about many times in the last parliamentary term and I was concerned about the fact that we have a system of rehabilitative work, there is an intermediate labour market, and then there is this open labour market, and that is our problem, because those people are going around in the same circle and cannot move forward. Rehabilitative work must be carried out by people who belong there. We must always pay wages for work, pay according to collective agreements, that is quite clear, and we are not creating such a model for the cheap labour market. I understand that there are concerns about these issues and, as I said, these concerns will be taken into account when, among other things, this work idea is being taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u15	Mr President! These are the very concerns that have been expressed by the unions, and it is good that they have. We know that there may be such a possibility that there are such risks, such as chaining. Therefore, when this model is now being prepared, these are tried to build in such a way that this sort of thing is prevented. This time therefore left this model presented by Sitra. It had been used as an example that it could last four months, i.e. in the Sitra model. I have said that it may be weeks, because in that time it will be seen as essential whether the person is in a good position and is ready for that task. We'll see about that in weeks. It's perfectly clear. The shorter the time, the less the temptation to exploit that person. This is my philosophy about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u16	Mr President! It was four months, three months or four weeks, and there will be critics for your project. One observed that having a full day for those who have already proved their skills is a diabolical game. Such a course eats up both men and their souls. This is what the current Foreign Minister Soini, the Chairman of the Finns Party, said when he was still in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u17	Mr President! Congressman Lindtman, let's fix this up a little bit. Let's not force anyone to do anything. This is a volunteer. The person with his own consent goes to give that sample to the potential employer. There he can give a demonstration of whether his attitude is right and thus away, i.e. no one is forced to do so. You're talking about something like that — that's the idea now. This is a fresh idea we're working on. Of course, I myself am concerned about the competitiveness pact, as I would imagine that the whole of Parliament, the SDP, too, will probably be concerned about it. Me too. That is why I see these parties face-to-face and not through public opinion, that we are getting rid of these suspicions and that we are telling them what we are doing. This morning's meeting with the Pro-Confession was, in my opinion, constructive. They told us what their concerns were, and we told them what we think about things, face to face.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u18	Mr President! It is, of course, wonderful that the Socialist Party borrows so much Soini. Those are the best things I've ever heard you say here. However, let us go to this question ourselves. So it is an experiment, as the Minister has said many times here. I myself started my career as an intern at the Ministry of Defence by sorting mail, which then, after six months, led to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u19	Mr President! Once again: the model is still under construction, and the content of the model is probably not known until this year's side and then a decision will be taken on that temporary experiment. So, first, a model will be built if it can be built. If you show him it's not going to work, then we're not gonna start beating his head against the wall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u22	Mr President! I well understand the need for employers to test and test the attitude, suitability and otherwise suitability of employees for the job. For that, we have a very good trial period. We Greens also support the fact that the trial period on the private and public sides is the same, because there is really no smart reason why they should be different now. But the trial period has been made precisely so that we can see whether the pieces fit well into the whole puzzle that is always at stake in the labour market. As far as this voluntary service is concerned, I see as a big problem that, while it is voluntary, volunteering easily becomes a certain kind of compulsion, because when one person takes care of one’s own skills and professional dignity, there is always another more desperate person who voluntarily goes to work for free. I hope that this preparation will not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u23	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Järvinen, for a very constructive speech. So the work sample is the idea here, what we've been thinking about. It differs from the fact that those contracting parties are here a potential employer and employee who wants to go and give it a sample. It's not a "you" agency that fits anything. The fear that this will become such a necessity in the future, I can dispel. This is a sample, this is a new idea, and it is indeed a voluntary one. There is no coercion here for it to become sanctions later on. As far as this government is concerned, I have the courage to promise it, but I will not vouch for the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u24	Mr President! The concern for youth unemployment is certainly common to all of us, but in the same way that a preventative disease is the cheapest disease of all, so prevention of youth unemployment is the cheapest thing. That's why I wanted to extend this perspective a little bit to our primary school. In that way, if we get fewer and fewer young people on the path that we need looking youth work, we will be able to allocate funds in the right way. I would like to ask the Minister of Education: what kind of plans do you perhaps have, or should we consider that such rules of working life, the ability to seek work and learn what it would be like in our primary school? At the moment we have Tet episodes, but at least I have to confess that when I was 15 years old in the Tet cycle, it was quite wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u25	Mr President! The school world has changed dramatically over the last decades and years. New curricula will be introduced in basic education starting next autumn, and that will be a big change. There is also a strong emphasis on, for example, the skills of working life and subsequent attachment to the society and working life around it and their extensive capacity. This theme of youth unemployment, the theme of social exclusion among young people, is very important. That is why I personally believe that we must be able to influence the early halting of the development of exclusion at all levels, at all ages, even in early childhood education, through counselling and so on. It is important to pay attention to these matters. There are a number of projects and entities under way which we hope will facilitate this theme, such as the programme of changes in child and family policy and, in addition, the development of a youth guarantee to enable this particular early intervention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u26	Mr President! While this is how you try to hide an experiment, such a new idea and a good purpose reference, yes this is a very radical, hard, such a principled question. Veikko Lavi once sang about how the young men went to the docks this morning to wait for who was lucky, who was invited to unload the ship, but even when the lucky one got paid the day he got the job. First of all, you must not have thought about these, which is the security of a work sample of this kind, which is not an employment relationship, in the workplace and so on. And what if there is an open job and there will be many zealous volunteers seeking to give that work sample, how, in the words of Veikko Lav’s song, will that choice be made? Yes, I am in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u27	Mr President! Mr Uotila, in these discussions with the unions and even today, concerns have been raised about, among other things, this insurance cover and then, of course, occupational safety and, of course, the fact that this work idea does not fit every sector. There is, for example, a nursing home where it is not worth taking such risks. These are precisely the reasons why we have met these parties and received the feedback that will lead to the idea of moving forward. Then this second comment. Is it not the case that when more than one person applies for a job, the employer chooses the best and most suitable one?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u29	Mr President! The working line of the Coalition Party is well reflected in the fact that the Government considers that work rather than work paid in accordance with contracts and laws — whether fixed-term or non-skilled — is better than work at all. Unfortunately, this latter option is often the option for young people. That is why these different efforts by the government to promote employment, which have been concerned with the possibility of unemployment benefit being used as a start-up grant, or this training agreement which Mr Grahn-Laasonen is pursuing, or the facilitation of fixed-term employment relationships or the experiment that is now under way: they all aim to make work better than work at all. However, the key instrument is this competitiveness pact, which is at a rather difficult stage, and it aims at economic growth and hence at job creation. I ask the Prime Minister: what does it look like at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u30	Mr President! At present, the ball is for the social partners, employers' organisations and workers' organisations. My faith in the Treaty is hard, and I believe that this is the message and understanding that has been confirmed all along and that this is what is needed in Finland. I think we're gonna get to the finish line. Now we should all remain moderate and unprovoked, and every effort is being made to support this ongoing process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u31	Mr President! The rise in unemployment among young people is a matter of real concern. According to a study published yesterday, unemployment rates for young unemployed people have increased by nearly six months over the year. One of the reasons for this is that young people will have to wait at the employment office for more than six months before dealing with an expert. Six months is far too long for a young man. In addition, one employee can have up to a thousand customers in the Employment Office. How can he then help an individual who needs help? From the Employment Office, I am constantly told that they have far too few employees for the timely encounter of young people. The situation in your offices is catastrophic in many places. I would ask the Minister: what are you going to do to make this situation easier for the employment offices so that young people can receive timely guidance and support in this demanding situation of life?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u32	Mr President! This is a good question, and it must of course be admitted that these resources are tight. At the same time, these major changes are being made to, among other things, the regional government, the autonomous regions and so on, i.e. where the te-offices will be in the future and where the ely-side will be. This is why I have been in constant contact with the head of both the Bureau and the Ely side — we have had good discussions — and also with the people in the field who are doing this work. I'm meeting them and I'm hearing how they see this situation. Of course, this situation is very serious, but it is not so gloomy that something positive is not found. I personally consider this steering action on the social guarantee for young people launched during the last term of government a good example of what works, that is, the personal service they receive. I think this is good work, and it is constantly being developed because it actually works. Young people do not know where they are looking for help, and this guiding action is a good answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u33	Finally, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and the first author of the question, and then we move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u34	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä sounded very hopeful that you would be in the process of achieving a competitiveness pact, but we all know that this will hardly happen unless the government implements tax relief for the low and middle-income. You have cut very much from ordinary low-income people, especially from the women-dominated sectors of the public sector. For example, librarians and day-care workers lose thousands of euros a year because of the payments and cuts you are directing to these people. So I ask you now: are you in the process of making it easier for people in the public sector to find employment and to cope with ordinary people in the labour market by meeting with tax relief for these people on low and middle incomes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u35	Mr President! Firstly, since the beginning of this year, the tax relief of EUR 450 million has already facilitated the taxation of low and medium incomes. This is what we always want to forget. This package of social pacts includes that if this goes well to the finish line and we get sufficient coverage, then there is also the possibility of the government then using tax relief. If this goes to the finish line as planned now, then we will also be able to use it. But if that social contract fails, it will, of course, crumbling the outcome from there too. What matters now is that we are all doing everything we can to ensure that the social pact is concluded comprehensively, and then we will also be able to use the carrot that the government has set for these negotiations, and that is precisely the tax reduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u36	Mr President! Yes, this debate has shown that Finland is being taken in the wrong direction. As far as this free work is concerned, we already have a probationary period for which wages are paid. This free work may become imperative because employers may require this unpaid work trial before the probationary period, and this situation is extremely worrying. I would like to point out in general terms that the unemployed are willing to work, as I have already pointed out, and this is precisely where we should be helping these people to get to work, especially those jobs where people are paid. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: is it not time and opportunity for you to withdraw this free work proposal, or do you really want to remain in history as a minister who launched a free job in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u38	Mr President! First of all, there should be something to undo. So now we're gonna build that model in peace and quiet and then we'll see if we can cancel. If we don't, we'll try it and then we'll see if we can cancel. And then we come to the conclusion whether this was good or not. I understand this concern and, as I have said many times, these concerns will be taken into account when preparing the work sample experiment. It is not a free work experiment, it is a work sample experiment, a new form of applying for a job. Whatever shape it will be, this year will show. Then we go forward and see if it really becomes such a serious alternative to applying for a job. But you don't want to scare people with free work. That's not what we're building here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u39	Next question, Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u40	Mr President! At the recent press conference, Prime Minister Sipilä, you launched the slogan "Societal responsibility as a fundamental value". Are you now going to take hold of yourself when until now there has been no information about owner guidance in Posti, for example, at least not for employees and customers, and when the changes in ownership that are now going to be made enable us to split up Post, which you have in the past categorically denied? As a second promise, you said that in future taxes will be paid to the country where the result will be made. How can you guarantee that this will happen when the result can be measured in many ways and assessed, for example, in terms of the number of employees and the sales organisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u41	Mr President! As I listened to this recent debate, it is no wonder that Finland is not reformed. What are we looking for with this term "balances to work" and this change in corporate governance policy? Surprise, a surprise for all of you, despite the expectations of the future: 'balances for work' has not meant for me all the time that the state's ownership is put into meat and the budget, but we are looking for a genuine increase in value, and the increase in value can also be used to create a new one. As far as the activities of an individual company are concerned, for example, Posti has a fine, magnificent staff, there is a good management and the company has a lot of new opportunities because they have a connection to each of us's doorsteps. By making use of this opportunity, Posti will be able to grow and develop in the future and to direct its activities to growth areas, as this basic business, the letter distribution, will decrease by about 10% per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u42	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u43	Mr President! Mr Stubb, you have just said that this government has pursued the most generalist policy in history. Mr Stubb, you were quite right and a simple question to the Prime Minister: do you agree? — — — — Well, that's not really a question. In addition to companies such as Neste, Vapo, Kemijoki, which are already under Solidium’s full sales mandate, the sales list will include companies such as Neste, Vapo, Kemijoki. These companies are all those companies that the centre and left had a strong role to play. Now, can your government, provenly, be so summed up by the coalition politics that what Kekkonen brought, was taken by Sipilä?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u44	Mr President! Mr Mustajärvi, of course you can disengage yourself from the activities of the previous government because you were not a member of the parliamentary group during the last period, when last season the state ownership of EUR 3.3 billion was cut off from the budget. The purpose now is to use the state balance sheet, company ownership to increase the value and value increase used to create a new one. I do not believe in your fact that only Kekkonen knew what new was in favour of the foundation of the state, but I believe that this current generation could come up with something new. And a new example is that, in the early years of the economy, we have a lot of opportunities where the state can be the enabler of a new one, the enabler of new business, and at the same time we will finally be able to get the information systems in the areas of social security by doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u45	Mr President! Prime Minister, you recently made public your views on ownership policy. We need to get to know them carefully, and I'm sure we can get back to the details next Tuesday. However, I would like to say that we have prepared a Blue and White Ownership Programme, which you have probably also been able to familiarise with in advance and which emphasises that not everything can be a trade and that there is a need for state ownership and active ownership. We also need it to change the structure of the economy, but we also need it because this country does not become a subsidiary economy, because state ownership can also influence it and that we are active in companies that are involved. And there are strategic interests in Finland and the state to keep in good condition and with strong ownership certain companies related to security, security of supply, energy production and so on. In this respect, my concern about the development company associated with your proposal is now whether it is actually going to be a sales company and not a development company. This has to be right now. And finally, how do you respond to our proposal — many others —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u46	Mr Ihalainen, I regret to say that we have these deadlines. Let's try to stay in them. - And now the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u47	Mr President! What you said at the outset was quite precise and directly from the programme that has just been published. In other words, we want to strengthen the state's ownership role, but we also accept that it takes courage to change and change will not happen without giving up something. But if something is abandoned, the released capital can be used to build a new one. I've read the program you published, and I'll find some connections. For example, this parliamentary body, which ensures that this will be a long-term commitment over the parliamentary term, was also the government's objective, and that is where we built it. About what you were worried about about that development company role: The purpose of that development company is to develop the company’s operations. It doesn't mean that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u48	The Prime Minister replied almost in the same amount of time. And now I would ask that we stay about that minute, quite accurately in fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u49	Mr President! Changes to ownership relationships can be considered if this helps to support the rise of new industries and strengthen Finnish expertise. That is why I am cautiously positive about the government's proposals, perhaps excluding the drop in the ownership limit of the Post and perhaps the subsequent listing on the stock exchange. I would have asked what Mr Ihalainen was referring to about this development company. Since all of this is now quite new information from the group meeting, could you open up a little more of the significance, logic and perhaps just the same concern about the development company, which we all get up to, that this is not just about to be ready for sale?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u51	Mr President! I would like to remind you that when these limits of ownership are now being presented to Parliament for amendment, there are also two companies here whose limits of ownership are proposed to be transferred from 0 to 50. In other words, we want to send out a clear signal that we want to continue to keep the transmission networks, be they electricity transmission networks or gas transmission networks, state-owned and as a special task. As far as this development company is concerned, the companies below it will be developed and each of them will have a development plan drawn up separately. That does not necessarily mean that ownership is being sold. Developments in the ownership structure can also take place through two companies joining together, and the other can come from outside. We are now looking for a boost for this development of companies, and that is where this development company model is now a tool. It also allows capital to be released and capitalised by existing companies
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u52	Mr President! Now it seems that Finnish ownership is in good and stable hands. The ability to reform is the most important thing in this corporate governance, but of course the citizens have been concerned about many other issues in our state-owned companies — whether the result will be paid to the country where it was born. And there is also a problem with the fact that bosses sometimes seem to have a bit too much greed. Is there going to be a change in these things?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u53	In this context, I would like to say that next week, on the basis of a statement by a separate Prime Minister, we will return to this theme. We will now take two or three further speeches. Everything that will be discussed next week is probably not meant to be dealt with today. - But now, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u54	Mr President! In this context, we are also sending a strong signal that companies, both state companies and others, must shoulder social responsibility. The assumption of social responsibility is based on our understanding that the company is doing better than the society around it is doing. It also requires compliance with the principle that taxes should be paid to the country where the result is obtained and that taxes should not be minimised, for example through tax havens. With regard to remuneration, we also want to give a clear signal here that, in the event of dismissals, we want to reduce the remuneration of management by half, which is a very strong signal to the market that state companies are setting an example here that this is the wrong place to reward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u56	I will give Mr Lehde the floor. I now turn to the first questioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u57	Mr President! I think the strategy proposed by the Prime Minister is quite right, but tactically it may not be the time, because the interest rate market favours the borrower. The Finnish State is likely to continue to receive a ten-year loan at an interest rate of less than one per cent. In the long run, launching new industrial and business activities, for example: The ideas developed by Tekes could be the most productive in economic terms. But the framework: Is it an obstacle that we cannot borrow on investment? Do the Council of Europe and the rules always treat all loans as consumer credit and not take into account that investment is also property?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u58	Mr President! It is true that interest rates are now low and this tool should also be used effectively. For example: After all, in Solidium this can be used to capitalise Solidium, and this is one possibility there. Here comes one tool to add to the existing corporate base, and, very exceptionally, we will then be able to go into a new one, which will enable new business, as an example of the platform economy that I have mentioned many times, and I think that the state can also act as an enabler, and then use these other tools. For example, we have significantly increased Finnvera's mandate. Finnvera also has this kind of intermediate funding tool, and some private operators also have these tools in use through EU funding. But we have strict spending limits, and not much there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u59	Mr President! Let us look at this organisational structure that you have presented to Solidium, which means that all companies are already in full sales power, and then we shall look at this development company with a whole host of other companies. You have just said that development does not necessarily mean selling. But if you think it's sold, you're just explaining that it's a new added value. What if this investment fails? Then what is the situation? For example, under Solidium last financial year the dividend yield was close to EUR 300 million. In previous years it has been even more so. If even some of these profits are lost because of failed investment, because of new creation, what will you do to fill that hole in the treasury of the state?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u63	Next question, representative plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u64	Mr President! The government has been criticised for undermining the labour market position of women and for failing to assess the gender impact of its proposals. That is why the new equality programme of the government is very welcome. The programme contains good objectives and means that we Greens can also support. With this programme, the government commits itself, among other things, to assessing the gender impact of its own activities, including in relation to budgets. There are also welcome new openings in the programme, such as supporting the health of men and the parenting of fathers. Equality serves everyone. It's not from anyone. Unfortunately, the measures proposed in the programme are less courageous, for example, there are no changes in family leave to promote fatherhood and mother employment. My question is: why are there no structural reforms in the gender equality programme, for example, in order to promote equal distribution in the use of family leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u65	Mr President! The Government's equality programme has been built in accordance with the structure of the Government's strategic government programme. Firstly, there are the long-term objectives, the objectives of the parliamentary term and then 30 concrete proposals for action on how, during this parliamentary term, the government's own actions will promote equality between men and women and, above all, equality in this society. Well, then we come to a point that is realism: we have written down the concrete actions to which (1) the ministries have committed themselves and which (2) can be implemented within the framework of the euro resource that we have at our disposal. As far as family leave is concerned, there are opportunities for greater freedom of choice for families, for example, but, for example, a significant increase in the proportion of fathers in parental leave would mean a sum in euros that we have not therefore written it in this programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u66	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u67	Mr President! Finland is a pioneer in equality in the world, but we also have our own problems. Perhaps the most shameful of these is violence against women, which Finland has been reproached by both the UN Human Rights Council and the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. The only financial contribution of the gender equality programme is an increase of EUR 2 million in the financing of shelters. It is welcome, of course, but in recent years there have been so many places where shelters have been closed that 2 million are just first aid. Domestic violence is still a taboo in Finland, which is difficult to discuss openly. Both victims and perpetrators need help, regardless of gender. According to national victim surveys, 17 per cent of women and 16 per cent of men have experienced physical violence or threats in their relationship. I therefore ask how the government will secure the availability of 2 million shelter services for all victims of domestic violence and support services for spouses who are struggling with their violence, regardless of gender.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u68	Mr President! Finland is committed to the implementation of the so-called Istanbul agreement at our disposal, and that means in concrete terms the number of places of first residence and asylum where we are on a significant back way, it must be admitted. But the government has committed to EUR 2 million in its own spending limits, EUR 2 million every year since the Government Programme. This resource increase, which will therefore amount to EUR 8 million in the last year of the parliamentary term compared to the current level, will not reach a full number of places of refuge during this parliamentary term, but the direction is clear and correct. Secondly, it is also important to provide services to those who need them in relation to violence against their families, in order to enable them to cope and maintain their own life situation as well as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u69	Mr President! The gender equality programme seems to have forgotten one important theme: trafficking in human beings. The whole paper does not mention a word of this problem, which is constantly growing. The fight against trafficking in human beings requires decisive action. Now the government had the opportunity to demonstrate, with just one sentence, that it is concerned about trafficking in human beings. There was no such sentence. At the same time, the government is reforming the foreign law to make it more difficult to identify victims of trafficking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u70	Mr President! There are many other sentences that are missing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u73	Mr President! This question was very important and I thank the President for giving me a brief reply. The identification and recognition of the victims of trafficking in human beings is extremely important, and it is now very important for the government to do these kinds of factors and things, such as improving the situation of asylum seekers, and to develop these various programmes forward, whether they relate to integration, whether they relate to different types of processes — that we work closely with various organisations, including those who have the skills and know-how about it, but also increase that knowledge, among other things, on the social work side, that there is the courage to raise these issues and also to be aware and seen, perhaps, of the hidden things that these people are unable to talk about,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u74	Mr President! The Government Equality Programme is a collection of good intentions. But unfortunately, when the big picture is missing, everything is missing, and this is about equality in the labour market. The Finnish welfare society rests on a high level of employment, and that requires the work of both women and men, Madam Government. Now, with your permission, your measures will not contribute to the employment of women, especially young women. First of all, you've narrowed down children's day care rights, you've broken down subjective day care rights. Now you are raising the fees for day care in a way that results in many families actually having to choose whether or not to put a child in day care. I would like to ask you, Mr Government: how do you see the employment rate from a gender perspective? How do you intend to promote the employment rate of young women?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u75	Mr President! On a serious matter, perhaps the following should not be said, but I will. This Question Time started with the fact that your colleague started that Finland has a direction to take. Now you started your own question: when the big picture is missing, so it happens, like this and like that. For example, if you read this government gender equality program, a big picture has been written here. It's right here. With the resources, resources, knowledge that this government has, we are trying to promote equality between women and men in this country. Secondly, I consider it very valuable that, as part of this equality programme, the equal pay programme of social partners is a programme of very specific measures for this parliamentary term and that the social partners are committed to ensuring that equality in the labour market can be better achieved. Women's euro
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u76	Mr President! At the time of Mother’s Day, a discussion was raised about the even distribution of family leave from the government, and it is good in itself that fathers are encouraged to use family leave. However, it should be noted that compulsory quotas, for example on home care support, would mean that the freedom of choice for families would be reduced and the right and opportunity for long family leave, both for mothers and fathers themselves, would be reduced and undermined. During the last parliamentary term, a group of Christian Democrats from one minister was able to combat the intended weakening of home care support. I would now like to ensure from the government whether you promise to maintain this current good home care system, which supports the freedom of choice of families, which will allow the child to be treated in his or her own home until the age of three.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u77	Mr President! Mr Räsänen, you have experience in the ministerial era, and you know very personally that everything that happens in the ministry is not necessarily known to the Minister. But I know this. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is not preparing changes to the current home care support system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u78	Mr President! The Government's gender equality programme was very much to be expected, and there is a long list not only of major themes but also of very specific measures: violence in close relationships, equality in working life, equality in the school world and in the sports world, and to promote the health of men and boys. Since this issue of equality in working life has already been raised here, for the first time, the objective of the EUR 2500 compensation to be paid to the employer has been written in this equality programme. At what point does it come into force? Then I would have liked to ask more about the gender equality programme, which is included in that programme, which is now being launched this year, a three-year programme. What kind of concrete measures are planned for that programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u79	Mr President! Indeed, this compensation of EUR 2500 is in preparation, and we hope that, as soon as possible, we will, of course, get it from that ministry as well. The development of these family leave as a whole, of course, is of the utmost importance that we find different types of options for those that suit families as well as possible, and that they specifically increase that fairness, but also that we believe and trust that families themselves also know what is the best option for each family. That is what Minister Rehula has already pointed out, among other things, that this home care support is not becoming any new openings from the ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u80	Mr President! For me, this long-awaited equality programme of the government was a huge disappointment. The government's top project should be employment. But apparently they want to keep women at home. As we know, women use over 90% of home care support. At the same time, the government is wrecking day care. Seventy per cent of family carers are also women. These breaks in working life reduce women's salaries and pensions and make it difficult for women to find employment. The gender equality programme does not propose any legislative measures to address this problem. So I ask you, Minister for Gender Equality: will the government do something to facilitate reconciliation between work and family?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u81	Mr President! You started by saying that the equality programme was disappointing, and then you continued on the list of measures that, of course, are austerity decisions, difficult and difficult to deal with, and that there is room for improvement in making a better gender impact assessment. In this respect, the government is committed to working on its key projects in this programme, for example in the area of social and health care change, when it is put in such a position that the articles are so ready that an impact assessment can be carried out. On the other hand, with regard to the legislation that can be prepared during this parliamentary term with regard to reconciliation between work and family, the time will come when these things will also be told.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u82	Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the law on child custody and rights of access is being revised. The Government Programme says that in the event of divorces and divorces, children’s right to both mother and father is safeguarded. Minister, at what stage is this reform work, and how will the unequal situation of distant parents be improved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u83	Mr President! This is indeed in preparation at the Ministry of Justice, and the needs for reform will be assessed by summer 2016. Of course, there are issues to consider, such as this regulation on rotational housing, the regulation on child consultation. This preparation will be carried out as a working group in 2016-2017, after which it will be ready to come here, i.e. it will be in the process and will come here as promised. This is probably the schedule, 2016-2017, after which it comes to Parliament. It's on the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u84	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u85	Mr President! This is the law of my bill to amend Article 127a of the Income Tax Act, which concerns the development of a home-economic deduction. On the basis of the relevant section of the current Income Tax Act, the taxable person can deduct the costs of cleaning and care services in the household and of maintenance or basic improvements in the dwelling or leisure dwelling used. The maximum amount of this household allowance is currently EUR 2400 per year. According to the statistics of the Tax Administration describing 2014 the household allowance was used by approximately 383,000 persons and the total amount of the deductions was EUR 364 million. The average household allowance was therefore around EUR 950 per year. The share of the household allowance due to housing maintenance or renovation work has been significant during the period of validity of the entire reduction scheme. This use of the so-called renovation reduction is justified for many reasons. An important aspect supporting the use of the renovation reduction is its impact on national assets: residential buildings are the largest single item in our national wealth. While the main responsibility for maintaining housing wealth rests, of course, with the owners, tax support is in line with the overall benefit of society. Many homeowners postpone the necessary renovation work, thereby incurring a repair debt and later only increasing costs. Moreover, the renovation allowance does not significantly shift to the wages and other costs of the construction sector, since the renovation of housing is only a minor part of the sector’s activities. So the support goes where it belongs. The use of the renovation allowance is divided more evenly into different income categories. For example, cleaning services are mostly purchased by the most well-paid households, but renovations are done by external work in virtually all income categories. However, the support provided through the reduction does not go evenly according to the type of housing. Household households with owner-occupied dwellings in detached houses may fully use the household allowance. On the other hand, households owning their dwellings who live in a housing company may only use the deduction in so-called internal renovations of their dwellings. The renovation and renovation work carried out by housing companies in residential buildings is therefore excluded from the deduction. Separation seems particularly random given the possibility of using the deduction in a leisure dwelling. Support for cabin renovation is available, but not for the maintenance of your own residence. Thus, the relevant article on income tax should be amended so as to facilitate the renovation costs of the housing company by extending the aid to the housing company. This law should enter into force as soon as possible, preferably during the current calendar year. This excellent point has already been raised by Mr Pia Viitanen, who is the Minister for Housing. That was not the case at the time, however, as I described it, but now would probably be the time to bring this into the Income Tax Act with the arguments I described above.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u86	Mr President! This bill by Mrs Tuppurainen includes a strong download of justice, and this issue has been raised many times over the years also in the tax section of the Parliamentary Committee on Finance. However, it has never really progressed properly to the stage of winding-up, and it is probably also the result of the fact that this would cost quite a lot financially. This has always been explained by the formal fact that the articles of association should then be amended, that a cost is directly borne by the shareholders and not by the housing company, and that a household allowance would then be possible. I wish this initiative by Mrs Tuppurainen the best possible success in the reading of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u87	Mr President! I think that the idea put forward in the initiative that the household allowance should also extend to blocks of flats and flats in these renovation matters is very good and worthy of being promoted, Mr President. As Mrs Tuppurainen mentioned, last season I began to discuss it publicly, but then, as a substitute for this, we became the promotion of renovations through the State Housing Fund (ARA), which, in my opinion, was the right way to allocate 155 million in cyclical terms to renovations in blocks of flats, for example, in the suburbs. We know that we have a huge debt to repair our national property, and that is why this is wise and sensible, not only in the context of the economic cycle, but also in a humane way. Home and housing, a home in good condition, are important things, and that is why it is worthwhile to promote them. I know we've been talking about this for years. I know that it has often been said that this is such a difficult model, which should be created that this would be possible. I also know at the same time that the Real Estate Union, for example, has calculations of this and very clear feasible models. That is why I hope that we can now catch up and find out this opportunity and take it forward, because this time, if it were good to use it to support renovation, to close this repair debt, a huge repair debt. And especially as we are, hopefully, still talking about the development of the suburbs, this would also be very important. Of course, the points of justice would also support this. If you live in a small house, well, then you can use this household allowance, but if you live in an apartment building, in practice you cannot use the household allowance in a similar way for large renovations. That is why, for example, as a continuum to the fact that we supported last season:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u88	Mr President! Actually, I'll pick up where the previous speaker left off. It would certainly be very good, in cyclical terms, if we would then also be able to mobilise the necessary remedies in housing companies. The initiative is serious and very well drafted, and for that thank you to its signatory. The majority of Finns live in different housing companies, and this is a big and important issue in that way, affecting many citizens. Many companies, considering when we have built a significant amount of housing production, have big renovations, big basic improvements ahead. Many housing companies have very elderly people, and this could be one way of making things easier for them. There may be a large renovation in the housing company that would be necessary for the elderly person’s own wealth and national wealth, and it may even seem too frightening. The household allowance has been such a Finnish success story. It certainly has had a much greater reduction in the informal economy than any of the revenue auditors of the Tax Administration. But actually my thinking was moving in the same direction as Mr Kiviranta, that what the fiscal impact of this would be on the state economy. It would be interesting to hear what kind of price tag this key, interesting reform would have.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u89	Mr President! This bill by Mrs Tuppurainen is welcome, as the inequality between detached, flat and terraced houses is unfortunately a fact, in relation to this household allowance and the conditions for its use. Of course, in a tight economic situation, we must be careful how and how much such tax cuts, which are, however, directed towards the middle class of society and the wealthier population, are placed there. On the other hand, if it can be known that this would mobilise the necessary renovations and thus create new work and growth and bring about these necessary renovations, then on the other hand it would have positive economic effects. And, on the other hand, if the black economy could be eradicated by this, it would also be very positive. The problem is that, at the moment, apartment and terraced houses do not receive a household allowance for most renovations at all. In particular, the most necessary renovations are the basic improvements to which no household allowance can be obtained, and this, unfortunately, can cause these renovations to be unnecessarily postponed and, consequently, our national wealth to become even worse. Now would be the time to support and start the necessary renovations of apartment companies. Last year I myself took a slightly similar initiative to extend the household allowance to the energy efficiency renovations of apartment and terraced houses. It could then mobilise this high energy efficiency potential in housing companies and support the construction of such decentralised energy efficiency and energy production solutions in terraced houses and apartment companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u90	Mr President! Indeed, this bill by Mrs Tuppurainen suggests that the household allowance could also be used for the housing company's costs, for the important basic improvements and maintenance work that usually guarantee the building more healthy years and also, of course, maintain or increase the value of the dwelling. The idea of extending the household allowance in the way indicated by the honourable Member would certainly be welcome, but it also brings to mind a number of questions which have mainly come up in public contacts when the household allowance has been discussed. Firstly, there are already different forms of support for owner-occupied housing at the moment, while we are in some of our regions in desperate need of low-cost rental housing. Secondly, could this change make renovations in housing companies that have been relocated for some reason, and how much? Then, as far as this existing situation is concerned, if you consider cleaning services, for example, the household allowance is mainly used by the most well - paid households. I feel that the most low-income and middle-income households will also participate more equally in possible renovations of housing companies. Then there is another important feedback that has come from the field: if and hopefully when the reduction in household income is ready to be developed by the various governments in the future and also by this existing government, then there is also the problem of equality. We have a lot of people living alone, part of their own will, some of them not. If you live alone in a household, you can receive half of what couples can receive. All in all, the state of mind of this initiative is highly worthy of clarification, and it is also an initiative of the kind that there are certainly no opposition-government breasts in this regard, but it is in the interests of the citizens to achieve fair practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u91	Mr President! The real purpose of the household reduction is to promote employment and facilitate people's daily lives and also to curb the informal economy. As far as other buildings, terraced houses and apartment buildings are concerned, the ARA was still supporting the fitness estimates by 50 percent a few years ago. Now it has been stopped, and these estimates are hardly being made. The second point is that if we want exactly to target state aid for renovations to apartment buildings, we also have repair grants available. I think it would be a good idea to make a little more detailed analysis of what would be the most effective way of promoting a balanced approach to both home and home repairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u92	Mr President! When we have this system of home-reduction, it is justifiable and worthy of consideration, as colleagues have supported, to make it more balanced, to put the forms of living on the same line. It does not make any sense to argue that the shareholders of the housing company are on a different line from those of the owner-occupiers. Here are these very practical aspects of fairness, which also emerged in the debate: a very price-effective policy adjustment for housing companies may lead to a monthly pension for a low-income pensioner going almost entirely for the company's consideration and people feel that they have to move from their own home — or in practice even have to move from their own home. All the measures aimed at ensuring a fairer distribution of these costs of renovations are justified, and I thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The reference to what he did in the previous period as a minister in this regard. It is clear that a number of effects still need to be assessed, not least these fiscal effects, which have also emerged here. But I hope that these points of view will be taken into account in the follow-up to the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u93	Mr President! This bill by Mrs Tuppurainen has proposed an extension of the scope of the household allowance, and, as has also been pointed out in this bill, the impact of the household allowance on the maintenance of the value of housing wealth is undeniably very significant and, at the same time, it contributes to domestic employment and should also contribute to reducing the attractiveness of the use of grey labour. These are good arguments for extending the scope of the household allowance, and should be considered with an open mind, and, both in this bill and in the debate on it, a number of worthwhile development proposals have already been put forward, which is a good thing. After all, these days a household allowance may be granted to persons who, for example, carry out maintenance or basic improvement work in their own home or in the home used by their parents or grandparents or in a free-time residence, but the dwelling or free-time residence must not be used only by children or grandchildren. In other words, neither parents nor grandparents receive a household allowance for their renovations to the apartment of children or grandchildren. The household allowance can therefore be granted in the ascending generation, but not in the decreasing trend, and it could therefore be logical and worth considering that the household allowance should also be granted in the future for renovations made in children's homes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-12-ps-51.u94	Yes, in fact, Mr President, I am taking this opportunity because there is talk here of such an important subject: how we can catch up with this huge debt of repair in people's homes. I would also like to say a few words more generally about the importance of developing suburbs in this respect too. Mr Ala-Nissila rightly said in his own speech that we need to find out how we can best support this renovation. For example, we currently have a paper that has been produced by a so-called renovation team and which has a variety of measures to promote home renovations and renovations in due course. Some of these measures were put in place and put into effect last season, but there are certainly plenty of ideas that should continue to be explored and promoted. One big question, of course, is how, in addition to these various smaller issues, this state aid for basic improvement, whether through ARA or through a reduction in the household or otherwise, is to be scaled and used, for example, in this economic situation. But all in all, Mr President, I wanted to remind you once again that the comprehensive development of the suburbs, including this renovation, is very important and I hope that it will be put on the agenda.
