ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u1	An architect from Kauniainen, Veronica Rehn-Kivi, Head of Building Supervision, who, as deputy to the constituency of Uusimaa, has become a representative from 30 July 2016 instead of Carl Haglund, who has been released, has presented me with his credentials on 9 August 2016. Welcome!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u2	Pirkko Mattila, appointed as a member of the Government, must be replaced by an alternate to the large committee, a member to the Administrative Committee and an alternate to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u3	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u4	Mr President! Dear Parliament! I am pleased to present to Parliament the proposal for a new Youth Act. The main objective of the proposal is to strengthen the participation and empowerment of young people, support the growth and independence of young people, promote equality among young people, equality and the realisation of rights. We will strengthen the importance of young people's hobbies as well as activities in civil society. The obligations and objectives of the law are based on solidarity, cultural diversity, internationality, sustainable development, healthy lifestyles and respect for the environment and life. It is good to build a future youth policy on these. Since the aim of the proposal is to strengthen the participation of young people, we decided to start a new approach already at the drafting stage of the law. We sent the draft law to a wide-ranging historical consultation at the end of 2015. It covered, among other things, all the youth councils in Finland. It was also possible to comment openly on the bill online. In addition, the draft law was discussed in workshops organised jointly with youth organisations. The aim of the proposal is to improve the capacity of state and municipal youth activities and youth NGOs to respond to the change in our society. The majority of young people will live in the western parts of the country and in the largest places of study. At the same time, our society has become increasingly diverse over the last ten years. This change concerns young people in particular. The aim of the proposal is to highlight the importance of youth and to offer diverse services to young people and young people in general. Our youth organisations represent an ever-greater and richer image of society. The forms of youth work change and, for example, the importance of online youth work is strengthened. At the same time, the aim of the Act is to focus on the implementation of a number of key objectives in national youth policy, together with our organisations. According to the proposal, the Government would adopt every four years a national youth work and policy programme, which would be a key instrument for planning and steering the state's youth policy. The programme would be prepared together with young people, organisations and communities working with young people on the ground and would define the main objectives of national youth policy for the next few years. This autumn we will start the preparation of the first, new national youth work and policy programme. I invite our entire youth work field — stakeholders and young people above all — to prepare this important programme. Mr President! The richness of youth policy is based on our diverse youth organisations, which implement the objectives of the Youth Act, including the inclusion of young people, empowerment, equality on the basis of their own foundations. The performance will continue to safeguard the diversity of this organization. According to the proposal, the Ministry of Education and Culture would in future approve the national centres of competence in the field of youth. Any state-assisted youth organisation could seek the role of a centre of excellence and participate in the implementation of a new youth work and policy programme by sharing its own special expertise with the full range of young people. At the same time, the aim is to strengthen the implementation of the new national programme. Mr President! The proposal will reform the regulation of youth outreach work. The number of young people reaching out to young people in search has increased year by year. In 2015, some 18,900 young people were reached by detective youth work. The activities are well established throughout Finland to support young people. We want to continue to support and strengthen this good practice. In addition, the activities of youth workshops and their tasks would in future be governed by law. Workshop activities for young people would not be compulsory for municipalities, but would be voluntary for the municipality. In 2015, nearly 15,000 young people under 28 years of age participated in workshops, and the activities cover almost the whole of Finland. It is important to strengthen cooperation between workshops and educational institutions in order to create meaningful training paths for young people, first through education and training into the profession and working life. We will also intensify this cooperation in the reform of vocational education and training to be submitted to Parliament in spring 2017. Mr President! The proposal under discussion further strengthens the opportunities for young people to participate and influence. According to the proposal, the municipal and state authorities should provide young people with the opportunity to participate, influence or otherwise consult on matters concerning local, regional and national youth work and policy. The participation of young people in the preparation of the National Youth Work and Policy Programme will therefore be one of the first clear measures on the basis of the proposed Youth Act and will start in September with a round table with representatives of youth organisations. I invite every representative to reflect and work on the fact that young people's ability to influence matters affecting themselves is even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u5	I believe that the subject of a short debate exists, and that is why I am asking the representatives who want to use the reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u6	Mr President! In this way, it would be nice to start with happy speeches at the beginning of the work period, and in this respect, the youth law is generally OK.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u9	Mr President! I believe that this law serves mainly its purpose. But it is in the interests of all of us that we have a very diverse and independent youth policy in this country. And I think the League of Youth Councils has seen some threats in this performance. As a result, for example, the funding of centres of excellence in the future would depend somehow on how well these centres implement the government programme. And then I do not think it serves its purpose to promote a diverse and independent youth policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u10	Mr. Speaker! You can be proud of this law. When international guests visit, they admire not only the Finnish education system but also Finnish youth policy. We have done many things well, and many things are still being done very well here. That is where Mr Gustafsson intervened, perhaps the Minister could take a position. After all, in the spending limits debate, we have come to positive decisions in terms of the youth guarantee. First of all, solutions will also be sought at the labour market tables to increase the resources for outreach youth work and workshop activities. I believe and hope that you will find them there. For its part, the government is prepared to do so. In addition, an expert working group was set up for the implementation of the Youth Guarantee in the past. It seeks content on what it means to move from a mere social guarantee, which in itself is important, towards the direction of the Community guarantee. So new ways are to be expected from there as well. That is what we must all bring to this debate. This objective is very, very important and necessary, and the government is making progress here. Perhaps the Minister could open this content even more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u11	Mr President! The Youth Act creates a very important framework for youth work in this country. However, as has been heard, resources are also essential to enable this important work to be done. At least this budget proposal by Finance Minister Orpo included 4.6 million cuts in youth work just now and also in the workshops. And in connection with the budget debate, the government transferred this package with the employment package to tripartite preparation. I too would now like to hear from the Minister whether you are restoring this 4.6 million funding in order to reach even this year's level, and whether you believe that a tripartite position is the right place to decide on the funding priorities for youth work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u12	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that we have brought this issue to the attention of the Youth Act. I would like to highlight one aspect which is also reflected in this government proposal. It is a question of cross-sectoral cooperation, of the way in which our various actors build services in a youth-centred way, not by looking at them by industry through a youth service or a school service or a social welfare and health service, but from the point of view of the young person. That is why it is an excellent thing that we are also starting to strengthen cross-sectoral cooperation. And above all, when different programmes are created, I hope that the young person it touches will be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u13	Mr President! Indeed, there is an important law, for this affects about one third of our population. We all know that youth is not a monolith. More than a decade ago, the late leader of Stakes, Heikkilä, said that a third of our youth is doing better than ever and then almost a third of our young people are talking about a generation that has almost been lost. It is therefore extremely important that attention be paid to the conditions for the life of young people outside organised youth activities. Here are lofty goals, right, great goals, but what is really praksis? It is good that there is an investment in youth work that is looking for, and it also needs this cooperation and answers to the question of who really takes the catch.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u14	Mr President! The Youth Act is, you can say, the most important tool to do the work to keep all young people involved in this society. And I can say from my own experience that it is being monitored very closely in the municipalities and has developed at different stages during previous governments. But it is true that in the budget debate, the government decided, for example, to transfer the decisions relating to the education of young people or to this knowledge programme or to this tripartite working group in search of youth. And the government has said that now the government itself makes decisions and the tripartite is used when needed. What is your position, why are these means there in the trialogue? And perhaps even more crucially, the Government set a limit for this working group to be cost-neutral. Does this now mean that young people in search can only be increased if it is cut from earnings-related unemployment benefit or, for example, Lex Taipale?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u15	Mr President! Mr Nylander raised a question to which I too would like to hear an answer from the Minister in relation to the government's proposal to increase political guidance for the distribution of grants to centres of excellence in the youth field, which is not sustainable at all. I would like to know how the Minister justifies this umbilical cord between the government programme and the distribution of grants from the centres of excellence in the youth field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u16	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for having had such extensive and good consultation in this preparation of the Youth Act, and political youth organisations, for example, have expressed their views on the preparation of the law. It is indeed important that we encourage young people to have democratic influence and take responsibility for their local and environmental environment. I would have liked to draw attention to the fact that, every year, these criteria for state aid always come under discussion and it is extremely important that non-discrimination, equality and respect for fundamental rights be taken into account there, and it is also important that young people themselves are those actors in these organisations, not just those of action. Perhaps the Minister could comment on this distribution of state subsidies, because it always raises so much debate every year. And then there is the question of this minimum age of youth law, the need for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u17	Mr President! It is very good that this law is in the presentation, and it is good that it has been so widely consulted. I would like to take part in the paragraph on youth organisations, because young people cannot be involved if there is no organisational activity through which they can act. We also have quite a lot of proposals to abolish standards here on the part of organisations, from the point of view of whether expenses can also be paid for duty-free, just as people in employment do, and how unemployment is defined when they actively participate in different types of voluntary activities. There are many other obstacles to volunteering and civic activity. Have these come from here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u18	I would also like to respond to Mrs Eloranna, and then I would like to give the Minister a brief speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u19	Mr President! At the beginning of June there were over 54,000 unemployed young people under the age of 25. Although the unemployment rate among young people is still shorter than that of older people, the unemployment rate among young people is continuing to be worryingly prolonged. The Youth Guarantee has prevented the prolonged and marginalisation of unemployment among young people and has helped to improve the education and employment services of young people. As part of that Youth Guarantee, a competence programme for young adults was implemented, among other things, to provide secondary education and a degree for young people who depend on comprehensive school. Now, however, you are driving down this whole programme of skills for young adults just when it has begun to work well, and it has indeed seen very big success stories about how marginalised young people have acquired a profession and have been able to work. Just as this good service has been found, it will now be put to an end. Another unfortunate example is these fourth cuts in detective youth work and workshop activities. Why, good government, are you doing the opposite of what you really want?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u20	Reply to the Minister on the spot, I mean from the speaker's toilet, 3 minutes. Well, the minister gets to choose which place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u21	Mr President! It is a great pleasure that it is with the Youth Act that we begin this autumn session. I must say that we are very proud of this new youth law in the government. It underscores the big story of Finland that we hear young people in decision-making and that young people are greatly appreciated, their participation in social activities and influence and the building of our society. The Government also aims to secure funding for outreach youth work and the skills programme for young adults. This is an unfinished matter insofar as work is still being done on these employment measures, which would undoubtedly be the case. I hope that within a month there will be clarity. But the will is that the funding of outreach youth work and the skills programme for young adults can be secured so that this valuable activity can continue. Similarly, a new Youth Guarantee Task Force is currently working on a number of new perspectives on how to make a youth guarantee that genuinely achieves its objectives. The objectives are common that we have fewer young people outside education and employment, that each young person should find his or her own path, his or her own place, and that requires a great deal more cooperation than has been seen so far among the various authorities, among others. A good question was asked here about who is taking the catch, and that is what has been much thought about in recent years: who has the responsibility, who is helping young people in a very comprehensive way when there is a problem in life? And that is why the government has already stated in its Government Programme that this Ohjaamo activity will be nationalised. So the idea is that a young person from Ohjaamo gets help and guidance for the services he needs. There are now very good experiences of these Cabins already in the municipalities. I hope that this will be the kind of happy achievement that we will then be able to enjoy once we have achieved these objectives and young people will have access to the services from a single door. In the same way, the education month is being taken care of, and it is now being implemented well and in the future. And indeed, all such new ideas around the Youth Guarantee are welcomed with joy. I hope that this will be dealt with in a diverse way in committee and that this Youth Act will also earn visibility. Now that the next steps are to build a programme on which strategic priorities our youth policy will be based over the next few years, we want to do this work, just as the law has been prepared, in good cooperation with the field. This applies to both adults working with young people and, above all, to young people themselves. It has been a matter of honour to me, as Minister for Youth of the Government, that we have increased the representation of youth organisations, student organisations in all working groups aimed at drafting the law,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u24	Thank you. And if there are still a few answers that are absolutely necessary, let us give them space and space. First response, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u25	Mr President! I think this conversation shows that this youth law is a little like this for all parties favorite child, and very good so. It is very important that we see this across government-opposition boundaries in certain areas. But, Mr President, this is not the answer to the fundamental question: it became clear now that the Minister said that, although we have a very good law, it does not warm up much if we do not have the resources. And when the government, at the beginning of its term, cut resources for this youth guarantee — it is glad that the government has reinstated this youth guarantee, which has produced results, including the lowest long-term unemployment among young people in Europe — now this knowledge programme, the detective youth work and the workshop: is it now dependent on how much is being cut off from unemployment security or Lex Lindström? If so, how do you feel about it as a minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u26	Mr President! The Youth Act is a very important law because it can direct this youth work at national level, especially in the direction of municipalities. In this regard, I would like to make a few comments. As the Minister mentioned, this Ohjaamo activity will be extended to a national dimension, and I would like to mention at this stage that the expansion of Ohjaamo activities alone will not remove the problem. Nor does it, Mr Lindtman, remove the problem of how much money is being poured down there to catch all these young people, that is to say, catch them all. We currently have 45,000 young people who are marginalised or clearly exposed to the risk of exclusion, and nearly 120 000 young adults who do not have secondary education. For them, paths need to be created that are a little further thought than, for example, this Ohjaamo activity. The problem is well-diagnosed in the operation of the cockpit, but there is still a lack of intervention and assistance. This is where I would like to ask the Minister how we can develop a system of strong involvement of the third sector in these municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u27	And now I would like to pass on the reply to Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u28	Mr President! The Youth Bill is mainly good, but youth policy is not only done by the Youth Act. The question has to be asked: does the existing broader social policy respond to the growing inequality of young people and the increasing social exclusion of young people? One example of the practice of crowding out young people is the very strict interpretation of the so-called compulsory law obligation. Yesterday a youth who was not accepted as an unemployed job seeker was reported and denied unemployment allowance because he had not applied for school while on child care leave. What kind of message does it send to Finnish youth if they are not even qualified as unemployed job seekers? I would like to ask whether this strict interpretation of the law is in line with the spirit of the Youth Guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u29	Mr President! The Youth Guarantee last season was a success in the sense of strengthening workshops and outreach work in particular. It was precisely the strong basis for catching young people, giving them hand-holding support and help to find a job, an internship. I am concerned about what the continuation of this activity will be when the government has cut resources so heavily. I hope that the Minister will take this matter seriously and take it seriously. Then, second, for a young person, the opportunity to engage in a hobby is very important. It can prevent serious exclusion. Does the Minister see that this Youth Act would have some positive effects on the fact that every child and young person can engage, including children from deprived families?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u30	Mr President! It is of the utmost importance, particularly in the context of the Youth Act — this recognition to the Minister — that it is prepared and prepared with youth organisations and young people themselves and not, for example, by us former youth politicians. Do we know today what is best for young people what they want?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u31	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u63	Mr President! The purpose and objectives of the new Youth Act now to be discussed by Parliament are good. The aim is to promote the inclusion and empowerment of young people as well as the capacity and capacity to act in society, to support the growth, independence, community and related learning of knowledge and skills, as well as the practice and activities of young people in civil society, to promote equality, equality and the realisation of rights among young people, and to improve the growth and living conditions of young people. These objectives are based on solidarity, cultural diversity and internationality, sustainable development, healthy lifestyles, respect for the environment and life, and cross-sectoral cooperation, as set out in the presentation text. These are, of course, all things to be welcomed. A constantly changing society and a change in the international climate are factors that make it a good thing that we also define universal values at the level of children and young people and that civil society will continue to be the foundation of our society in the future. Mr President! It is obvious, however, that this bill was born, not from the needs of the youth field, but from the needs of the present government. Although the introductory text of the draft law states that changes in the environment for young people, in the structures of youth work and in the activities and participation of young people in recent years call for the reform of the Youth Act, the changes proposed in the draft law indicate that this seems to be more about the dismantling of ideological standards promoted by the government than real needs. A concrete example of this is that the proposal would increase the capacity of the municipality to carry out youth work and policy as it wishes. According to section 8 of the proposed Act on the responsibilities of the municipality, the municipality could better take into account local circumstances when creating the conditions for youth work and policy. Article 9 of the proposed law would not lay down the composition of the multidisciplinary cooperation In practice, this will have an impact on what the municipalities are doing for young people. The volume of youth work and different types of activities will vary a lot in different municipalities. There is a high risk of regional inequality between young people depending on the municipality of residence. The tight economy of municipalities can easily lead to compromises between young people's services and large inequalities between different municipalities and young people living in different municipalities. This is not good. Mr President! The government is pushing down the Youth Guarantee strongly in a situation where unemployment has been growing for years. The draft law refers in several paragraphs to youth work and youth workshops. However, the government plans to cut this activity by 24% next year, i.e. a total of EUR 4.65 million. The question is, how can municipalities organise this activity if there is no money for it? As a matter of urgency, the government should mobilise all possible means to combat unemployment and speed up the pace of the economy. At its summer meeting, the SDP Parliamentary Group presented a ten-point list, which also included a proposal to increase youth guarantee resources and develop operating models in order to strengthen the conditions for employment, in particular for young people who do not have a first job. We should not cut off those who need help the most, but rather increase resources substantially. The Finnish youth guarantee model has been successful and should be further developed. In line with the Finnish model, even a common youth guarantee model was built in the EU framework and funding was provided. It is sad, therefore, that the government has pushed down most of the funding for the Youth Guarantee and, at the same time, paralysed the development of the guarantee. This, together with the reduction of employment funds, has led, among other things, to insufficient funding for employers with a Passi card to support the employment of young people. The key objective of the Youth Guarantee to break unemployment among young people for the past three months is running away longer. The strength of the Youth Guarantee approach has been to involve different actors at local level in cooperation for the benefit of young people. I therefore appeal to the Government not to undermine the implementation of the Youth Guarantee that has produced good results, but to be prepared to develop it in cooperation with organisations that have supported the Youth Guarantee and other actors. This should also be reflected in the state budget. Don't brush up on the Youth Guarantee, just develop it. With all due respect, I can't do that. We need money, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u64	Mr President! At the moment, the population most affected by social exclusion is young people under 20 years of age. In particular, it is seen as a desperation when, despite many attempts, you do not get a place to study. Then here we wonder how many of these people who have not received secondary education are present. However, we are not creating a framework for them to do this. This is a major flaw. When you read paragraph 4 of this proposal, the effects of the proposal, you can see that now these eligibility criteria, who can receive, modify and tighten up these grants. I can only imagine how many youth organisations are currently thinking about what this means in practice. The proposal has not opened up what these new eligibility criteria are, but states that they are likely to lead to a reduction in the number of organisations receiving the grant. I believe that this is an issue which should be taken into account in committee in a specific way and ensure that these criteria of access to these aid organisations, those which assist and support young people, are maintained in such a way that as many as possible can obtain them. What, then, does this increase in political guidance mean? What's its point of view? What about Christian organizations, how have they been considered? The congregations and the organizations within them are doing a tremendous, remarkable job. What about those criteria, and have those who do this with their own input and then receive little support from society been taken into account in any particular way? The Christian Democrats are happy to welcome this proposal and see that its strength has been that it is united among young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u65	Mr President! At the outset, I must say that I am very pleased that, as a minister, we finally have a person who is below the middle age himself and is very youthful and very enthusiastic about young people. This is also reflected in the good work done by the Minister, who has also addressed, for example, this reform of vocational schools with new initiatives. And I believe that there will certainly be a number of changes during this reign that the SDP's contribution to Eloranta looked forward to. In other words, the Youth Guarantee did not achieve the objectives of the last parliamentary term that was promised here at the beginning of the parliamentary term, but remained tolerable in many respects, and it was noted that it was not working, because the ministers did not necessarily understand what it meant in practice when we started to take those measures, and what they were going to achieve. Mr President! A few comments on this content of the Youth Act. — How much time do we have? Five minutes? [First Vice-President Mr Mario Pekkarinen: None... ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u68	Mr President! Mr Niiko had a very important speech. The most important thing is not always money and education, but the most important thing is the people who care about the young. Mr President! Among the objectives of the revised Youth Act are the promotion of young people's inclusion and empowerment, support for community and independence, and the improvement of equality and growth conditions for young people. These are all well-supported goals, and I really hope that these things can be improved by law. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for the reform of this youth law. It's really necessary. The previous Youth Act dates back to 2006, when we lived a very different time from the young people's point of view. The economic situation in society and many families was better and digital games and devices were not quite as common as they are today. The revised Youth Act therefore responds well to the changing environment for young people. However, preventing exclusion is probably one of the most important objectives of the law, and the cooperation and early intervention of the authorities may give young people fresh impetus. It is also important to maintain and develop outreach youth work. This will reach many young people who are in need of ideas and small pushers. Workshops for young people are also an excellent way to reach young people. The draft law states that the workshop activities of young people have been carried out in several localities for more than 30 years. In 2015, there will be nearly 230 workshop organisers and 281 municipalities. Through extensive coverage, young people living in slightly more remote areas will also be able to participate in the guided workshop activities. Promoting equality and empowerment is also particularly important when family income disparities are increasing and young people have very different starting points for life. For example, I believe that all young people should have access to sports hobbies regardless of the size of their wallet. The importance of physical activity in the education of young people cannot be overestimated. Active inclusion of physical activity in youth work is central. Exercise promotes the physical and mental well-being of young people. Preventing exclusion can also be influenced by involving young people in hobbies. Youth organisations and volunteers play a key role. There's a lot of kids who need a self-help. Volunteering must not be made more difficult in the future either. As I said, youth organisations are an important channel of influence for young people and their role in the social participation of young people is central. However, it should be noted that, unfortunately, not all youth organisations are treated equally in terms of funding. This is particularly the case for political youth organisations. Equality for them too would be desirable. As Niikko and Elo have already said, the Finns have been suffering from this inequality for years now, and I want to believe that this issue will be corrected in the future. Digitality has also been taken into account in the Youth Act. The new digital environment in which young people spend much of their time really needs to be taken into account. At the same time, however, it makes sense to make sure that traditional writing skills and also literacy are strong in the future. Communityism has been taken as a central starting point in the drafting of legislation, and this is good. By working with others, a young person learns best the basic skills of a good citizen. Questions are raised about equal opportunities for municipalities to take the measures required by the Youth Act. The operating models are not free of charge and, as we are well aware, there are significant differences in wealth between municipalities. It would be essential to ensure that all young people have access to youth work and activities regardless of their place of residence. Mr President! There is also work to be done to ensure that respect for others, good manners, respect for life and empathy are among the values of young people. In addition to youth work, this work plays a central role in home and school. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u69	Mr President! Indeed, it is nice to begin this autumn session with such a bill, which seems to have such a pleasant consensus across party boundaries. In other words, we are dealing with the Youth Act, the preparation of which has already been praised in many speeches in this Chamber today for the hardworking and competent Minister Grahn-Laaso — if it is necessary to define the minister by some definition. The preparation of this law has shown that the Minister is also involved and has included young people in the preparation, so that this law also looks like young people, as the Youth Act must be. The new Youth Act will be needed and will strengthen this old, current law in so far as the law has been left out of time and proved ineffective over the years. Times change, and that is where these laws need to be revised. This new law also clarifies the division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality as regards, for example, youth work. I myself have been concerned — not only with the preparation of this youth law, but also with this entry in the municipal law on youth councils — about the way in which it can genuinely be ensured that young people have the right influence, especially in those municipalities. This has been a challenge insofar as it is understandable that it is not possible to impose new tasks and obligations on municipalities over the old ones, even with regard to this law. However, this new law gives municipalities a better opportunity to carry out youth work in the light of local circumstances. However, I would like to draw attention to this effectiveness of the law and its genuine influence, because that is something that we can all do, especially there, in the future. The key objective of the new Youth Act is to strengthen the ability of young people to participate and influence society. These opportunities to participate and influence are reinforced in the new law, not only by municipalities but above all by state administration, but also by municipalities. The way in which this new youth law will be implemented in the municipalities will therefore be crucial to the realisation of young people's social inclusion. In the context of the reform, it would also be essential to pay attention to the effectiveness of young people's opportunities for participation, so that it does not become apparent or over-embedded, how easily it will be if young people are set up with some other decision-making places of their own influence. The participation, influence and consultation of young people is regulated taking into account this youth council opportunity mentioned in local government, it may also be another group of influences for young people, but in many municipalities this youth council solution has been found, and it is all right because there are very good examples of youth councils, good experiences in many municipalities. However, it must be borne in mind that it is not enough to set up a youth council on its own, but rather to secure the conditions for its youth council to operate, and then the genuine link between the activities of the youth council and the actual decision-making process in which young people are not able to participate, for example, in municipal or urban councils. So that influence must not remain apparent, and that is what we must safeguard in that implementation. Yes, it is easy to think that by ensuring that every municipality has that youth council, it has this obligation to participate and have influence, but of course this is not yet the case. The opinion of young people can only be heard if it is listened to. And in that hearing and listening, the solution is not that young people only talk to each other. It is also important for us adults to review attitudes and practices so that young people feel that this work they do really matters in order to improve the effectiveness of participation opportunities and consultation. I would also like to talk very briefly about these general objectives of the law. Mr President, the general aim of the law is to mention many good, important objectives. Above all, I would like to highlight sustainable development, which is a good general social guideline, precisely as it is understood in this draft law, i.e. in broad terms, account being taken of the economic, social and environmental aspects and responsibilities of all three. In addition, the general objective of the law is to mention cultural diversity and internationality as a basis of value, and I think it is particularly important at this time that these values — the diversity of cultures — are displayed and strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u70	Mr President! Good Minister! Children and young people who grow up in Finland must have the opportunity to have a happy childhood and have equal opportunities for later life regardless of their parents’ education, financial status and place of residence. I therefore welcome the youth law in the presentation and its spirit to strengthen the participation, listening and equality of young people, but the law is not enough to fill the gaps we have in other basic services and family livelihoods, with a radical impact on the lives of young people. At the beginning of August, the National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) and the Finnish Youth Research Society published their groundbreaking follow-up study, which monitored all approximately 60,000 people born in Finland in 1987 from the gestational period up to the age of 25 and their parents. The age group of those born in 87 grew up during the recession of the 1990s, when unemployment and economic difficulties faced a significant proportion of families. At that time, basic services for children and families were severely reduced and preventive work was reduced. Health inspections of schoolchildren were reduced, maternity clinic work was reduced, home services for families with children were driven down, youth centres were closed and the resources and personnel of schools and kindergartens were saved. This has also been done in the 2010s. The development and well-being of children and young people is influenced by both the genetic and biological, psychological and social environment. It is also influenced by social decisions and by the social, material and cultural resources of family and family life management. Man is an entity in which physical and mental health are intertwined. Although the well-being of children and young people derives from the well-being of families, other development environments, such as day-care centres, school, living environment, youth centre and hobbies, also play an important role in securing everyday life and well-being. The experiences of childhood have a clear link to the future well-being of young people. The study by THL shows that the political decisions of the recession of the 1990s are visible. One in five of those born in 87, or nearly 12,000, had taken psychiatric drugs or had been in special psychiatric care by the age of 21. A total of about 15,000, or 26%, had entries in the penal record or in the criminal record. 11,000, or 18.5%, lacked a post-primary degree about five years after the end of comprehensive school, and about 8,000 of them are not in employment. Poverty during childhood is the most significant of the individual risk factors for the well-being of young adults. According to this study by THL, unemployment and economic and health problems for parents increase children’s schooling and mental health problems and take-overs. The younger the child has been in the face of financial deprivation, the more harmful it will be for the later welfare, as measured by education, teenage motherhood, crime, and mental health. In particular, the accumulation of parenting factors has an adverse effect on the ability of young people to become involved in society. Health problems often occur only after a long period of time. Therefore, support for well-being and preventive work must start early. Families with children should be helped even before problems arise. From an individual’s point of view, today the Finnish service system operates too late and only after serious problems arise. This needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u71	Mr President! Youth work is about giving a young person the opportunity to shape his or her own future into his or her own, and in that work he or she needs to be at the centre of his or her own desire. It may be a question of youth policy, how to promote young people's citizenship, how to strengthen young people in general in social terms, whether they are life skills or the prevention of exclusion, and how to support the independence and growth of young people. If we are now thinking about the major structural reforms, such as the social reform, the reform of the division of labour between municipalities and regions, I would like to challenge the Minister to think that, in addition to the services of young people — whether in youth services or in education, which is already there on a municipal basis — we would collect employment services there in the same bag and in the same whole. Because now, if we look at what we know at the moment, the municipalities will be left with education, youth work, the remaining workshops, preventive youth work and many youth growth-supporting services, but if we move from there to employment services at the regional level, we will have a tough wall between how to promote the employment of young people. That is why I would like to see the responsibility of young people for employment and the responsibility of employment services transferred to local authorities in this overall reform, because I believe that there we could build a more integrated whole that would take greater account of the needs of young people, and especially when there are businesses there, there are housing and there are many things that are related to the lives of young people. Then we could make a truly multi-service service that would support young people. If you think of Hämeenlinna, where we have had a board of young people and children, which has dealt with the whole sector — and otherwise there has been the representation of youth councils at every meeting in order to decide on these matters — it has worked well because it has been able to look at the whole. And I believe that if youth employment services were transferred to municipalities, a better entity would emerge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u72	Mr President! It has indeed been a pleasure to listen to this debate when it can be said that representatives of both the government and the opposition have been satisfied with the Youth Act as such. Workshop activities and preventive youth work, which has rightly been in the debate today, have now been raised as the main problem. I hope that, as this autumn progresses — and the Minister has also promised here that a joint solution will be sought for this outreach youth work and workshop work, and the funding will be secured — we will be able to join forces on that front before Christmas to thank you for having succeeded in this. But, Mr President, I am the chairman of the National Workshop Association from the beginning of this year, and for this reason I have traveled around Finland to explore these workshops and these activities and content. And now, in fact, in this regard, I would like to point out that, when we are talking about youth law, this youth law also includes our employment policy and the other funding lines that the government has now adopted, which concern pay subsidies. As a general rule, this pay subsidy is directed to companies, and at the moment there is great concern in the workshops that funding will no longer be available, which means that they will no longer be able to employ young people through pay support work in these workshops. In practice, it will also mean that some of these workshops across Finland will have to be driven down, and that is certainly not our objective, nor is it the goal of the government or parliament, that this workshop and detective youth activities will have to be driven down because of this funding and the inadequacy of pay support. Then, President, the Minister spoke about Ohjaamo and its nationalisation. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : I ask you to move to the 2 minutes from the location is the limit, after which either stop or move to the podium. — The representative moves to the podium. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u75	Mr President! Although I am no longer covered by the Youth Act, a few words about this will dare to say. First of all, I can join in thanking you for what has been said here about the objectives of this law. They are very good, they are very much to be welcomed and, in that respect, it is hoped that this law will then be put into effect quickly. But what has also emerged here and what cannot be avoided in this debate is this resource side, i.e. whether these resources support the objectives of this law and the fact that we really can increase the involvement of young people. The employment situation of young people and the measures that should be taken there are essential elements to this. That is perhaps the message that should go on from this debate, that now that a good law is being passed, then, hopefully, a good government will be able to ensure that we do not have the problems that have been raised here. Then I would have asked the minister. When there has been a bit of a fuss about the objectives of the law and the so-called values at which they are based, and when the word'multiculturalism' had to be changed from here to 'cultural diversity' and this was celebrated as a great victory by certain political groups, I would now have asked the Minister when I consider this to be perhaps a trivial matter: What, then, really changes here? Or will anything change?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u76	Mr President! Many times it has already been said here that this legislative package before us is a welcome and welcome package that enables youth work to be carried out in regions with different circumstances. We should therefore be aware that youth work is currently carried out under very different conditions and with different resources throughout Finland. But good practices can be found in both large and small municipalities, and these good practices must now be brought up and used. Even after more than 30 years of work, the national coverage of youth workshops is not yet complete. There is also no youth detective activity in every municipality, and I think there are some municipalities where neither of these can be found. Fortunately, however, these municipalities are running out of time, with the fingers of one hand, but we must persevere in seeking incentives to enable young people, regardless of where they live, to obtain the services referred to in this law. I would like to make a point here that is not really part of this law: the flow of information between the various experts must be improved. Very often a youth is left without a traveler, such as a youth detective, because the information does not pass. Young detectives need to have easier personalised information about young people in order to find the young person who needs an adult at their side. Young people must not just be numbers in statistics. We adults – this is where it was said earlier that middle-aged people – should open up opportunities for young people to participate locally. After all, young people themselves are very clever in introducing different ways of working. They don't worry about communicating online or in the Bitworld. I think most of the obstacles are between our grown-ups' ears. This involves the fact that an adult must also be able to be reached during periods other than office hours, including discussions on the Internet there. The Student Union of comprehensive school is the first step as an organised channel of influence. In order to support the student body’s work, dedicated school adults and the right things are needed. In other words, schoolchildren and young people must be allowed to deal with things that they can actually influence and, reasonably quickly, see the impact of their own activities. It would be even better if they themselves could be involved in carrying out these projects. Consultation of young people is commonplace in many municipalities. It has to be, but there's still a lot to develop. In many municipalities, young people have wisely been involved in the preparatory work of the boards on an equal footing with other decision-makers. And, as has already been said, almost all the decisions taken in the municipalities are in some way also for young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u77	Mr President! I would like to talk a little about democratic education, which is not worse than before in the new law, but unfortunately not much better. The big problem and stumbling block of democracy education and the concept of democracy for all of us children and young people is that we assume from the adult world that young people think the same way; that any 7-year-old in the school's student body will be able to represent all first-graders, perhaps even second-graders; that any young person in the youth council will be able to tell the reality of young people in broad-salted countries; that we have a young staff of age on the board means that the voice of young people will be heard on the board in general. In practice, the young people who participate in these democratic performances that are being held for young people usually come from families where political activity is commonplace and which are quite often upper middle class families. Research shows, however, that among children, opinions and views differ in just as broad a range as in the adult world. Gathering a youth council with such principles would be exactly the same as gathering our Parliament on the grounds that any 40-year-old Tampere can well speak on behalf of all 40-year-old Tamperes, perhaps even the Lempaans. Such a concept of democracy is a one-party system rather than a multi-party system, and it is characterised by the fact that it hides differences of opinion rather than raising children to benefit from them, and it allows them to reach wiser solutions through the debat, than how one vote, one opinion, in reality, can be achieved. The second fact is that the individual’s qualities, as well as those of the social class, directly correlate with the degree of trust in official democratic bodies and the willingness and willingness to participate in them, for example by voting or even standing as a candidate. This is only natural, because if a person feels that the system does not produce anything positive for him, it does not provide him with a way to improve his or her position, then, of course, a reasonable person will direct his energy to such forms of influence, practices that are better suited to this need. That is why we should take very seriously the fact that young people, you can say, even reject our traditional democratic system. It's about mistrust, it's about a sense of powerlessness, and above all it's about a huge need for change in this system, not how well we know how to brainwash our young people into it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u78	Mr President! It is actually a very good thing that, when we begin the autumn session, the first issue is the Youth Act and that it has attracted so much interest from different perspectives. Fifty speeches have already been made in this Chamber so far, and from very different perspectives, things have been raised: young people's everyday lives, opportunities for the future, sociological analysis, development ideas have been made, and so on. In fact, this is a very good sign that there is concern and responsibility for young people in this Chamber. And above all, that thinking has been in many cases that we do not make the law for young people, but that we raise them up so that they can be more subjective in their lives. During that period of debatation, I myself raised that fundamental question: who really is going to catch the young? And the Minister replied that it is precisely this Ohjaamo activity and its development and expansion that is a responsible, realistic path. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister: to what extent, for example, data protection issues currently stand in the way of this type of Ohjaamo activity not being best served by young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u79	Madam President! There has been a good debate today on the situation of young people and how we can take this aspect of youth forward here at national level. Of course, employment opportunities are a big thing, but then these are all the support measures that can be done on that side, and it must be said, as far as this detective youth work is concerned, that it is interesting what this proposal from the social partners then comes up with in this regard, that how can the model be taken forward on that side, because it is considered to be good. However, when this opportunity came to pass in 2011, it was stipulated that this work is voluntary by municipalities and yet the resources must be secured for this, even though I think that a good idea and development should be made available at national level, because, as has been said, it will pay for itself. A couple of weeks ago we visited Oulu at the first Ohjaamo on the youth side of Finland, where all these youth-supporting activities from the authorities and youth work have been compiled in a multiprofessional way. After all, these results are significant there, and as far as the professionals are concerned, they still relate precisely to this information between the various authorities, which is also mentioned in this text of the government bill. There are good experiments in this regard, but, as we know, there are still problems between the authorities in the support and assistance of both young and children, in the absence of this information, and tragic situations arise when you are unaware of bad situations in the family. In the case of young people too, there are problems between different actors, as between different employment actors and government and municipal authorities. So this information is something that should be resolved nationally. I would like to say a word about that matter of the county council. An excellent opening is that there would be half of the provincial councils of these young... [President MariaLohela : I am sorry, Mr Jarvan has moved on to your speaking room if you wish. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u82	One last speaker has been asked to speak on the list. After that, Minister Grahn-Laasonen will be able to respond if you wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u83	Mr President! It is truly wonderful that we have been able to go through the youth law, the situation of our young people, as the first government presentation. The law is very good in its objectives, and I would like to raise a few to this end: to support the growth, independence, community and civil society of young people, i.e. many good objectives. I am sure we will continue to have questions about how we can do better, but in this respect the Youth Act will be a great multi-professionalism, which is today, that we should go there at school and think about how the roles of the various professionals will be better coordinated. Similarly, the question arose as to how to find the one important person responsible for the youth. It may be a key issue that will be decided. This is also a question of the flow of information, where it comes from, and Sitra has had these flagging and other projects in which concrete means have been sought. I thought, however, to finish with Little G's song, the words in which Little G sings: "We are young, we are the future. Everything grows up, the kids grow up. Mistakes learn and experiences grow. Who we would not ettiny do, every usist is vip."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u84	Then Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u85	Mr President! Thank you to Parliament for these very encouraging speeches. The Youth Act — a revised, even better law on youth — did receive a good, positive reception in this referral debate and will now proceed to the committee's next reading. It is true that this involvement of young people is common to us and must take place in all sectors of decision-making. As Minister for Youth of the Government, I am sometimes concerned that youth issues are not just lumped together in the youth sector as it were, but that the voice of young people should be heard in decision-making in all sectors. Whether we talk about social and health care or land use, housing, construction, everything, education policy for granted and so on, they should be the policy areas in which young people have their say. In other words, any policy, you can say, is youth policy, and involving young people in decision-making requires work on the part of us decision-makers to ensure that the voice of young people is heard. Good speeches were made here about how there is no one voice among young people, but there are very many different voices in an increasingly pluralist society. It is wealth and strength, but it requires that we hear different views with a more sensitive ear, not just individual views. A few questions and observations were raised here and, of course, much remains to be done in later stages. Cabins: A very important goal for national Cabins is to find functional local solutions that do not build something new on top or duplicate activities, but build such network cooperation models that make the services of young people as easily accessible to our young people as possible, and that From the cabs you can guide young people to the right path, forward in life, so that there is one place to go where you can get help and support. But here we have a big job ahead of us. Similarly, the new Youth Guarantee Task Force will certainly produce new proposals, which I hope will be seen as open-minded, so that such new ideas will also emerge. This youth guarantee target was set during the last government term, but it is clear that it was not completed in four years, but had a lot of shortcomings. Efforts are now being made to patch them up and develop them in such a way that those working with young people will work more closely together so that individual paths and help reach every young person. Similarly, I support all the different forms of inclusion, whether they be youth councils, student councils or young people's democracy built in a new province and various channels of influence, so that we can make the voice of young people better heard at all levels of decision-making. Thank you for this debate. We will return to the Youth Act once Parliament has had even more time to look into the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u86	Tack, fru talman! This package of laws, as Mr Gustafsson said, is a very good whole, and here there are good objectives, such as this promotion of cultural diversity, whether it is that or multiculturalism. I'd like to ask you a few questions about this detective youth work. It has probably been said in the government's objectives that it should cover the whole country. However, it has now been under heavy operating threats in two budget readings. After all, these threats have been somewhat countered in the course of the proceedings. How do you see: how can this objective cover the whole country — which, in my view, is a very important objective in terms of regional equality — be reconciled with this tight economic situation and with the obvious desire for cuts? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u87	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, I think a minute will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u88	Mr President! This subject has been discussed in this Chamber for a long time, and I have already answered this question of funding several times. The Government's will is that we can secure the funding of outreach youth work, workshops and the skills programme for young adults, and this will be the subject of a return in the next month.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u89	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u90	Mr President! Cultural heritage is one of the fundamental elements of civilisation and national culture. The preservation of significant cultural objects as part of national cultural property is important. The purpose and aim of this Government's proposal is to clarify and update existing provisions on the export of cultural goods, to raise awareness of the procedures and licensing practices relating to the export of cultural goods and to promote the protection of national treasures belonging to the national cultural heritage. The current export law would be repealed with this new law and replaced by this new export status. It shall apply to the export of cultural objects belonging to the national cultural heritage from Finland to other Member States of the European Union and to exports from the territory of the Union. Articles of national cultural heritage as defined in the Law should not be exported without an export authorisation. Articles requiring an export licence are structured by law into four main categories. A group of categories 1 to 3 would include objects of Finnish national history and prominent persons, objects referred to in the Antiquities Act and valuable archives and collections. The fourth group is objects whose permitability would be affected by age, country of origin and residence in Finland. The National Board of Antiquities and the National Gallery would be the authorities for the export of land. If necessary, they would ask for expert advice from other museums and other experts. With the new law, the National Board of Antiquities maintains a register of permit decisions. This law does not have any economic impact on the State or any significant impact on the functioning of the public authorities. It is also not intended to interfere with the ownership of a private person if the person moves away from Finland or if he or she receives a cultural object as a legacy or on the basis of a division. I believe that this bill is necessary and is also in line with our international commitments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u91	Mr President! As the Minister has just said, this is an important law for the preservation of cultural heritage. I myself would like to draw attention to that group 4 — the vehicles that have been identified there. Finland has such things as historical cars. Automobile clubs maintain important cultural historical vehicles in Finland, and they do good cultural work there. An important point has now been raised here, such as whether these so-called museum vehicles or similar can be exported from the country. I think it is important that this be specified in the way set out in this proposal and that a formal framework be established for it. We have important people in Finland who have driven a vehicle, and some of these things, presidential cars among others, and there have been such situations that these cars have been exported from Finland and in this way lost it important cultural historical value. Now, this draft law pays the right attention to this, and then, when this is in committee, I hope that the appropriate organisations will be consulted as experts in it, so to speak, and that the necessary attention will be given to the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u92	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Economic Committee must give its opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u93	Mr President! During the summer, we have worked hard for you here in Parliament at the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Board of Directors. Collective management organisations, such as Teosto and Kopiosto, are key players in the copyright market. They grant licences for copyright-protected content on behalf of authors and other rightholders. The activities of collective management organisations also include the management and accounting of copyright compensation to rightholders, the control of the use of works and other activities for the benefit of rightholders. The Government’s proposal aims to ensure that collective management organisations responsible for collective management of copyright operate efficiently, transparently and responsibly and that there are healthy competitive conditions in the sector. The proposal strengthens the position of rightholders and users. In the future, rightholders will be free to choose which collective management organisation they wish to belong to and to which extent the organisation will be able to carry out copyright licensing on their behalf. The decision-making powers of rightholders in the organisation are also strengthened. The starting point is that rightholders should be able to decide on matters concerning them. Collective management organisations have a monopoly on the copyright market: both rightholders and users depend on them. It is therefore necessary to ensure that collective management organisations cannot abuse their position. There have been numerous cases in Europe involving the activities of collective management organisations. In Finland, the activities of collective management organisations have also been investigated. In 2014, the Finnish Competition Authority published a study on the market failures in Finland. Many of the shortcomings found in it are now being corrected. The Government's proposal implements at national level the European Union Directive on the collective management of copyright and related rights and on the licensing of online rights in musical works across the territory of several countries. In the internal market, it is important that all collective management organisations operate according to the same rules of play. This is the only way to safeguard healthy conditions of competition. The Directive is also linked to the EU digital agenda. The problem, particularly in the music licensing market, has been the difficulty of acquiring the necessary rights for online music services. In the past, cross-border services, like our Nokian Comes With Music a few years ago, had to negotiate copyrights for each geographical area separately. This resulted in significant additional costs for music service providers. The new legislation will create a solution to facilitate the licensing of the rights of musical works for cross-border music services. In addition, collective management organisations are required to introduce e-service opportunities. This promotes digitalisation. Mr President! The proposal for a law on collective management of copyright will improve the legal protection of rightholders and users in relation to collective management organisations. Any discriminatory or otherwise inappropriate contractual or other practices may be referred to the court for review or brought to the attention of the supervisory authority. According to the proposal, the Supervisory Authority is the Patent and Registration Board. The directive on collective copyright management is a minimum directive which allows for further national regulation. This possibility has been limited, as the directive is quite detailed. In order to keep the collective management of copyright involved in the development of society, it has been necessary to create an arrangement that promotes the smooth functioning of the law and the development of collective management in a dynamic way. An important role would be played here by the Advisory Board for the Development of Collective Governance, where the various stakeholders are represented. The aim is to ensure that collective management of copyright develops in line with the expectations of the surrounding society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u94	Mr President! This proposal is a step in the right direction. Of course, it is a small step and it is taken more than ten years too late, but it is better now than it was then. The European Union's digital single market is not working, as is known, and an important factor in this is the fragmented copyright system in Europe. While products, people and capital move freely across EU borders, bits do not move. I can buy a paper machine from Malta, but I do not watch Swedish TV shows online, at least if I do not cheat that I am physically located in Sweden — especially in Åland this has been criticized for a long time. In a digitalising world, it is therefore necessary to add the fourth digital dimension to the EU's principle of free movement: knowledge must also move freely in Europe. It is not just about music, as in this presentation: from an internet point of view, all content consists of similar bits, whether it is music, movies, news, literature, games, virtual worlds or even 3D printer control files. There is no point in creating separate legal systems for different content if they are distributed with the same technology. Indeed, the fragmented European copyright system has given American media companies the advantage of the world’s digital content market. It is quite different to develop media services in an open internal market the size of the United States than in an internal market the size of Finland or even France, and once the service has been completed in the United States, the European market has also been easy to take over one country at a time. We Finns are also increasingly watching, listening, reading and experiencing domestic content through American services – in practice, European content producers have become torpedoes of American media giants. Mr President! I understand that Finland cannot go beyond the directive in its national legislation. Opening up the Digital Single Market is legislation at EU level. However, I hope, I expect, that Finland will continue to take the initiative to restore the global competitiveness of the European content industry by promoting, among other things, a comprehensive European copyright system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u95	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u96	Madam President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the Government wants to reform social and unemployment security in a way that encourages the rapid reception of work, the reduction of periods of unemployment, the reduction of structural unemployment and the saving of public resources. The changes to unemployment security aim at saving EUR 200 million per year in earnings-related security expenditure. The Government's proposal is part of the top project of the Government Programme, which aims to dismantle the incentive traps that prevent work from taking place, to reduce structural unemployment. Other points in the key project have already been or will be presented. The proposal proposes to reduce the duration of unemployment allowance from 500 to 400 days. For those with less than three years of work history, the duration would be reduced to 300 days. According to the law in force, the earnings-related component of earnings-related daily allowance has been paid for up to 400 days to those who have not worked for a total of at least three years. The maximum duration would be maintained on 500 days for unemployed persons who meet the conditions for employment after the age of 58, i.e. the maximum duration of unemployment allowance for the elderly and, at the same time, the hardest-employed, is not proposed to be modified. It is proposed to amend the calculation rule for the increased earnings component so as to reduce the amount of the increased earnings component. The increased earnings component is 58 per cent of the difference between the daily salary and the basic salary. Where the salary per month is higher than 95 times the basic component, the earnings component shall be 35 % for the daily salary above this. The proposal proposes an increased earnings component of 55% of the difference between the daily salary and the basic salary, as well as a change that, when the salary is higher than 95 times the basic wage, the earnings component would be 25 % above this limit. It is proposed to give up the increase and increase in earnings after a long career and to extend the retention period from 5 to 7 days. According to studies on unemployment benefit, the level of unemployment benefit and the maximum duration of benefit have an impact on the duration and reemployment of unemployment. The proposed changes are estimated to increase employment by around 9,000 person-years. The proposed amendment also aims at saving EUR 200 million per year in earnings security expenditure. The proposed changes have been targeted in such a way that they do not unduly undermine the income of the unemployed person. Reductions in earnings-related daily allowance are allocated to the increased earnings-related components that come on top of the normal earnings-related allowance. Thus, during the period of employment-promoting services, the increase will remain an incentive to take part in the services, but its level is slightly lower than at present. The most important of the proposals contained in the proposal is the reduction of the duration of unemployment allowance. In Finland, the duration of unemployment allowance is long internationally, which increases the risk that unemployment will be prolonged and, as a result, employment will become even more difficult. After six months of unemployment, employment is significantly more difficult. That is why all measures to get the unemployed back to work as quickly as possible are important. This can not only be influenced by changing the conditions of unemployment benefit, but also by a number of other changes. It is particularly important to improve the efficiency of services provided by employment and economic development offices in the early stages of unemployment, especially for job seekers at high risk of long-term unemployment. Based on international studies, the enhanced service, together with the shorter unemployment allowance duration, is expected to contribute to the active job search of the unemployed and reduce periods of unemployment. This is important not only for the unemployed but also for the public finances. The reduction in the average duration of unemployment by one day is estimated to save the cost of unemployment by EUR 20 million per year. The amendments are expected to enter into force from the beginning of 2017. The reduction in the maximum duration of unemployment allowance would apply to those who start receiving unemployment allowance after the amendment of the law. Thus, no one’s unemployment allowance entitlement would end in 2017 due to the new maximum duration, but only at the earliest in late 2018. I believe that a turnaround in employment has already taken place at that time and that the chances of getting a job are clearly better. The aim of the proposal is therefore not to transfer the unemployed to labour market support, but to contribute to the fact that as few unemployment as possible would lead to long-term unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u97	Oh, well, here's some eager debaters right away. — Mr Andersson can begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u98	Mr President! This is now one of many government proposals aimed at reducing unemployment security and tightening its conditions. All these proposals are based on the same type of thinking that Finland's unemployment is due to the lack of willingness to work or to the lack of incentives to apply for employment. In fact, the main problem facing this country at the moment is precisely the lack of demand for labour and the lack of jobs. In this regard, the Minister referred to studies showing that the length of periods of unemployment is affected by the level and duration of unemployment benefit. What the Minister did not comment on here is that its impact is cyclically dependent. In other words, according to international research literature, this impact is much lower in times of recession or recession, when there are not enough job vacancies compared to the number of unemployed. In other words, it is very likely that this government proposal will lead to an increase in the number of unemployed people having to apply for labour market support and housing allowance,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u99	Mr President! The measure of civilization in society is measured in the way it cares for its weakest, how it cares for those who have experienced misfortune. A person who becomes unemployed without his own fault already loses half his income. And now the proposal you have brought here means that for those who, without their own fault, have already lost half their income, you will cut back so that the average earner who has worked on earnings will lose as much as EUR 4000 a year according to this proposal. And so far, it is clear that cutting unemployment benefit will not bring jobs, you have also argued that these will be used to reduce debt. I looked at the government budget for next year, and it seems that next year there will still be more debt than in 2015. This money is not spent on debt, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u100	Mr President! Instead of cutting the length of income security now and probably later in the autumn, it would be the most sensible thing to do a whole big renovation of the entire unemployment benefit instead of tinkering. It should be based, as Mr Andersson pointed out, on a cyclical approach, then on its staggering and simplification so that unemployment benefit would not distinguish people from the type of employment relationship or working time. This is because we no longer live in such a world where there is a clear line between an entrepreneur and an employee or between unemployment and employment. Instead of tinkering and cutting, is the government going to reform the whole system properly at once?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u101	Mr President! I believe that the government has taken the right place in this matter. All the things that help to improve employment, such as this reduction in unemployment benefit when it leads to employment, I think it is a good starting point to start work on this issue. And there are different systems in Finland. As a self-employed small business, I consider the wage subsidy system to be a good one. And if progress can be made in such matters, it offers work in Finland. I would like to see speeches here which are genuinely job-creating alternatives and people who employ in Finland. People here talk a lot about employment, but how many wage-payers are there in this Chamber at the moment — not very many.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u102	Mr President! I believe that the government has a problem with regard to unemployment, because we now have on the table proposals for cuts in unemployment security and, before even a referral debate on this law, the government is planning further cuts in unemployment security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u105	Mr President! Indeed, this is an operation, and it is a very cruel one for the unemployed. Let us imagine that it will create jobs when you cut off the unemployed. This is an unfortunate sign, Mr President, of the government's choices of values.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u108	Madam President! Fortunately, this purchasing power will now be relieved when the government brings in these tax reduction proposals, i.e. with this competitiveness pact, the purchasing power of employees will then be increased by these significant tax reductions. But for this unemployment benefit itself. At the moment we are doing a disservice by teaching young people in Finland to stay home rather than accept work. This is a direct feedback, as far as we are concerned, for example from young people: if they get more money out of it, they will be unemployed rather than take up work. This is the reality of what is happening at the moment, for example for young people. We have third generation unemployed, our unemployment and social exclusion are now inherited — as is the case in Finland today — for a long time, more than in other Nordic countries — so that all the measures that... For example, it would be important for earnings-related workers to be used as pay subsidies, especially for self-employment as an entrepreneur, to take forward what must be taken forward in the negotiations of the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u109	Madam President! It is difficult for Parliament now to get an idea of this future of unemployment security or, above all, of the future of employment policy. Now this proposal is being brought to Parliament, the government is taking this line of cutting. As has already been said in many of these speeches, it is admittedly the impression that the government sees that the unemployed do not want to seek employment or that they are accused of not finding work because we have huge unemployment. I was at the Lauttasaari Days this weekend, and there came to me a smart, academically educated woman to tell me how she got short-term jobs, but they've stopped, and now she's looking for a job — dozens, hundreds of applications — and she can't even get an interview, and she has a really good education. He specifically wanted to send his greetings to Parliament and the government that we should now invest in what is actually the job, in entrepreneurship, in research and development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u110	Madam President! Once again, we are faced with an unintelligent fireworks, when the opposition stresses that cutting unemployment benefit does not create any new jobs. Well, he doesn't. And that is not the point; on the one hand, it is, of course, a question of savings, but, on the other hand, of incentives to work. These same people, who say that cutting unemployment benefit does not create any new jobs, rejoice at the fact that they have become 300 euros in unemployment benefits. Well, how many jobs does it create? None, and yet thousands, if not tens of thousands, of unemployed people have been able to do these jobs. The third group is then these basic income believers, representatives of Andersson and May Aalto and so on. They want to try this. Well, let's try this kind of incentive test for the long-term unemployed. I mean, basic income doesn't create any new jobs, does it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u111	Mr President! I must say that I was disappointed, perhaps a little surprised, that this performance will come here in the Chamber. In fact, I thought that when the Finns changed ministers and Minister Mattila, as a new minister, took responsibility for these matters of unemployment security, the unemployment benefit cut would be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u114	Värderade fru talman! First of all, these tax reductions simply compensate for the loss of earnings of kiky.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u121	Madam President! It is quite clear that the unemployed should not be blamed for their own unemployment. It is even more clear that a person should not be held responsible if it is more profitable for him to be left behind, to stay at home rather than to receive low-paid work. But that is precisely why it makes sense to make reforms that aim to lower the threshold for taking up work, to make it worthwhile to take on a little less paid work, and I see that this is a very good reform in the right direction. It was also interesting that Mr Adlercreutz has just raised the Danish model. It must be borne in mind that the Danish model is a whole in which the protection against dismissal is also significantly weaker, which also means that the employer has a lower threshold for hiring employees who do not necessarily yet have the kind of cv that would convince their recruitment to be a good thing for the employer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u122	Mr President! There is certainly a relationship between the level of social security and people's desire to work for low-paid jobs. In countries where there is no social security at all, everyone is working, whether official jobs or, more often, informal jobs. The EUR 300 safeguard did not increase jobs, but it formalised a lot of the informal economy in this country, and it was a very good reform. It meant that those people who had once done a dark job along with unemployment security were able to do those little jobs up to the official channel.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u125	Mr President! Let's talk about it in plain English. When it is said that the intention is to encourage the taking of work, it is to force the taking of work, and even jobs that are incomparably less than those who do it. During this government, the norm applies to all but the unemployed, whose surveillance and surveillance bureaucracy is increasing. This is an operation. There's no way out. Cut off the unemployed and, in the name of friend capitalism, split up into groups of interests. The government's indebtedness is only accelerating during this government, and at the same time there is room for EUR 130 million to be distributed, of which tens of millions of euros will be spent on pharmacists, lawyers and doctors. The government considers them to be in need in this society, not the low incomes and not the pensioners and not the unemployed. We feel the opposite way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u126	One last speech before the Minister responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u127	Madam President! I was personally disappointed that this year's budget was being drawn up. It did not provide enough employment appropriations, it lacked at least EUR 100 million. And now that you look at this situation, how much people are unemployed and this mass unemployment has only gotten worse all the time, long-term unemployment is increasing, this government proposal that the daily allowance be reduced by 100 days, just as those people would not really want to go to work. The truth is that there is not enough work here for these people and there is no job provision in this country. That is why it would have been much better if the government had increased the employment budget in particular considerably more for employment, so that at least temporary work could have been carried out. This would also have saved these unemployment funds and unemployment contributions, which the state will have to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u128	Secretary Mattila, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u129	Mr President! Thank you for your comments. There were a lot of questions here about employment in general and the possible need for reform of unemployment security. The incentive traps, which are then partly managed by Minister Lindström, can then be returned to these issues. But, of course, what I do tend to do in principle relates specifically to the social safety net in general, which must be maintained. And I do not think that this government is destroying the Nordic welfare society with these measures. The aim of the government's proposal is certainly to create conditions for new jobs, as is the case with this basic proposal, that after a transitional period employment would have improved. Well, then, here in particular, the SDP highlights the fact that the unemployed are particularly penalised. I don't want to think that. I don't want to create that kind of atmosphere. Representative Lindtman: The recession has been long since 2008. It has been said many times before me from this box that this government has the legacy of the previous government. And Mr Andersson: I believe that you will live as you teach. The Left Alliance has chosen its own economic policy line and, of course, you must speak that way. You believe that. Well, then, Mr Adlercreutz, you asked where this study is based. Here, in the government proposal, an estimate has been made at the Ministry of Finance. In addition, there is a link to it, which, I believe, is a source of information. Representative Harakka: I do not in principle regard a Finnish official as a stalker. We can also compare the systems of the Nordic countries in how, for example, a job seeker is obliged to register or so away. I think there is also some variation, and perhaps some things are different in Finland than in other Nordic countries, but let us return to these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u130	Then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u131	Madam President! The Minister is quite right that we are in a long-standing difficult economic situation, and I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber has denied that, the recession has been going on for a long time. It is certainly the case that all sectors of society are required to be moderate and everyone must participate in these efforts, but that is precisely why I am asking: If we are in such a difficult situation, why in just these difficult years can the government afford new tax reductions for high - income pharmacists, lawyers, millions of heirs and forest owners? So now the fact is that this proposal, which is here, cuts off an ordinary wage earner who has become unemployed, up to EUR 5,000 a year, and the money is spent not on deleveraging but on new tax cuts for the benefit of the good. And when we heard here that Mr Zyskowicz believes in employment more in the stick
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u132	Mr President! The Minister is right that the recession has been going on for a long time and I believe that all parties agree that the only way to achieve a balanced state economy is to improve employment. It is also quite true that the Left Alliance is and will continue to speak for a fiscal policy that supports economic growth that is employment-friendly. But what is this motion about? I think Mr Zyskowicz said very well that a earnings-related cut will not create any new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u135	Madam President! Our biggest problem in Finland is the lack of jobs, and we agree on this. That is why the government and the social partners have promoted the Competitiveness Pact, and that is why the government is making tax decisions aimed at promoting economic growth. It is also the case, as Mr Rydman said here, that we should not blame the unemployed if, for example, receiving low-paid work is not profitable and encouraging. It's our decision-makers. Now that it was said here that the cuts in unemployment security will not bring any new jobs, I tried to ask how many new jobs will then bring these EUR 300 protective parts, which you are in favour of. How many? How many new jobs is the so-called basic income that many here support? How many? It's the same thing, isn't it? It is therefore a question of being profitable and encouraging to accept the irregular, low-paid and temporary work that might be available.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u136	Madam President! It is true that the current unemployment benefit system is rigid, passive and even unfair. That is why the system must be reformed, but it must be reformed in a sensible and fair way. That is why I was talking here about, among other things, this cyclically-based approach, to which Mr Roope, President of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, among other things, has referred. The New House has referred many times to this universal system. I do not believe that, in this situation, as Mr Andersson pointed out, cutting the duration and the level would really help. Firstly, how does it reduce the duration and level of employment when there is no work available? This is the problem with the economic cycle. A different kind of situation can work. How do you create savings in both duration and level of these cuts if income support expenditure increases and purchasing power decreases? To Mrs Zyskowicz, I recommend that we have a discussion with your colleague, Juhana Vartiainen, who can tell us what the difference is between employment and jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u138	Madam President! It has to be said that the voice of reason now comes from the left side of the Chamber, and I am referring to this left side. If this is the end of the Myllykoski debate, I regret that when I feel that Mr Zyskowicz is upset that the government, in its own employment programmes, did not abolish servitude, that it is not as an instrument there, that it would be necessary, like free labour, forced labour and the taking of free jobs. I believe that there will certainly be jobs if we do not have to pay any wages. When a representative here earlier said how many people in this Chamber employ him, I believe that quite a few of us are involved in job-creating measures through their own consumption and lifestyles.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u140	Madam President! Representative Myllykoski thought I was sorry that the government, as its own employment medicine, is not proposing servitude to Finland. Perhaps this part of the speech can be put here in the entertainment section. It was because I wanted to draw attention to the inintelligence that the same people — Mr Lindtman, for example, who once again on television this morning said that the reduction in unemployment security will not create any new jobs — these very same people emphasise the excellent solution of this EUR 300 per month. And in part the same people, like many here on the left and in the green, emphasise how excellent the solution is this basic income that is now being tried out, which is in fact just such an incentive test for the long-term unemployed. And yet all of these things are the same: not creating new jobs as such, but strengthening incentives to accept work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u141	Mr President! It may be that now this structure that Zyskowicz is trying to tell us here looks like that behind the theory table, but it's worth going there to live. Should I tell these unemployed people who fall into basic unemployment security after these cuts what happens to them? They are often at the door of the municipality’s livelihood, and it is there that the biggest incentives can be found. And that is the most important difference here, Mr Zyskowicz, is that one of these means, which you mentioned, is a carrot and the other is a stick. We believe in the carrot, and you believe in the stick. If we continue on that road, there should be no unemployment benefit in this country at all. And somehow I understand that Mr Zyskowicz, the representative of the Convention, believes in this line of sticks — it has become clear, the unemployed are being beaten, tax cuts are being given to the good people — but Minister Mattila, it is a great surprise to me that you are now bringing this sort of stick proposal here to Parliament. Is it time to try the carrot? Is it time to try out measures to create genuinely new jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u142	Madam President! The protective part also has the advantage that it improves at that time the family's livelihood, and thus it also has this kind of positive signal to the family's well-being. As has been said here, this proposal will not increase jobs, but it will increase inequalities and create deeper poverty for families. And now that the government is targeting all of these cuts specifically on the families of the unemployed and hence more inequality — it has now been systematically reflected, among other things, in the restriction of the rights of the unemployed children, in the deepening of the poverty of the unemployed — I would now ask the Minister, when you are in your new position: do you have the objective of carrying out an impact assessment now on families with children, which, among other things, does this law affect the welfare of families with children, while the income of parents, unemployed parents is being reduced?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u143	Madam President! I am inclined to think in parallel with Mr Zyskowicz about the importance of basic income for employment. Congressman Myllykoski brought up the word "slavery" here. Perhaps now we are a little away from serfdom, but he added such a humorous quote to it, in my opinion, and I understand that. When it comes to creating jobs, it is a question of this type of thing, which has also been mentioned here: this tax deduction right for forest owners rose here in the speech. It will be able to create real jobs when the timber trade starts. That's when the transport industry gets jobs, the forest industry, the sawmill industry. These are the genuine measures that create and provide jobs for people. In this respect, I believe that the measures taken by the government are successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u144	Mr President! Well, here's the difference. That there is a group of people who are offered more treats, more tax cuts in order to create jobs. And then there is the group of ordinary people, the unemployed, who have already been deprived of half of their income — note. On average, half of the income has been taken away when unemployment benefits are made — and then they are offered a stick, that is to say, it is still being taken away. Well, here's the difference. And I too understand that Mr Zyskowicz is defending him because he is in line with his ideals, and I acknowledge that he is honest here to defend himself. But I, too, wonder how the Finns of Peru can support this line of sticks for ordinary citizens, while forest owners, pharmacists and others are encouraged with thousands of euros in tax returns. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u145	Madam President! Mr Pakkanen's good speech on these benefits for forestry, which create new jobs and mobilise Finnish wood: It really is that if we want work in this country, then we must create the conditions in which jobs are created. And if anyone today imagines that, for example, thinnings will make someone a millionaire, Mr. Heinäluoma can also buy a forest plot. That's what I can arrange with one phone call. You can get into this bliss. 10 euros a mot gets first thinning wood when you can grow and care for 30 years. Talking about the fact that it favours something — it only favours Finnish work, Finnish jobs and domestic raw materials in such a way that we do not import coal or natural gas from abroad or something else. That's what this is all about. Do we want to create jobs by Finnish means or do we trust in imports and debt-taking? Here's the difference, brother, Mr. Representative. It is not a question of giving advantages to some, but of providing Finnish people with work by means of Finnish means, it is the best way. The fact that the debt-taking continues,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u146	Mr President! The debt-taking process is now continuing in the government in which you, Mr Hoskonen, are. You took on more debt for this year than the previous government did — Mr Hoskonen, more debt. And next year you'll be taking on more debt than the last government in its last year, more debt. And why do you take more debt? Because you are distributing it as a tax relief to the population close to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u147	Mr President! I hope that the government parties, especially the Finns of Finland, who, in the run-up to the elections, spoke quite differently from what they are doing today, listened, for example, to what they have just said. It is true that people have made applications, that jobs are simply not created in this way. Even Zyskowicz admits that there will be no jobs. And that is why I, President, could not believe my eyes when I looked at the government budget debate press release: not one employment measure — this is already another budget line — but the only solution is that 'yes, these brutal cuts from the unemployed and employment solutions will be made up of a working group that will come up with further cuts in unemployment security'. Please help me with this policy and these value choices. It is true that you are now engaged in this friend capitalism. You have enough money for tax cuts, for millions of dollars, for a reduction in forest gifts and all sorts of things, but at the same time you are brutally cutting unemployment security. On the one hand, I say that it can also weaken the employment situation, because it is also about the purchasing power of people and, therefore, the spinning of wheels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u148	Madam President! I find it a little strange how often this debate repeats the talk that this is about some kind of cyclical problem. However, when we consider that our financial problems have continued, at least since 2009. Finland is pursuing growth rates in Europe. What was cyclically-dependent is beginning to be over in the rest of Europe, but Finland is dealing with major structural problems, which for many reasons we have not yet had time to correct so far. Fortunately, however, this government finally seems to take these challenges seriously, at least to some extent, and this is one of the reforms that are being made. The central issues of the government are specifically the creation of new jobs, but we also have a major problem of matching with low-paid, low-paid jobs and then with the social security interface. And this creates incentives for taking work at this interface to be more profitable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u149	Mr President! We are certainly all of us of the opinion that work should always be profitable, and in that sense our social security as a whole needs to be refurbished. And that is why we made the 300-euro free portion so that we could make more money out of that job. This is the big difference. You want to create this structure in such a way that the social security system is taken away, which in fact goes from a lower level and becomes that incentive element and then more money comes from work. But we want to make sure that a person can pay his rent with that salary, buy his food, and even his children’s hobbies. The Minister said that we will not resign from the Nordic line here if we make these decisions. But the fact is that Finland is very different from the Nordic active labour policy line. If we look at Sweden, there will be six times as many officials and employment advisers to support the unemployed to find their new job. If we look at Denmark, that's where the money is spent, including
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u150	Two more speeches, first Mr Kontula and Mr Harakka, and then it is the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u151	Madam President! We really have an incentive problem at the interface between fragmentation and unemployment security. The incentive problem is unemployment security bureaucracy, which is completely chaotic, unpredictable, heavy and complex and leads to an unemployed person who dares to take up shrapnel work at the same time taking the risk of losing his livelihood for months to come — at worst for months to come. Mr Zyskowicz, the longest income support application I have ever made was 120 pages. On top of that, the same person made a survey of his shrapnel work each month for unemployment benefit, which was also dozens of pages. Is this not the incentive trap where people actually are? And it's particularly bad, of course, if you're trying to be a self-employed person, not an employee. Then these problems will multiply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u152	Mr President! This is now a delayed response to the Minister. I referred to a plan that would require the unemployed every three months to present five services or active activities. My unemployed friend told me that you can find him at the employment office in December at the earliest. Thousands are in the same situation. So there is no time to help, but suddenly there is control — and how? This will provide private companies with the opportunity to run the unemployment business. In Gogol's novel, the Dead Souls, a fellow bought nonexistent serfs. Today's googolia is that the boys create five non-existent jobs. The difference is that Gogol was satire, but unfortunately this government plan is true, as incredible as it sounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u155	Secretary Mattila, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u156	Mr President! Mr Magpies, it is good that you were more specific, because you did use the word 'cop' to hear me. But then perhaps I will say to Mr Filatov that we have different systems in the Nordic countries in some way in this direction, but otherwise your speech will be full. As a former Minister of Labour, you certainly know the Nordic systems, and in that respect thank you for those words. This presentation now comes as part of the Sipilä Government's programme, and this cane-carrot debate does not really belong to my property in that way. I repeat that the reform of the unemployment benefit system as a whole, the dismantling of the incentive traps and so on, should not belong to one minister's property. It is a matter for the whole government, although there is certainly a lot there on the site of Minister of Labour Lindström. We will come back to that, but I am glad that the basic income test is on the way and that it is progressing to what is currently being achieved, and in that respect the work is also progressing. But then, Mr Kiljunen, what I am sure is completely — and Mrs Kiljunen left — on my property, that is to say, the impact assessment of families with children. We have heard here that this proposal is proceeding at least to that Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. I believe that the wise committee will take such matters into account. But in these respects, greetings will then go forward to the ministers involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u157	One more reply, Mr Aalto — and Mr Jarva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u158	Mr President! Would the Minister of State and the good government consider reforming unemployment security structures instead of cutting the duration and then the level of income security? Mr Rydman spoke very well here earlier on about structural reforms, but Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Rydman, where are all the broad structural reforms? Are they perhaps there in the kiky junta, because the government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, decided to build the entire government's economic policy on a single kiky card. There will now be no structural reforms, the kiky effects will not reach the goal they want, the budget deficit will increase, the debt will increase, and there will soon be such a negative spiral that even Zyskowicz's defences will not help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u159	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz and the Group support both carrots and cane in the right balance in these match problems — I must be honest with you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u160	Mr President! Here I even got confused when I listened to what they pretend to be carrots. I think they're very light carrots. This government does not actually give carrots, it gives a cruel stick, as has been said here
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u163	Mr President! Undoubtedly, there is an example of a very difficult reform in this proposal, but we must remember this whole thing. The Social Democrats have apparently been silent today, perhaps not forgotten, but at least they have been silent about the decision taken in connection with the government's budget debate to implement this Lex Lindström, which is to retire all those over 60 who have been long-term unemployed for at least five years on a one-off basis. I believe that this is a very important moral hand-out for these people who will have very low employment opportunities in the future. At the same time as this is being done, it will also be possible to make better and more flexible use of investments in labour management for younger unemployed people, whose employment opportunities will thus improve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u164	Madam President! The EUR 300 protective part was a carrot from the previous government. This government could have further developed the attractiveness of the carrot part of the EUR 300 protection component by allowing, for example, the persons in the enforcement proceedings to be subjective and, in the case of over-taxation, only to be taxed. In other words, more incentives are being given to tax incentives for the employment of the first foreign worker or, in general, the unemployed under the age of 25 or of the unemployed for 200 days, so to speak, that in the first year there was no need to pay social security contributions at all, in the following year a reduction of 70%, in the third year of 30%. This would have been a cost-neutral option, not a burden on the state economy at all, and it would have worked better than the tax incentives for lawyers, which are being defended here to create jobs, but not direct tax subsidies for capital for employment. It should have been targeted at companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u165	Madam President! Indeed, if we want the long-term unemployed and, in general, the unemployed to work and create new jobs in this country, then we must act in such a way that domestic production takes off. We have to make that happen, because it will gradually create the jobs that we are talking about here in the service sector and in many other sectors. As an example, Esa Halttunen's presentation of the Kite tax model would create a tax experiment in which companies that invest in, for example, productive equipment or increase stocks and employ new labour would be taxed a little later and rationally so that they would not end up in the tax pit that kills the entire company in the first year. This show is real. It's just a description of the situation we've been in. The first good information has come from the forest industry, it has invested in this country. Now we have some good information from Turku Shipyard. We need to create faith that Finnish work pays off. If we're here to argue between ourselves about whether that advantage is good or bad... It is true that every penny and every cent is important, but we have to remember that if we want out of this swamp, we have to do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u166	Mr President! It was quite symbolic that when Mr Zyskowicz was asked to mention the carrot in addition to the stick, he mentioned the carrot in the previous government. They found such active activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u169	Mr President! Fortunately, these tax cuts and tax reliefs are indeed coming for those on low and middle incomes, and even families with children will be helped to make their daily care payments lighter. For example, this was a very important objective for the city centre as early as last spring's presentation. But then on these unemployment security expenditures: These have doubled to more than 5 billion in Finland since 2008. What do you do with this money? Let's get these people out of here. At the moment, unemployment benefit is precisely being changed in the direction that the money that is being paid can be used in the future to support wages and, in particular, to create its own job as a start-up grant. This must also be done on a earnings-related basis, and I really hope that there will be solutions in this regard. We should also see what happens internationally. It is well known that there really is not enough of these services in Finland for unemployed job seekers, and that is why it is precisely with organisations and the private sector that we are now working together to achieve effective results. I think that this is the kind of service they need to get in touch with the unemployed job seeker at last every three months and make a personal plan for his employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u170	Mr President! Representative Aalto was right to see what could really be done to help find jobs and make it easier, especially for those who have been unemployed for a long time, rather than providing a cure for taking up the income of the unemployed. That is what this means: for 400 days it is said that 'Hops, now the daily allowance is here'. Then we come to this idea offered by President Rinte, which is based on using this unemployment benefit to provide employment for people, that you can receive an unemployment benefit bill, a subsidy for the employer, so that the employer can think that he will receive this benefit if he takes the unemployed to work. I think this would be a much more effective drug. It would be a real employment medicine, not that the unemployed are taken away from their daily allowance and then it is thought that it is through which the employer takes up employment when the unemployed are no longer paid any daily allowance at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u171	Mr President! It would be good for Mr Jarva and perhaps other representatives of the centre to now look at this government budget proposal and these tax reduction proposals, because they do not come to the unemployed. There will be a 0.85 per cent cut in Kela benefits for the unemployed, and the indices are also frozen. And these tax cuts for wage earners are also the ones from which the high incomes benefit most of all. But here again to Mr Zyskowicz: when I saw that he nodded when Mr Kontula was here talking about the real incentive traps of our unemployment security, that is, this bureaucracy, and you also mentioned the basis and the protective part itself in a positive tone, i.e. such reforms that break down the incentive traps, what has the previous government promoted in principle, how do you think that this earnings-related cut is in line with these other measures? In practice, this means that more people are moving more quickly into this bureaucracy jungle, i.e. labour market support and municipal income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u172	Congressman Andersson, in this Chamber, it is customary to call others when we speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u173	Madam President! Representative Harakka was appalled that the government will also use private service providers to enhance labour market policies. Indeed, it is absolutely terrible that a private company can also find work for the unemployed and, in fact, get its reward, at least to a large extent, depending on whether it succeeds in employing the unemployed person. Representative Aalto asked if Kikiy juntara was blocking structural reforms. There's a part of it that's blocking. However, after the entry into force of the kiky, for example, local settlements will be restored. Representative Myllykoski drew attention to the people in the enforcement area. This is what the government in its budget line drew attention to and is also looking for solutions for them in order to alleviate the incentive problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u174	Madam President! First of all, Mr Jarva, who has already left, must say from this government's tax line that, even if we forget that these tax reductions do not come to the unemployed, the profile is still such that perhaps ten per month will be left in hand by the local nurse, when the manager will have such a good 500 euros a year. But I must confess to Congressman Zyskowicz. He has persevered here to explain and justify what is behind this proposal. It is the blind belief that by sticking the unemployed people to work. Probably, if this line is continued, then we can reduce the time from 400 to 300 days and beyond. Zyskowicz is right, too, that the assembly has a carrot to offer in addition to a stick. But he forgets to say that carrots go to the most prosperous: pharmacists, lawyers with good income, heirs with millions and forest owners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u175	Let us now continue the list of speakers for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u176	Mr President! According to the Government, this proposal is a key project of the Sipilä Government, one of the objectives of which is to reform unemployment security. It could also have been formulated in such a way that this is one of the many proposals put forward by the Sipilä Government to tighten the conditions for unemployment benefit and to reduce unemployment security. According to the latest employment survey, there are over 370,000 unemployed job seekers in Finland, over 99,000 in employment services, over 127,000 in the long-term unemployed and only 67,000 in the open job market. Thus, there are far from enough open jobs and the share of the long-term unemployed is now higher than in the recession of the 1990s. The proposal to cut earnings-related duration is based on a thinking model where unemployment is caused by the lack of incentives to seek employment or the lack of willingness to work for the unemployed. This is not the case and this analysis is not supported by research data. Above all, Finland suffers from a lack of demand for work. Instead of deploring the position of the unemployed, we must invest in fiscal policies that promote employment and growth, in facilitating self-study, in sufficiency of wage support and in reducing the red tape on unemployment security. The Government's proposal states that the level and duration of unemployment benefit will have an impact on the length of periods of unemployment in the light of research. However, this government ignores the fact found in international research literature that the impact of the level and maximum duration of unemployment benefits on the length of periods of unemployment depends on the cyclical situation. At a time of recession or recession, when the number of job vacancies is low in relation to the number of unemployed job seekers, the reduction in the duration of unemployment benefit is mainly affected by people being forced to apply for other forms of support. This is estimated by many to be the case in Finland. In the case of municipalities, cuts may increase public expenditure as people move from earnings-related to labour market support and income support. In the case of the state, the reduction in earnings-related security will not save much, as labour market support and housing support expenditure will increase if there is no change in the employment situation. By contrast, most of the savings from the cuts are directed to the unemployment insurance fund, not to the state or municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u179	Mr President! As has been said, it is true that the current unemployment benefit system is rigid, partly passive and also unfair. And that is precisely why, as has been said before, the system must be reformed, but that reform must be done in a sensible and fair way. The Greens think that the most sensible thing would be to reform that income security into a cyclically based, staggered and simpler way of not distinguishing people from the type of employment relationship or working hours. This is because we are no longer living in a time when there was a clear line between entrepreneurs and employees and unemployment and employment. Mr President! The government's proposal to reduce the maximum duration of the unemployment allowance period from 500 to 400 days or from 400 to 300 days is only a stick measure in this unemployment situation. Nor does it have to be a fortune-teller to guess that when income security expenditure is saved, the cost of other social security, such as income support, will increase. At the same time, the government is negotiating a new employment package with social partners, the main content of which appears to be a reduction in the level of income security based on the bounce of the unemployed. If the government's objective is to encourage the rapid take-up of work, to reduce periods of unemployment, to reduce structural unemployment and to save public resources, then more sustainable reforms in unemployment protection structures would be needed. I see they are, Mr. Zyskowicz, in the kiky junta. Mr President! One solution for updating the system would be the basic income as proposed by the Greens and not the current watered-down basic income experiment of the government, but it should also be accompanied by a proper update of the earnings-related security model. Shortening the duration of income protection does not provide an incentive to move faster into the labour market if there is no work available. In order for incentives to work even on a principle level, the system should be built on a cyclical basis so that it implements a countercyclical fiscal policy and provides greater security during the recession. This has indeed been suggested, among other things, by Mr Roope Uusitalo, President of the Economic Policy Review Council, in his column of the Keskisuomalainen. It would also be appropriate to reform the earnings security system on the basis of income, so that it would not distinguish people on the basis of the type of employment relationship or working time. This income-based model would improve the chances of taking up work in different roles, such as employees, self-employed persons or as a secondary entrepreneur. The reform could be carried out at the latest in the context of the introduction of the National Incomes Register. The problem with the current system is that the unemployment rate of too many job seekers is prolonged because the rigid system of income security does not encourage people to take up work at the beginning of the unemployment period. It is not a question of the unemployed not wanting to work, but of the fact that the current model guides individuals to less-favoured solutions in the long term. Recruitment should be encouraged during the first three months by a cost-neutral and predictable differentiation of earnings-related security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u180	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Our biggest problem in Finland is that there are not enough jobs, and this is, of course, the result of the fact that we do not have much or at least not enough economic growth. This economic growth, and hence employment, is being promoted through, among other things, a competitiveness pact and tax solutions that the government made in its budget debate. But we also have a problem with encounters. We have tens of thousands of job vacancies at the same time as we have hundreds of thousands of unemployed people. We should not blame a single unemployed person for not accepting the work offered, often low-paid, heavy, perhaps temporary. And we should not blame the individual unemployed for being afraid of bureaucratic traps in which taking temporary work can derail him. It is up to us decision-makers, the government, Parliament, also to remove these incentives traps. Thus, in its budget line, the government set up a working group of officials to remove the incentive traps, with the aim of making new decisions next spring. I don't expect miracles: I have already been involved when Lipponen’s first government apparently set up our country’s first incentive trap team under the leadership of then Minister Arja Alho. That work then started, and it apparently never ends, so now there are no magic tricks to be found. This red tape trap has also been identified, and the government's budget debate also triggered the related reports. Madam President! Now that you can speak more calmly than in that brief reply, I would like to return to this question which, in my opinion, in this Chamber and outside this Chamber there is a lot of intellectual dishonesty. Last time on television this morning, Mr Lindtman repeated and argued that cutting off the unemployed, cutting unemployment benefit, did not create any new jobs. This is true, of course not. The intention is therefore to influence incentives to work, and so I ask you who say that unemployment benefit should not be cut when it does not create any new jobs: How many new jobs will be created by providing the unemployed with a monthly safety component of EUR 300? It didn't create any new jobs. But it created — and good for — thousands of unemployed, or hundreds of thousands in fact, a better incentive to take even temporary, low-paid, part-time work. And even though precise figures cannot be presented, thousands, if not tens of thousands, of unemployed people have done just that, have been better employed than without this contribution. What about this basic income? We have a lot of basic income believers in this room. I am not a fundamental income believer, on the contrary, I think that all parties project their own dreams into the concept of "basic income". But basic income believers, how many jobs will create basic income if I don't talk about Kela researchers and others who then study the results of the basic income experiment? It doesn't create any new jobs. But it creates incentives, according to your thinking, for example, to take different forms of shredding, and in my opinion, too, if a successful experiment is carried out. All these things are about the same thing. In other words, stop the unintelligent question of how many jobs will be created by cutting unemployment benefit, or at the same time ask yourself how many jobs will be created by the 300 euro protection component, or ask yourself how many direct jobs, new jobs, basic incomes will be created. As far as this basic income is concerned, I have already said that I think everyone is projecting their own dreams. Someone believes that it always makes work worthwhile, the other that it eliminates poverty, the third that it eliminates bureaucracy, and everyone believes that this can be done without costing anything more than the current social security. I don't believe in this. If someone's too good to be true, it's usually not true. And as I have said before, even the Tenavat comics expected such a Great Pumpkin, which comes and solves all the problems. What the government is currently experimenting with is not, in my opinion, a basic income. It is actually an incentive test for the long-term unemployed. This basic income of EUR 550 does not replace or combine other forms of social security. On top of it comes housing allowance if necessary, on top of it comes income support if necessary, even child increases in unemployment benefit apparently come, and if this kind of person gets again into earnings-related coverage, then on top of it comes even earnings-related unemployment benefit. And he doesn't pay anything? Experts have said that if this model were to be scaled to the level of the entire population, there would be an additional cost of between EUR 10 and 15 billion. So what is being tried out is that we will have a group of 2000 people who will receive labour market support, which is not called labour market support but basic income, and they will not be required to participate in activation measures by the Employment Office and so on. But what is essential is that this new labour market support, which is called basic income, does not go away even if the person concerned is employed. Then there are the long-term unemployed who, as in the present case, will have to take part in various activation measures at the employment office and whose labour market support will go away if the person concerned becomes employed. So we are trying to see whether people who do not benefit from labour market support when they are in employment will be better employed than those from whom labour market support melts when they are in employment. Although it is the long-term unemployed, hard-to-work people, I can publicly state that I am absolutely certain that the result of the experiment is that the people from whom unemployment benefit does not come are better employed than those from whom unemployment benefit comes. Of course, it is possible to examine the regional or age-related differences between these unemployed or unemployed unemployed people who are not employed, i.e. those who are involved in the basic safety test. This is what we're gonna try. It is not a basic income experiment in my opinion, as I have understood these dreams that are associated with basic income. But, Mr President, that may well be a different matter, and that is something that I am sure will be discussed in this Chamber for a long time at the time when that bill comes in.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u181	Mr President! Although we are having our basic income debates on the second time, I am now going to be provoked when we are provoked, and a few words about the mechanism that supporters of basic income generally expect from basic income. On this point, I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that the experiment that the government is currently planning is not a basic income experiment, but a good experiment in itself, if it is aimed at replacing bureaucracy and control of the unemployed with positive incentives. The biggest promise of basic income, perhaps from the point of view of official gainful employment, does not apply to jobs where employment refers to paid employment. Now, Mr Zyskowicz, listen carefully, you must have asked for an answer ten, twenty times during this debate, and now it would be available here: The basic income promise is not so much related to paid work, but the basic income promise is related to entrepreneurship and self-employment. When you are in today’s unemployment benefit, if you try to start some kind of business, even small-scale business, weave three woolen socks over the year, it will already risk it for your unemployment benefit. And when you don't know whether it's a business or just a hobby or a miscalculation, you won't dare risk the little unemployment benefit because it's your only income to fill the fridge with the basic food you'll be living on for the next month. The basic income makes it possible that when I have a hobby that I like, which I am good at, I can try it if it becomes a secular job for me. And this is a key incentive point where the problem is not how much income comes from what is the ratio of social security or its gainful work in itself, but the red tape and unpredictability, the arbitrary nature of unemployment security. The second promise, which will affect the economy and which could be realised, will be reflected in the right basic income test, relates to public sector expenditure. We have this country full of people who would like to take care of their loved ones at home but who, within the current system, have no chance of doing so, even though it might be both economically sensible and meaningful for these people themselves, if the value added they produce in gainful employment does not correspond to the cost of caring for society through the public sector. And if this happens — no one knows whether this will happen — then we will not only be talking about the income side of the economy, but we will also be talking about the impact of the expenditure side on the basic income, including the plus. With regard to this EUR 300 component of protection, as a former researcher of information work, I would say that its greatest achievement, together with, of course, probably the household allowance, is that it has brought a lot of informal work under official support. Some may say that this means a new job for people who have done those dark jobs before — at least a safer job and a job that does not always have to be afraid of being in some impossible mess. But then the bill of today itself, the one we are here to talk about today. Personally, I am not a great friend of earnings-related benefit schemes. The earnings-related benefit system has led to social security in Finland depending on the socio-economic background of the person. In my ideal society, we would only have earnings-related benefits as a short-term security for change, but we would have adequate social security for decent living, which would be equal for all. In this proposal, however, the reduction of earnings-related pay does not lead to adequate decent social security, but in the opposite direction. The position of a Finnish unemployed person today is particularly poor if he or she is on basic daily allowance. The level of support is insufficient for a decent life. It is also insufficient for you to maintain and develop labour market capacity in such a way as to maintain the hope of re-entering the labour market. The bureaucracy I have already mentioned is complex, heavy and unpredictable, and, above all, unemployment in the wage-earning society means social exclusion. It means that you get to hear constantly negative talk about yourself in the media and even in this hall, how you are told time and again about the famous couch where you just lie. The aim of the proposal is — and this is a direct quote — to ‘encourage the rapid reception of work, reduce periods of unemployment, reduce structural unemployment and save public resources’. Indeed, fear of long-term unemployment in the Finnish system already encourages people to accept work as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, it also increases people's desire to join other categories, such as care-free, sickness allowances and the informal economy, and these flows from unemployment statistics are also significant. On the other hand, there is no evidence that the average length of periods of unemployment would be reduced in a situation where we do not have the kind of labour shortage that could be employed by increasing incentives. If someone who is more likely to be employed in a earnings-related position and thus in a better labour market position is more quickly employed in a less attractive job, that means that someone else, perhaps a basic daily allowance, will not be able to get that job, but will remain in the unemployment card for a little longer. For the same reason it does not reduce structural unemployment, but is likely to increase it, and for the same reason it also pushes people into poverty and marginality. The aim of this is not to pay any more attention to savings, because even the proposal itself does not seriously argue that reducing earnings-related costs would result in savings for the public sector. If we really want to reduce structural unemployment by means of measures targeting the unemployed, we need to invest in the ability of the labour force to regenerate in a situation where the labour market is being reformed, and this is not by whipping, of course, but by means of proper advice, labour and guidance services and by means of a social security system that also allows risk-taking and error at micro level. If we really want to shorten periods of unemployment again, the fastest first aid measure would be to remove obstacles to employment where they actually exist. It is certainly not the point where people spend a hundred days more or less on earnings-related pay, but it is in the fragmentation that is mainly received by the basic allowance, who are precisely afraid of the bureaucracy and various sanctions associated with the loss of unemployment benefit. The extension of the liability period is an old-fashioned reform. It is built on the idea that we have long periods of unemployment, long periods of employment. There's no going back to that world. It's the dinosaur part of this show. Above all, if we want such a people who are willing to invest in building this society, work with joy and seek work, then we must create opportunities for the people to do so. Now the government's policy was sold out on a lazy system abuser. There's nothing new about this. This has been an elite speech long before unemployment benefit was even invented, but it is not based on any research or real life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u182	Mr President! This government advertised that it is breaking standards, but it seems that, when it comes to social security, it actually increases bureaucracy and increases systems that are more difficult to understand. If we think about this surgery that we now have on the table, then unemployment benefit will be three-tier, and the government is also planning a three-monthly review and interrogation which would allow for a reduction in unemployment benefit if, from the point of view of society, the unemployed were not sufficiently active. This is obviously a proposal in the preparatory phase, but I say that at least it does not lead to a better use of society's resources. If it is claimed that it is a means of providing more service to the unemployed, then why does it need that control element, because in most cases, when a person uses the service, it works better if it is a matter of trust and if we look together for those solutions? Denmark is considered to be a country of strict unemployment protection, where the activation obligation is severe. When I have visited several Danish jobcenters and asked them how you will cope with all these sanctions and sanctions, which you have the opportunity to impose, they will look at it with complete amazement and ask them how they will not be used. They are not used because there are enough officials there and there is an adequate relationship of trust between the job seeker and the employment officer, or whatever the title of this person is. And it's about trying to help. The problem with the Finnish system is that the number of our unemployed has increased strongly, but the number of our assistants has not increased, as it were. There are six times as many people in Sweden who will help people find that new job or find a new training path, but at the moment it is difficult for us to become a customer of the te-office, including young people who, of course, would find it even more helpful than the older and older people. But even if we consider the consequences of this cut in unemployment security, it results in more concern and fear of unemployment for many people, which, in most cases, is more likely to paralyze. And what will result from it on the income side? There will be more income support expenditure and more housing support expenditure, and if we weigh these in terms of the fact that we have some people in the system who are not so active in working life, I dare say that this negative part goes further if we weigh the balance. The proposal is not about the efficient use of resources; it is about a cut which is once again directed at unemployment security. I would say that our social security system definitely needs to be dismantled. I am not in favour of the basic income proposals that have been made in this society so far, because I think of them in a reasonably similar way to Mr Zyskowicz, but I am definitely in favour of simplifying our social security system and making it easier for us to move from one status to another, because the problem is that people are sometimes giggling about whether they are with home care or whether they are unemployed or whether they are students or others. And when the government, in its own presentations in the budget debate, thought that even earnings-related unemployment benefit should be used more actively, I warmly support these efforts, but I wonder very much why this activation was not accompanied by an increase in the possibility of self-training. It is possible at the moment, but it is within a very tight sieve, and in fact the decisions of the various offices — due to this shortage of officials and complex bureaucracy — are very different: someone is given the right to study with unemployment benefit in exactly the same situation, someone else on the other side of Finland is not getting it in exactly the same situation. That is why I would also like to see this list of activities made easier for self-training, especially since the budget for labour market training has been cut and more cuts are being made. We know that hundreds of jobs are created and killed every day in Finland, and if we think a little bit further, we know that many, many professions will be destroyed by structural change. Then we should do everything in our power to encourage people to learn a new profession, to apply for additional skills if an old person is missing a piece, and can indeed move from one job to another, from one competence to another, more easily. When the government decided on a basic income experiment, it advertised that people need to get rid of the need for a variety of income transfers. I remember when, among other things, I was with Minister Vehviläinen on television, where he advertised that there are so many benefits in Kela and now we have to get only a few benefits in order to simplify this system — well, there was no coat, there was a tussock. And I think the problem with this tuluskuro is that when you took care of the EUR 300 protective section that if you are a income support customer, that income support will not be cut and the housing allowance will not be cut and unemployment benefit will not be cut immediately, then in this basic government income experiment, which really only affects people who have been unemployed for a long time, the income support cutter or the housing allowance cutter will not have been taken into account, which means that if you happen to be poor, living alone, living on labour market support, you will not benefit much from this reform as an additional money in your own economy unless you make a lot more. On the other hand, if you happen to be happily in a relationship or in the same household with a person who has reasonable income, in which case you will not receive housing allowance or income support, then you will receive all the benefits for yourself. I do not think that this is very fair, and I hope that this will be corrected along the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u183	Mr. Speaker! I regret that I did not receive a reply on time, even though Mr Zyskowicz asked me a direct question. Mr Zyskowicz asked me if it was not good that the private employment business should increase. No, I'll answer when it happens to the te-centres by pulling down and reducing resources. And this was not about helping the unemployed, it was about controlling. After all, the government suggested that the overseer check every 3 months whether there is a 5-day job or the most active activity in that period. After all, this will lead to completely surrealised Gogolistic situations in which fictional bureaucratic performances are invented afterwards. I hope this performance will also remain a fiction. If the government genuinely wants to promote employment and employment, it would help self-employed people who create jobs by combining entrepreneurship and freelance and temporary jobs. But these active citizens are constantly afraid of falling off a level of basic security when the gigs are reduced altogether. This involves total arbitrariness when the Ministry's Code of Conduct, as many as 193 pages, is interpreted in different ways by the various te-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-do offices. I put a written question to Minister Lindström, where I suggested that the affairs of self-employed workers should be centred on a three-to-four te-office where legislation and articles would be available and where experts, officials could genuinely help self-employed workers. I'm an educated person, but I didn't understand the Minister's answer. Or what I thought I understood about it: the point is not to do anything. This is how the active citizens are overcome by arbitrariness. Instead of these genuine measures to increase employment, we have at hand a cut in which the livelihoods of the unemployed are undermined so that, in the spirit of friend capitalism, we can encourage, in this case genuinely encourage, our own reference groups. The 130 million apothecary reduction already brings tens of millions of euros to the most profitable Finns: pharmacists, lawyers, doctors. Once again, income transfer from the lowest income to the most well-paid. Once again, a transfer from those in need to those who do not. What is friend capitalism? In English, the term is "crony capitalism", which means that the friends of political decision-makers get undeserved benefits. It distorts competition, it is the worst enemy of the market economy. The SDP is in favour of a fair competition market economy, not friend capitalism. According to the evening newspaper, the defence of the most comical friend capitalism came from a friend association in the city centre, MTK, who claimed that the reduction in forest gifts brings jobs and investments to Finland worth EUR 2.4 billion. It is therefore twice the size of the investment in Äänekoski. The investment which is the largest investment in the history of the Finnish forest industry. So it will be doubled with this tax advantage, this donation to the government's friends. I guess I'll have to say to this that there is math and then there's stickmatics. If the government believes in this kind of trickery, we'll be fine. This is the way to raise Finland, Finland, the wonderland of friend capitalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u184	Mr President! The representatives, Mr Filatov and Mr Harakka, drew attention to the undisputed problems facing people in our current social security system who are self-employed, freelancers who are not full-time entrepreneurs but also not full-time employees and who sail between these two categories. The situation of these people with regard to social security is absolutely indisputable bureaucratic traps, and I think it is good that these problems are being discussed, and I am sure that representatives, Mr Filatov and Mr Harakka, for example, are prepared to make their own expertise and experience available to the administration when trying to solve these problems. As far as our debate with Mr Haraka is concerned, whether it is bad that the private employment agency is also involved in helping the unemployed to get to work, Mr Harakka says that it is harmful if it is done by driving down the public employment service. Mr Harakka, this is not the case now, on the contrary, I believe that EUR 18 million will be allocated to employment services, both public and private sector employment services, in order to better serve the unemployed so that they can receive more work. And when this need has been on the table every three months to show activity for five days, employment has not been decided. This issue has been on the table, preparations are continuing, but it is above all a question of trying to catch the unemployed and help them to meet the unemployed at least every three months.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u185	I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz for taking note of this extremely important but too little attention in this general debate, namely that although the structure of employment in Finland has not changed much in the last few years, it is the growing number of people who employ themselves. These people should be treated as honourable citizens: people whose civic skills are exactly what today, tomorrow and the digital future require of us. It is therefore completely intolerable that they should suffer from arbitrary behaviour and it is completely incomprehensible that they have not been supported. And I am sure that Mrs Filatov, myself and the whole parliamentary group of the SDP will do everything in their power to create an improvement in social security in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u186	Mr President! Employment cannot be improved by reducing investment in employment management. The weakness of this bill is that it assumes that when unemployment benefits are cut, 9,000 new jobs will be created. There are very thin arguments for this. That is why this legislation, which is now at hand, is a savings law. This is a bit like the whole reform of social security, forgetting that the central objective of social welfare reform is to achieve cuts of 3 billion. It is an impossible equation for services to be improved. It's exactly the same. Then, on the other hand, the Christian Democrats have talked a lot about the fact that these unemployment funds should be taken into active employment in such a way that, for example, the last hundred days of aid could be used in such a way that it could be employed, as if it were with a new job. That would be a reform that we support, but this reform here is merely a austerity reform if it comes at a time when unemployment is really high. I would have expected a different kind of activity from the government, different from what is being done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u187	Mr President! I ran into an example of the entrance exams today. The person was applying to an educational institution because he was forced to apply for unemployment benefit for himself. We have an obligation to apply under 25 years of age. He applied for studies that are most likely not to get in, and then when he took that admission paper in front of him, the probation worker asked if you were actually applying here or not. And he said, "Well, I'm not really picking it up." The operator of the entrance exams directed us to put the entry test paper in stack B, which is the pile that does not end up in further processing. I think that this is an awful good example of what happens when the legislator makes controls that do not have general legitimacy. In order for this to happen, we must have a hall full of people who all feel that the system is not working properly in this respect, it is not fair, it is not fair and it is not rational. And when we talk about Gogol here today, I am afraid that if this type of control, which has no legitimacy, is greatly increased, then we will move step by step towards a system of substitute functions which are designed to fill the letter of the law without any substance and which at the same time undermine the credibility of the system as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u188	Mr President! I was glad to hear from Mrs Zyskowicz that this control system is only at the stage of fiction, and, as I have already said, I hope that it will remain in that bookcase next to Gogol in the satire section so that we can then, in some time, turn our heads in disbelief. But I had the opportunity to speak with Mr Orpo earlier today, and here I am sending everyone the same message as I said to him that cuts and structural reforms are impossible at the same time. Think of it, if the company is at the same time undergoing institutional reform, it is doomed to failure. The structure of employment security could only be genuinely reformed if the aim is not to bring more money into the payment of growing government debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u189	Mr President! With regard to this last comment by Mr Haraka, I would like to say, for the sake of clarity, that when the government decided to enter into a dialogue with the social partners, in relation to certain measures to promote employment, one of which has also been concerned with making earnings-related unemployment protection more encouraging and more rapid in terms of employment, the government has made it quite clear in this context that these measures are not aimed at saving public finances. On the contrary, the government, or at least the Minister of Finance Orpo, speaking, among other things, at the meeting of our parliamentary group in Salo, promised that every euro that could be saved in public finances by changing income-related unemployment security, every euro thus created, would be used to promote employment through other measures, such as the strengthening of active labour market policies or employment administration or the employment of young people. In other words, this process, which will last until September, in which the social partners and the government are working together to find solutions to certain issues that improve employment, is not aimed at making savings in the unemployment benefit system. Well, that's different, then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u190	It seems very reasonable that those much maligned social partners have now accepted the government as partners again, and I very much hope that the discussions will proceed. But this government proposal is now on our table, and it mentions as the basis for saving state resources and resources, it is not over and over. I hope that this dialogue will lead to a more sensible outcome that will allow genuine reform, and also better for the unemployed and for employment than this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u191	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u192	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This is therefore a government proposal to the Parliament to amend the legislation on the provision and reception of international assistance to the Ministry of the Interior. The proposal clarifies the legislation on the provision and reception of international assistance to the Ministry of the Interior in order to enable Finland to fully provide and receive international assistance in the field of police, border guards and rescue. The proposal is closely linked to the Government's proposal for a law on the provision and request of international aid, which proposes to provide for a separate law on the decision-making of the Supreme Government bodies during the spring session of Parliament. This is a Government proposal 72/2016. The proposal is also closely linked to the Government's proposal to amend the Finnish Defence Forces Act, the Regional Supervision Act and the Military Act, which proposes regulation on the participation of the Defence Forces in the provision of international assistance and on the support of the Defence Forces to other Finnish authorities abroad. The laws proposed in the three Government proposals are intended to enter into force simultaneously. The main objective of this Government proposal on the field of activity of the Ministry of the Interior is to make the legislative changes required by the solidarity clause adopted by the Treaty of Lisbon to the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Rescue Act. This proposal proposes changes mainly to the decision-making provisions, to the rules on support provided by public authorities abroad and to the rights and obligations of civil servants in the event of international aid. The guiding principles are that, even in situations of international assistance, the same and clear powers of action are exercised in the same way as in the home country, the existing aid mechanisms are not slowed down, the legislative changes allow Finland to use all existing resources in situations of international assistance and the corresponding provision for other states to provide assistance in Finland. Now, Mr President, I am going to deal with these laws which will bring these changes to bear and, first of all, the law of the police, which contains the most of these changes. The aim of the proposal is to remove legal barriers to the provision and reception of international assistance, so a provision on decision-making would be added to the Police Act, including in situations where there is no legal basis for international assistance, such as EU law or an international agreement. Providing assistance always requires the target country to ask Finland for assistance in the field of police work. In these circumstances, the Ministry of the Interior shall take a decision on the provision or request of assistance falling within the competence of the police. If the threshold of the so-called separate law were exceeded, such as in the case of the solidarity clause, or the use of military force, then the decision to present the Ministry of the Interior will be taken by the General Session of the Government. As far as powers are concerned, in all situations of international assistance, the starting point is that officials from a foreign state who come to Finland always act in accordance with the regulations and instructions of a Finnish police officer and can only use the force that the police officer demonstrates to him under his authority. In other words, the activities are always carried out in the management of a Finnish official and the powers cannot exceed the powers of the police under Finnish law. Similarly, when a Finnish police officer participates in the provision of international assistance abroad, he is subject to the same legislation as in Finland. However, these powers cannot exceed the powers conferred on him by the host State. In addition, the proposal contains provisions aimed at ensuring that the civil and criminal status and other legal status of a Finnish police officer is similar to that of his duties in Finland. The new issue is the provisions enabling other officials to support the police in situations of international assistance. As a rule, the current provisions on official assistance cover only the territory of Finland. The aim was to lay down similar provisions for situations of international assistance. Another authority, such as the Defence Forces and the Border Guard, can provide support to the police to carry out a police mission abroad. Similarly, as in the case of Finland, the support officer would act in accordance with the regulations and instructions of the police officer and within the powers to which the police officer authorises him. The police are also responsible for general management of the situation, for example. In the event of terrorism, such support may also include the use of military force suitable for carrying out a police mission, where the Defence Forces would provide support and Border Guard officials would be able to provide support by means of military equipment. And further, as all the obstacles to legislation were to be removed, a provision would be added to the police law which would allow the Ministry of the Interior to ask another Finnish authority to provide support to carry out a police mission in the event of international assistance without the presence of a Finnish police officer on the ground. In these situations, the aid cannot include the use of force. Mr President, a few words about this border guard: One of the objectives of this bill is to remove obstacles to providing and receiving international assistance in situations such as those covered by the solidarity clause. It is therefore necessary for legislation to take into account situations in which assistance to maintain border security should also be provided or received in the event of a terrorist attack or a natural or man-made accident as referred to in the solidarity clause. It is likely that, under the solidarity clause, border security assistance would be provided to the applicant Member State, coordinated by Frontex. In this case, the action is based on the Frontex Regulation and there are already provisions in the border guards to request and provide such support. However, it is necessary to supplement the Border Guard for situations of solidarity where Frontex would not coordinate the operation or coordinated assistance would not be sufficient and assistance would be provided or requested on a bilateral or multilateral basis. A decision on border security assistance requested or given by Finland in the event of a solidarity clause would be taken in accordance with the law on the provision and request of international assistance, in which case the Government will decide on the presentation of this matter by the Ministry of the Interior. In addition to decision-making, border guards would, on the one hand, provide for the powers of a visiting official providing border security assistance in Finland and the powers of a Finnish border guard when providing border security assistance in another Member State of the European Union. As in the case of operations coordinated by Frontex, the mandate for providing border security assistance under the solidarity clause would be based on the Schengen Borders Code, which is a common European law, and there would be no need for bilateral or multilateral agreements on competences. In Finland, the powers of an official of another Member State providing border security assistance would be in accordance with the instructions of a Finnish official in accordance with the Schengen Borders Code. The use of the necessary force to carry out the task would be possible in the presence of a Finnish official and, as requested by Finland, if the Member State of dispatch had given consent to the use of the force. Border security assistance to Finland could only be provided by a border guard within the meaning of the Schengen Borders Code. In another Member State, the powers of the Finnish Border Guard providing border security assistance would be equivalent to those of an operation coordinated by Frontex, i.e. tasks under the Schengen Borders Code as determined by the host Member State if they were not restricted by the host country. A Finnish border guard could also use the necessary border guard force in accordance with the national law of the host Member State and possibly restricted. The law would also include a clause on support for the Border Guard in operations coordinated by Frontex and in border security operations under the solidarity clause. In practice, the aid could refer to equipment, material or expert assistance. In addition, articles on decision-making and powers would be added to the Border Guard when the Border Guard is involved in Prüm and Atlas cooperation. Under the current legislation, the police are already entitled to receive assistance from the Border Guard to combat or suspend a terrorist offence, including the use of force by military equipment in the Finnish maritime area or the economic zone. Border Guard surface vessels are armed with military equipment that the Border Guard can use for regional surveillance tasks, military defence tasks and when providing police assistance in the Finnish maritime area and the economic zone to prevent or suspend a terrorist offence. The most serious acts of terrorism may be carried out by means of instruments that may require military equipment to combat them. This proposal proposes to regulate that the police should also have the right to receive military aid from the Border Guard to prevent and suspend offences committed for terrorist purposes in the maritime or economic zones of another EU Member State. These changes are intended to implement the solidarity of the EU countries as enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, in particular in the fight against terrorism. The proposal would enable another EU Member State to help prevent and suspend terrorist acts. The effects of terrorism are of a cross-border nature and the fight against terrorism is a responsibility of all states. At the request of another Member State, the Border Guard could provide military support to the police in the marine and economic zone of another EU Member State for counter-terrorism activities based on EU legislation or an international agreement binding on Finland. Such a situation may arise, for example, in anti-terrorism situations involving special forces in cooperation with Atlas, where the special intervention units of the police and the Border Guard would operate in the sea area of another Member State, relying on the Border Guard's guard ship with the aim of preventing and taking over a hijacked ship. The granting of support with force would be decided by the Government's general session on the basis of the Border Guard if it were not in accordance with the law on the provision and request of international assistance. Then there are the amendments to the Rescue Act: The Rescue Act has a long tradition of providing international rescue aid. To date, pursuant to Article 38 of the Rescue Act, rescue aid has been sent to other countries. There is also a provision in the Act on the reception of international assistance under the Rescue Act to Finland. The amendments proposed in the Government proposal add a definition of rescue aid to the Rescue Act. This will take account of recent changes in the nature of international rescue operations. Instead of more traditional rescue operations, the vast majority of international rescue operations are now in support of humanitarian support measures. More material assistance is also provided. As an example of the last few years, I can mention the material aid sent to facilitate Greece's entry situation and the respiratory protection sent to the Ebola region of West Africa. The definition would also take into account the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Union Civil Protection Mechanism, which entered into force from the beginning of 2014. This Decision covers primarily the protection of human beings, including the environment and property, including cultural heritage, in the event of natural and man-made disasters occurring both within and outside the Union, including environmental disasters, marine pollution and acute health emergencies. The decision to grant or request international civil protection assistance would be taken by the Ministry of the Interior. Finally, a brief summary and impact assessment of this package as a whole: This proposal does not alter the boundaries of the Finnish authorities in the case of international aid. For example, even abroad, the fight against terrorism is a police task for the authorities sent by Finland. The proposal also allows for activities similar to the national assistance situation to be carried out abroad. To this end, the proposal contains draft regulations on the support of the Finnish authorities to another Finnish authority abroad. A substantial amendment to the current situation is that the Defence Forces could provide support to the police with military weapons outside Finland's territory when it comes to assistance in the fight against terrorism at the request of a foreign state. In the past, the support of the Defence Forces to the police abroad was limited to expertise and material. Similarly, the Border Guard could provide military support to the police in counter-terrorism situations in maritime areas of other EU countries. The starting point of the proposal is that the powers of both Finnish and foreign authorities, including the use of force, are clearly defined. In addition, the purpose of the proposal is to ensure that the legal status of a Finnish official is not weaker in the international assistance function than in the domestic service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u193	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u194	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to provide for the eligibility requirements of senior police officers' posts in the Law on Police Administration in so far as they are not provided for in the State Civil Service Act and the appointment of posts. The eligibility requirements of the senior police chief, the chief police officer of the Police Administration, the head of the National Protection Police, the head of the Central Criminal Police and the local police would be modified to better meet the requirements of the senior management posts of the State Administration, while taking into account the specific characteristics of the police administration. A few words about the background of the changes. The Constitutional Committee and the Attorney General's Office have stated in their opinions that it would be justified to provide for the eligibility and appointment of senior police officers at legal level. The proposed amendment will bring the legal status of the Supreme Police Command into line with the views expressed in the opinions of the Constitutional Committee and the Attorney General's Office. The eligibility criteria and the powers of appointment of police officers are currently largely laid down at the level of the regulations. The changes presented are also the result of a number of organisational reforms in the police administration, the reform of police training, changes in the titles of higher education degrees and changes in the personnel management guidelines of the state administration. As a whole, the eligibility criteria for police posts have been laid down at a number of different times and a large number of them. They are also different in terms of content and, for example, the definition of familiarity used in the eligibility criteria has been expressed in a number of different ways. There are also numerous definitions of qualifications. And what are the proposed changes? In the case of senior police officers, a specific qualification requirement, i.e. a bachelor's degree in law and a higher university degree in addition to a police officer's degree, would be dropped and a higher university degree would be required in the future. In those posts linked to an operational police operation, familiarity with the police would be required. A separate qualification requirement has not been defined in the qualifications requirements of senior police officers in other Nordic countries. The qualifications of the police chief of the police administration, the head of the central criminal police and the chief of the local police would be, according to the proposal, a higher university degree, the versatile experience required for the task, as well as practical leadership skills and leadership experience, as well as familiarity with the police function. The qualifications of the Chief of Protection Police are the same, except for the familiarity with the police action. No amendments are proposed to the provisions on the powers of appointment of the Supreme Police Command. The Government’s proposal is based on the report of the working group and is linked to a package to reform the eligibility criteria for the assigned posts of the police administration. The eligibility criteria for police posts laid down at the level of the regulation are to be amended after the adoption of the law. The eligibility requirement for the Rector of the Police College of Applied Sciences and other policemen’s posts would continue to be laid down by Government Decree. The aim is to ensure that the eligibility criteria for police posts laid down at the level of law and regulation form a coherent whole, taking into account, on the one hand, the eligibility requirements of the senior management of the rest of the country, the changed qualifications and organisational reforms. A knowledge of the police function would be an eligibility requirement in the office of the police administration, starting with the senior police officer, in those posts whose management focuses on the link with operational police activities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u195	Mr President! The proposal proposes to add to the Law on Police Administration the provisions on the eligibility and appointment of senior police officers. The eligibility criteria for certain police posts and the appointment of certain posts would in future be laid down at the legal level, as the Minister has just said, at the moment, mainly at the level of the regulations. Policemen’s posts are listed in the Government Decree on the Police and are subject to eligibility criteria in the Police Administration Regulation. Only Finnish nationals may be appointed to designated public posts or posts. In addition, the general criteria for appointment to public office are skills, ability and tested citizenship. There has been a lot of room for interpretation in the police, depending on the person appointing the posts. I've seen very special appointment decisions. The nature of the role of the head of the police department has changed from the management role of a smaller agency to the management role of a large organisation. In this way, he emphasises strategic management, operational and financial management, stakeholder cooperation and personnel management. Unfortunately, there is no need for police training at all on the basis of his education. At the moment, we may have a vice judge as chief of police or, as lieutenant, a commercial master who has never been on a police mission. Then the discussion of police duties with the field police is on a weak footing and credibility may be shaken. In my opinion, police officers' courses are not sufficiently appreciated either. However, the college class teaches you how to run a police activity. At the moment, a police officer can, after a basic police degree, complete church-related studies at the university and after a kandi degree, apply for the post of lieutenant. All credit for the studies of the candidature, master and doctor, but the duties of police officers and police chiefs should be based on at least an undergraduate of the police and knowledge of police services in those posts whose management focuses on the connection with operational police activities. That is something that this government proposal is partly improving, and I therefore welcome it. This is the case with all other activities. If there is no training to be carried out, then there is also no credibility here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u196	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-06-ps-78.u197	Mr President! It is therefore a proposal from the Government to the Parliament to amend the Security Clearing House Act and Article 20a of the Law on International Information Security Obligations. The aim of the proposal is to amend the Security Clearance Act so that the Protection Police becomes the sole competent authority in the Ministry of the Interior’s administrative field for the preparation of security clearances. This change is intended to improve the quality of safety reports, harmonise the procedure and develop skills. Pursuant to the law in force, the Police Board assigned tasks related to the conduct of limited security clearances to the Protection Police from the beginning of 2016. At the same time, under the Civil Service Act, eight persons from the local police were transferred to the Protection Police to carry out these tasks. The administrative status of the protection police has changed and is no longer under the authority of the Police Government. For this reason, the centralisation of security clearances for the protection police should now be governed by law. In addition, it is proposed to amend the Safety Clearance Act so that the exemption from the payment of the security clearance would no longer apply to the application of the Ministry of the Interior’s administrative authority or educational institution. Therefore, the authorities and educational establishments operating in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior would, in principle, also be obliged to pay for safety clearance as provided for in the Security Clearance Act. The amendment does not apply to safety reports made by the Chief Staff. The obligation to pay would cover the costs of drawing up a safety report. This is not a draft budget bill, nor is it accompanied by transfers of appropriations, nor does the Government’s proposal give rise to additional financial needs for the Ministry of the Interior’s administrative budget or for the municipal budget. In addition, a technical amendment to the International Safety Obligations Act is proposed. - Thank you.
