ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 22/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the meeting on 23 November 2016. A detailed examination of the third amending budget is now under way. I would ask for amendments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 10/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 24 November 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u3	Mr President! I suggest that you take one. Section 6 of the draft law deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u4	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u5	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Heli Järvinen, has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u6	Mr President! I propose that the entry into force provision be adopted in accordance with objection 1 as amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u7	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u8	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Heli Järvinen, has proposed that the entry into force rule be adopted in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u9	Mr President! I suggest two. Article 9 of the draft law is deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u10	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u11	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Heli Järvinen, has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u12	Mr President! I propose that the entry into force provision be adopted in accordance with objection 1 as amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u13	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u14	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Mr Heli Järvinen, has proposed that the entry into force rule be adopted in accordance with objection 1
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u15	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u16	Thank you, Mr President. — In other words, we are dealing with a law relating to EU fisheries policy, which involves the national implementation of fishing quotas, i.e. the distribution of fishing quotas between professional fishermen in mainland Finland. The key is that the EU fisheries policy is in line with ICES recommendations to achieve a sustainable level of fishing and fishing. The committee therefore stresses in a number of points in its report that the EU's annual fishing quotas for Finland must not be exceeded. That is why the committee has made an amendment, among other things, to the temporary quotas that can be used when negotiations on the allocation of quotas between mainland Finland and Åland are under way. The quotas allocated to fishermen are based on catch history, and the second key change made by the committee is to take account of the fishermen who have just begun, so that they are not put at a disadvantage. Mr President! The state of cod stocks in the Baltic Sea is weak, and in this law quotas apply to herring, sprat and salmon. The committee considered very thoroughly the conditions and possibilities for professional fishing, and it is noted, among other things, that the allocation of quotas to commercial fishermen can also in future increase the willingness of representatives of the fishing industry to set up a producer organisation for herring in Finland, for example. The International Institute for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) has stated in its advice that mixed fishing remains a threat to weak salmon stocks, in particular in the Baltic main basin. The recovery of weak salmon stocks will require long-term action, such as adequate fishing restrictions in the sea, especially in the Baltic main basin and in estuaries and river basins. It is essential to revive
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u17	Mr President! As Mr Karimäki mentioned above, it is important that changes have been made to the proposal in committee. One particular point that I consider particularly important is that it is not possible for some fishermen or fishing companies to become so dominant that they control the whole of the fishing industry. Therefore, prices for consumers can also be better assessed and the potential of fishing as an industry and the diversity of coastal fishing can be maintained. It is very important that it has now been possible to resolve the dispute with Åland. I think that is essential. It is never good to go to court, but it is now possible to agree that we will respect Åland's autonomy, and if there are disagreements about these quotas, then we will have a ready model of how we will proceed. On the other hand, it is particularly important that this should enable us to get domestic fish to consumers, and in that sense the proposal is good and in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u18	Mr President! It is important to take good care of fish stocks, and when it comes to fish and fish stocks, I can also make a good connection with it to thank the government for making a significant effort to build salmon. We have a number of rivers where the salmon have not been able to rise, and I would like to thank the government of our country and Minister Tiilikainen very much that these salmon are now being made. We have good examples: Highkoski, which was done just now, has produced good results. That financing decision and the decision to support it were actually taken during the time of Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Jari Koskinen of the United States, and now Minister Tiilikainen was there to open it, and the first salmon have risen from there. These are important for maintaining our fish stocks. One thing that I am sure will have to think about is the effect of the fact that fishing fees are falling below the budget. Of course, the reason for this is that the previous government wanted to exempt pensioners from fishing fees, which is certainly a good solution for them not to pay this fishing fee. But now those profits have fallen, and it will inevitably be seen in some way also on the fishing side, and this difference may have to be narrowed down in some other way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u19	Mr President! Just to say, where does this term of "freedom" come from, it was not extended to pensioners who had never had one before. If someone was released then, if he was never in prison, then I'll just ask Heinos. That view itself is that the previous government did not liberalise and Parliament did not take a decision on the basis of it, but that the situation was maintained in that case. I do not want to go into this debate on 'the past in my house and elsewhere who has done what'. As far as fishing is concerned, there has been a policy in Finland, fish stocks have evolved, and I think it is particularly important at this point that this river and flow move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u20	Mr President! Indeed, it is quite right to thank the government for starting to implement the strategy for the fisheries route and for investing in these fisheries in its government programme. That is a good start, but of course we know that it would be good to have more funding for it so that it can be done effectively. It is not only important from the point of view of the conservation of fish, in particular the protection of salmon fish, but also very important from a regional economic point of view. Often the social benefits of increased tourism income are much more significant than the potential benefits of having a small power plant. Of course, the government can be thanked for not having understood not to open the law on protection, which at some point also flashed on the government's lists. But then there was a retreat, and that was the right thing to do. Thank you for that. As far as the present proposal is concerned, it is easy to agree with this report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry insofar as we need to secure access to domestic fish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u21	Mr President! Representative Heinonen raised the Government's top project, the implementation of the fish road strategy, and it is important that the government has this top project and funding for it, but on the other hand the government has also reduced funding for the fishing routes elsewhere, which means that this funding is also, in a way, a plus minus zero category of fish. It would also be important to involve hydroelectric power stations in the promotion, construction and financing of fisheries roads more strongly, and it is important that projects can be subject to fishing road obligations when permits are under review. But what is really regrettable is that hydroelectric licences are permanent and therefore there is no possibility of imposing these obligations on old licences, and this should be changed by legislation. In his speech, Mrs Myllykoski raised the issue of promoting the consumption of domestic fish, and this is also the case in this committee's report. I am therefore surprised that the government wants to cut half of the fishing insurance system, that is to say, the only form of aid we have for professional fishing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-25-ps-121.u22	Mr President! Now I could blame Mr. Karimäki for reading my mind. I would just like to point this out, however, that when the debate here has been a little on the basis of this proposal and this report, it must be borne in mind that the government is doing good and that it is easy for the committee to agree with these good decisions. But we will certainly be discussing in this Chamber how, on the one hand, our government's actions are undermining the availability of domestic fish to consumers and the better chance of fishing. But what is good about this proposal and the report before us is what Mr Karimäki also said: we in this report, and the government in its proposal, have just opened up the path and the opportunity for new fishermen and fishermen to come fishing. I have to thank the government for that.
