ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 February 2016. In the debate, Antero Laukkanen, supported by Laura Huhtasaari, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u3	Madam President! The world is facing unprecedented challenges. The humanitarian emergency is the biggest since World War II. The crises are dragging on. In January, almost ten times as many people came to Europe for security compared to last year's January. The number of women and children is increasing — now one in three is a child. Development policy and development cooperation are an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. They can contribute to stability, prosperity and security in developing countries and conflict areas. It is the stability of the world and the interests of Finland. Of course, there are conflicts where traditional development cooperation is almost impossible to do and humanitarian aid is only a patch. A current example of this is the situation in Syria, where a sustainable solution can only be achieved through a diplomatic solution. The situation in Syria is an example of how the various tools of the development toolbox are needed: humanitarian aid, mediation and, hopefully, reconstruction and development cooperation will support and complement each other in the future. The Government has now outlined the guidelines for Finland's development policy. It was important to do this quickly, because both the national resources available and the international environment have been undergoing a major change. Madam President! I would like to highlight three factors affecting resources and the operating environment. Firstly, during the autumn, the UN adopted three historic decisions on the objectives of the coming decades: Agenda 2030, i.e. all countries of the world are guided by the Sustainable Development Goals and Action Plan, a binding climate agreement and a consensus on the financing of sustainable development. Secondly, as part of central government adjustment measures, large savings were also made in development cooperation appropriations. The present report will provide the necessary renewed guidelines for the future allocation and use of development funds. Thirdly, the acute and unprecedented refugee crisis and the humanitarian crisis have forced us to react quickly in order to help those in greatest distress. At the same time, many Finns have woken up to the fact that earlier crises seem distant to us are reflected in Finland. Public opinion, coffee tables, including here in Parliament are discussing how we can best help those in need, how we can prevent crises in the future, how we can help people build their own future so that they do not have to go towards Europe in the hope of a better future. The development policy toolkit is a key tool for Finland’s foreign and security policy influence. We have a number of ways to influence whether it is funding the activities of immigrant organisations in Somalia, which supports maternity clinics and maternity clinics and the organisation of education for village midwives and health workers across the country, or the involvement of the tax administration in agreeing on OECD international rules of play or providing Finnish clean technology solutions for World Bank projects to improve water and sanitation services. With the report, Finland’s development policy takes into account the essential content of recent UN decisions: we need to think in a new way, we need to find new resources, and we need to work more and more together across traditional silos, so that the objectives set, the ambitious objectives, can be achieved and achieved. Planning for the coming years will be based on this report, and when resources are smaller, it is increasingly important to see where they are targeted and how they are used as efficiently as possible. Madam President! In development policy, we focus our resources on a few clear priorities that rely on the principles and competence of Finnish society, interest our partners and take into account the new UN objectives. We will focus in particular on four areas: strengthening women's and girls' rights and status; developing their own economies to boost jobs, livelihoods and well-being; strengthening the democratic and functional capacity of societies, including fiscal capacity; and improving food security, access to water and energy and the sustainable use of natural resources. Improving the position of women and girls has long been a central part of Finland’s international profile, but it deserves even greater attention. Gender equality is one of the objectives of sustainable development and a key enabler of development. The Government will prioritise support for women's and girls' education and basic services. We are investing in women's participation in political and economic activities and in decision-making about themselves. Our partners in this work are the various actors in Finnish society, the partner countries and in particular the three key UN organisations UN Women, UNFPA and UNICEF. We also have a strong influence on other organisations and international financial institutions, such as the World Bank, to take into account the rights of girls and women in all their work. Another main idea in the government's policy is that sustainable growth and well-being in developing countries will not be achieved without economic life, jobs and the development of livelihoods. We want to support developing countries in their goal of getting along with their own income. Sustainable development in developing countries requires, above all, jobs, livelihoods, predictable business environments — people’s ability to influence and plan their own future. The government has taken a leading, reforming line here. First of all, Finland participates in international efforts to mobilise sustainable investment in developing countries during the Government term. The investment thus made can be a lever for other investments, multiplying the resources allocated to developing countries. We will start directing these resources by strengthening Finnfund's funding this year. In the coming years, there will be other channels for this work that we are currently working on. Secondly, the Government encourages Finnish companies to provide developing countries and international development actors with their expertise and innovative solutions. We are also reforming the forms of aid financed by development cooperation to better respond to the needs of developing countries. At the same time, we take better care of Team Finland services for Finnish companies in the developing country business. Thirdly, corporate responsibility will be further developed in cooperation with companies, organisations and public authorities. It is in the interest of all actors that businesses also operate responsibly in developing countries. Finland has been a pioneer here: among the 100 most responsible companies in the world, there are as many as five Finnish companies, and it is more than in other Nordic countries. Finland is also the fifth country that has drawn up its own national action plan on the basis of UN guidelines. Our third priority, functioning societies, is very topical. Democratic decision-making and effective public administration, as well as respect for human rights, will contribute to stability. Finland is a world leader not only in the functioning of society but also in taxation — and I am not referring here to the level of taxation but also to the way in which tax collection is organised. We are helping developing countries to develop their fiscal capacity so that they can better finance their public services and develop their societies through their own tax revenues. We are also promoting equal political influence for citizens, with the aim of achieving societies with good governance, a functioning judiciary, adequate public services, free civil society and genuine freedom of expression. We also place emphasis on the global challenges of food security, access to energy and water, the use of natural resources and climate change in development policy. In this context, Agenda 2030 contains a number of objectives. As a country of clean technology and bioeconomy, Finland has a great deal to offer in areas such as active, environmentally sustainable and climate-smart energy solutions. Madam President! We are focusing our support on the least developed and fragile countries in particular. The report commits to ensuring that resources are allocated to poorer countries. In addition, we will target more aid to the regions of origin and transit of refugees. Work with partner countries is long-term and based on country programmes to be updated on the basis of the report. Bilateral partner countries will be targeted at Somalia, Ethiopia, Myanmar or Burma, as well as regions affected by the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. Somalia, for example, is supported in order to increase stability in the country and thus prevent international terrorism. Cooperation with other partner countries such as Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, Afghanistan, Nepal will continue, and the development of some countries will allow for a shift in the focus of cooperation towards support for the private sector and its conditions. One good example of this is Zambia, where economic development is already well under way. Finland also supports Ukraine, the Palestinian territories, the region of the Middle East and North Africa, Eritrea, the countries of Central Asia, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and Vietnam. And in the latter Vietnam, traditional gift aid will end in 2018. However, alongside long-term development policy, it is also important to be able to respond to rapid needs and situations. Sometimes a small, well-thought-out contribution to the peace process, for example, may bring great positive results. In the case of humanitarian aid, lightning speed is of paramount importance. An example of this is Finland’s humanitarian aid and development aid to Syria and its neighbouring regions, which will amount to more than EUR 107 million since 2011. As I said at the outset, the humanitarian emergency in the world is the greatest since World War II. This is also reflected in the need for humanitarian aid. The UN's call for emergency aid last year was record, almost $20 billion. Only 52% of it was financed. For this year, the call for emergency aid is once again a record $20.1 billion. It is very important that Finland continues to allocate a significant part of its actual development cooperation budget to humanitarian aid. We are also working to ensure that humanitarian aid, mediation, reconstruction and development cooperation support and complement each other. Madam President! In the midst of all the reforms, we need to remind ourselves of what will not change. We adhere to the fundamental values and principles of Finland. The long-term objectives of Finland’s development policy remain the promotion of human rights, the eradication of extreme poverty and the reduction of poverty and inequality. We will continue to act on the basis of human rights. In all our activities, we support the rights of children and vulnerable people, particularly disabled people, and promote gender equality. We can no longer think that development cooperation is the responsibility of a small circle dedicated to the cause. We need the expertise of the entire Finnish society to work towards sustainable development and climate sustainability. In this respect, the role of civil society is particularly important. Free and diverse civil society is a fundamental pillar of a democratic and just society, and this dimension is strengthened by Finnish organisations in their partner countries. The diversity and competence of the Finnish organisation field is a great thing, and we will continue to support the activities of Finnish organisations, with emphasis on the multi-annual programmes of partner organisations. In addition to the involvement of organisations and enterprises and the various sectors of central government, it is important that universities, research institutes and parliamentary parties, among others, take part in developing knowledge and societies in developing countries through their own channels and in finding solutions to global development issues. Mr President! Finally: At the end of the last parliamentary term, Parliament discussed the effectiveness and consistency of Finland’s development policy on the basis of a Government report. At that time, Parliament required an independent external evaluation of Finland’s development cooperation and an analysis of how the activities will be reformed. This report now responds to Parliament's request and also takes into account the recommendations of the independent evaluation that was completed last summer on the development of operations. I am pleased to note that development policy and development cooperation and its future are of increasing interest. This has also been reflected in a lively social debate on the impact of development policy on the situation of developing countries and whether Finland is doing the right thing. I think it is important that it is discussed in depth and regularly here in Parliament. In this parliamentary term, the Government will, after this report, submit to Parliament a report on the implementation of the guidelines and the results of Finland's development policy in late 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u4	The next round of group talks will be opened by Paloniemi, the representative of the parliamentary group in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u5	Mr President! Development policy is an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Finland’s expertise and resources contribute to reducing extreme poverty and promoting sustainable development in the world. The number of people living in extreme poverty has been halved over the last 20 years, but especially wars and conflicts are challenging positive developments. They force people to be refugees and make it difficult to build societies. The need for humanitarian aid in the world has multiplied in recent years. Finland also allocates a significant proportion of its development cooperation funds to humanitarian aid. Over the past year, the difficult conditions in developing countries, the Syrian war and other serious conflicts in Europe's neighbourhood have come before us in a new and concrete way as a stream of asylum seekers. Refugees and international migration to Europe are not a sustainable solution. We must try to help and influence the circumstances in the countries of origin so that people do not have to travel with their lives in defiance of one continent to another. Finland will increase support for the countries of origin of refugees and asylum seekers in order to strengthen the conditions for peace, human rights and livelihoods. Humanitarian aid, mediation, reconstruction and development cooperation must support and complement each other in order to achieve the best possible effectiveness. Comprehensive support in cooperation with different actors is also an important means of reducing the attractiveness of extremism. Mr President! Finland aligns its policies with the agreed UN 2030 Agenda. The report presents the priorities guiding our development cooperation, which the Central Parliamentary Group considers to be highly justified. Strengthening the rights and status of women and girls is a long-term priority in Finland. Finland supports the work of actors that affect gender equality and the know-how and opportunities of women and girls. Food security and the availability of water and energy, which the centre has put at the forefront of development policy, are also one of our priorities. Adequate nutrition is the lifeblood of human life. Agricultural production remains the key sector of development in the poorest countries. Finland’s third priority is to strengthen the democratic and functional capacity of societies. Good governance is needed if aid is to serve not only the interests of the elite but all citizens, both aid and development. It is also important that Finland increases its investment in the development of economic governance and tax capacity. In addition to good governance, tax revenues play a key role in eliminating inequalities. Finland also aims to strengthen civil societies in developing countries. Free and diverse civil society highlights the citizens' perspective and tackles the shortcomings. Mr President! The world needs one billion jobs in order to find work, especially for the huge age groups of young people. There is also a need for better quality training in order to provide businesses with the right kind of workforce. We therefore need decent jobs. Finland supports the development of the developing countries' own economy and the private sector. It essentially involves the involvement of the domestic private sector. The Central Parliamentary Group welcomes the fact that the Government has taken steps to strengthen the private sector's capacity for development cooperation. We are strengthening the instruments for private sector inclusion that many other modern countries have been making good use of for a long time. Finnfund, for example, makes it possible to respond to major development challenges in the form of environmental and energy projects, for example, by increasing local work and livelihood. Electricity shortages, for example, are one of the worst obstacles to development in Africa. In some countries solar or wind power has become the best and cheapest way to bring light to the cottages, sound to the radios and water to the fields. It is only positive that Finnish companies have been at the forefront of the development of renewable energy and are now important technology suppliers for projects in this field. Development aid will not forever be the same, but must respond to world change. It makes no sense to contrast traditional development cooperation with development cooperation for trade, investment and employment. They must be seen as mutually supportive in the big picture of development policy. Mr President! It is important that development policy and cooperation receive as broad support as possible in government, parliament, civil society and more generally among Finns. The Central Parliamentary Group also stresses that policy coherence does not only apply to development policy, but it is important that the national and Agenda 2030 objectives are fully taken into account in the functioning of all our administrative sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u6	Madam President! The Finns have long been concerned about Finland's development cooperation. In the Government negotiations, the reform of development policy was one of the most important goals of the Finns Party. We have called for greater effectiveness in development cooperation through more efficient spending. We are promoting pioneering thinking, the aim of which is to strengthen the independent economy and society of developing countries' own development aid. The fruits of this thinking can now be read in the current development policy report, which really puts Finland’s development aid into new faith. The basis for the report can be found in the Government Programme. It noted that the effectiveness of development policy will be improved, and this is the core message of this development policy report. The Development Policy Report records that development cooperation is being carried out with greater ambition, based on Finland’s own competence areas. Here you can see the handprint of the Finns. Another thing that we Finns are pleased about in the report on development policy is that improving the position of women and girls is being raised as the main development policy objective of the government. The promotion of the role of women is important in the interests of democracy and economic development, among other things. The training of women and girls and their active participation in the labour market and political decision-making will contribute to the well-being of families, curb population growth and speed up the prosperity of societies. This cannot be overemphasized. Finnish non-governmental organisations engage in transparent and effective development cooperation. Many have long local expertise, which makes it possible for action to have an impact at grassroots level and the money to be spent effectively on real local needs. When we strive for effective development cooperation, this expertise must be fostered and cuts must be targeted at those forms of work whose effectiveness is difficult to monitor. The money spent on development cooperation must be spent effectively. Madam President! True Finns consider it important that the government invests a relatively large proportion of humanitarian aid, despite the cuts in development aid. Development aid can contribute to the living conditions of the countries of origin of refugees and asylum seekers and thus prevent emigration and refugees. By our actions, we strive to prevent people from running away or changing in the hope of a better life from their own countries. Humanitarian aid is targeted at those who have the greatest need for our help. In this way, the government will be able to influence immigration to Finland in a preventive way. Like the other Nordic countries, Finland will strengthen the private sector's contribution to the implementation of development cooperation. Finnish companies are creating opportunities to invest in the markets of developing countries. These responsible investments create jobs in developing countries. Instead of trying to buy a good conscience by blindly dividing money, the Finns of Peru want to help developing countries so that they can get out of everlasting helpable status and, in the long run, be responsible for their own well - being. Madam President! Finally, I would like to highlight one important priority in Finland's renewed development policy. The tax system and tax base of developing countries will be strengthened with Finnish efforts. It is important to reduce the capital outflow from developing countries. Developing countries cannot continue to live on the mercy of developed countries; instead, they urgently need their own tax revenues in order to achieve a balanced development of their societies. This is also an essential and integral part of the fight against corruption. Throughout the positive development policy report, Finland aims to be a more active and responsible development policy actor: Finland wants to ensure the effectiveness of development policy and its own objectives. International arenas and indigenous development work are increasingly contributing to the emergence of developing countries on their own feet. In the view of the True Finns, less money can produce more effective and sensible development aid. Despite the decline in economic resources, a result has been reached, in which Finland now has a clear vision for development policy for the first time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u7	Mr President! We live in a world where uncertainty grows day by day. This speech could also be used to list various crises and threats, starting with climate change and migration. One could also focus on worrying about Finland’s own situation and smaller resources. These are facts, but farting in them doesn't change anything. We have to look ahead, and that is exactly what this report will do. The Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party would like to thank Minister Toivakka, who has quickly brought the Government's development policy guidelines to Parliament for the first time in the form of a report. This will increase transparency and the long-term sustainability of development policy. Although we had to reduce the amount of our support, Finland's goal in the longer term was to achieve the 0.7% of GDP recommended by the UN. This is also outlined in the Government Programme, and the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party is committed to this. Through various channels, Finland continues to spend around EUR 700 million on development cooperation each year. This is equivalent, for example, to German and French levels. The report is closed in time. It strongly relies on the two major international agreements reached last year: the Paris Climate Agreement and the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development for 2030. It will also take account of the acute refugee crisis by allocating more resources to countries of origin, transit and reception of refugees. This shows that development policy is an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy to build a safer world. On the other hand, Finland has a number of other tools in its foreign policy that can contribute to the development policy objectives. Mr President! In the age of smaller resources, priorities and priorities are growing in importance. I am sure that everyone will agree that aid must go in the right direction, not for inefficient projects, let alone for the wrong use. Surgery always hurts, but it is also an opportunity to look at the operation and, if necessary, to make it more effective. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party considers the four priorities already defined in the Government Programme as a good basis for Finland's work. Strengthening the economies of developing countries, jobs and the development of the economy are an essential prerequisite for countries to be able to assume responsibility for their own development in the future. Similarly, democracy, the justice system and free media, as well as civil society, are prerequisites for development and peace. It is also important to steer development from the outset towards a sustainable career in food security and access to water and energy. Special thanks are due to enhance the position of women and girls as a priority in Finland's development policy. Several studies and studies have shown that strengthening the role, rights and opportunities for participation of women and girls has also strengthened society as a whole and contributed to its development. Similarly, there are indications that peace will not be sustainable unless women are involved in its construction. As stated in the report, Finland, as a country of high equality, has the credibility and the capacity to support its partners in this respect. Another important point is the global trend towards closer links between development cooperation and trade. Many developing countries want more trade with them rather than just aid. Investment and trade create jobs and increase well-being locally, i.e. help countries support themselves. Finnish companies have also begun to open up opportunities in developing countries' markets, where there is a demand for our expertise in cleantech or health technology, for example. The combination of development aid and economic interests is not a zero-sum game, but the key word is responsibility. Through Finnfund, for example, Finland can promote responsible investments by responsible companies. Mr President! We have succeeded in moving with more and more partner countries from rather one-sided aid to more multidimensional cooperation, where the share of gift aid is only a fraction. This has happened particularly in Vietnam, but also in the future in Kenya and Zambia. These are encouraging examples and tell us that our help makes a difference. In order to maximise the effectiveness of aid and cooperation, it must also be carefully assessed. It is therefore important that at the end of the parliamentary term the Minister has promised to bring a report to Parliament on the implementation and results of development policy. The Coalition Party considers that the present report, along with its policies, provides a good basis for an effective and effective development policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u8	Mr President! Last week, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon appealed to our common humanity to see the common challenges of humanity and to help our neighbors living in fear and deprivation. Today we are discussing Finland's role as a part of humanity. It is good that the government is following the previous government and bringing its development policy into Parliament as a report. This is also in line with the wishes expressed in the Socialist Group to have the government's global policy and the implementation of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals discussed in the plenary room. Mr President! The parliamentary group of the SDP wishes to provide both positive and corrective feedback on the report. Firstly, we want to acknowledge that the report sees development policy as a natural part of Finland's foreign and security policy. Contacts with human rights, security and the economy and Finland's international status have been well identified. Active development policy is part of the Nordic model. The second rose should be reported on the focus choices that represent the long line of Finnish development policy. They also reflect the Sustainable Development Goals agreed at the UN last year. These include improving the position of women and girls, reducing poverty by promoting employment, strengthening a peaceful and democratic society in fragile countries and sustainable use of natural resources. The development of the private sector, the strengthening of the state tax base and food security are also included. Thirdly, it is good that the Government promises Parliament a report on the implementation of this report at the end of 2018. It is good to monitor the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals also in Parliament. Mr President! Finland’s development policy can continue to be presented internationally. In addition to a good paper, however, there is a need for a political will to achieve the objectives, which in fact involves a lack of credibility in the government's global policy. Words are right, but actions do not all hit the same point. One of the main credibility tests of the current government is related to the management of the migration crisis. The main message of the government has been that a sustainable solution can be achieved by addressing the root causes of migration and by strengthening the stable development of the countries of origin. The credibility of this message is severely affected by the government cutting almost half of the funds allocated to actual development cooperation. For example, the lack of humanitarian aid and the lack of resources in refugee camps are directly linked to the increase in migration. So the government makes extensive cuts of more than 40% in development cooperation, which no other country has undertaken in a much more difficult economic situation than Finland. It would therefore have been expected that the report would also have opened up the allocation of development cooperation resources to, for example, UN organisations and development banks. Our first proposal for a correction relates to financing. The SDP Parliamentary Group suggests that the Government re-evaluates the spending limits for development cooperation budget cuts in the spring debate and restores some of the cuts to the spending limits. This would be a sign that the government's budget line lives in time. This could also mitigate the negative effects of 43% cuts in NGOs' development cooperation. The second measure that we propose to the government relates to the objective of strengthening the tax base of developing countries. The fight against tax evasion is a key element of sustainable development in both the north and the south. Global inequality is a growing problem, such as the fact that the richest percentage of the world’s population owns as much as the remaining 99% of the total. We therefore need a fairer distribution of income and measures to curb tax evasion and illegal capital flows. During the last parliamentary term, the first government action programme against international tax evasion was adopted. It would be important for the government to bring the programme daily and bring it to Parliament. This will provide us with an answer as to how Finland intends to contribute consistently during this parliamentary term to tackling international tax evasion in the EU and the UN as well as in other international arenas. Our third proposal relates to the definition of CSR. The Government is directing development cooperation funds more and more through Finnish companies. ( President MariaLohela : now going well beyond the border. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u11	Madam President! Afro-American writer Maya Angelouta freely quotes: "Courage is the most important virtue of mankind. Without courage, man has no ability to carry out any other virtue." Courage begins with the ability to see the distress of another person and also to reprove and offer help. Human rights are the lifeblood of sustainable development, the beginning and root of it. It ensures equal opportunities for every person to move his or her own life forward. How and where do I live? You want me to start a family? What do I want to study and how far? Do I recognize myself as an influencer, a changer, or a new inventor? Do I work for someone else or do I become an entrepreneur? What is my sustainable relationship with the environment and natural resources? Under the leadership of the Green Development Minister last year, a historic and human rights-based development policy programme was set up to support these objectives. The aim of poverty eradication, sustainable development and the fight against climate change is to secure the conditions for a good life for both present and future generations throughout the world. Madam President! The present report shows the problem with the current situation. Changes in development policy priorities and radical and significant changes in financing are the main obstacle to long-term and effective development cooperation, which is also strongly called for by the government itself. The report continues to set the objective of reducing poverty and inequality and to recognise and recognise human rights-based principles. However, the programme itself creates at least two shadows for the achievement of these values and objectives: The first of these is funding. Substantial cuts in development cooperation funds make the toolbox considerably narrower and weaken the effectiveness and effectiveness of the work we do. The current measures will cut off many advanced development paths, which will take years to reassemble. We lose expertise and expertise as well as capital already invested in development. The government has cut 43% of non-governmental organisations. This seriously undermines the ability of organisations to continue their activities, in particular with regard to the main themes of the Government Programme's development cooperation, such as improving the role of women and girls, supporting democracy and stable development. The same applies to the government's important emphasis on the most fragile countries, where the role of organisations is indispensable. At the same time, the government's official objective is to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of development cooperation in these areas. This is a contradiction. Madam President! The second shadow is a significant emphasis on exports. The report has a strong will to bring companies into development cooperation and emerging markets. The success of the private sector is an essential part of the building of well-being and a sustainable society, but it alone is not enough to bring progress to everyone. We've got to do better than that. How do we create economic growth, entrepreneurship and development, which is based on the environment and its people, their rights, skills and strengths? What is the role of the private sector in developing markets in relation to the adequacy of natural resources, sustainable democracy, a secure rule of law and the implementation of human rights? It is the duty of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure that all development actors achieve development results on a human rights basis, but the report does not set the conditions for evaluation and monitoring of the work. Madam President! Under the auspices of the UN, the Sustainable Development Goals were established in the autumn, which will guide the development of all countries until 2030. Targets are a huge step forward towards a better world, but young people are poorly represented. Today, there is a larger generation of young people in the world than ever before, and we hope that Finland will be at the forefront of raising the issue of global youth policy. Indeed, the prerequisite and key to achieving all the goals lies in young people's courage to challenge the existing system and we are in power and to create new ones. We have the opportunity to grow up generations who see that their own well-being and good life are inseparable from the well-being of fellow people and the vitality of the environment and the continued existence of life on earth. Madam President! In Finland, the Sustainable Development Task Force is run by the Prime Minister. This is excellent and certainly does not happen in all countries. But what does this authoritative capital mean in concrete terms? At the Paris climate conference, an historic agreement was reached to halt climate change. It is important that Finland shoulders its share of the growing responsibility. However, we must ensure that the increase in climate finance is not out of development cooperation funds. Cutting off development cooperation is a choice of values. It is a detachment from the idea we share that we are globally linked to one another. We cannot escape or shut ourselves out of the need and need of another. It is still possible to make a value selection and change direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u12	Mr President! We live in a global world. What happens on the other side of the earth also affects our lives. Despite current economic problems, Finland is one of the richest countries in the world. It is therefore strange that the government feels that Finland cannot afford to help the world’s poor and needy. Such a message is a huge cut in development funds. The report on development policy is mainly good text. The problem, however, is the conflict between words and actions. At the same time as the government says it is seeking to increase the development budget to 0.7% of gross domestic product, it cuts about 40% of the resources allocated to the task. The government is making an historic major cut in development funding during a time when its need is more evident as a result of crises and increased refugee status than it has been for a long time. It is dishonest to insist on closing borders, saying that refugees should be helped in the countries of origin, while massive cuts in development cooperation are being made. Mr President! The only problem with the government's development policy is not a massive cut in funding, but also the irrational way in which cuts are implemented. A large cutter is targeted at development cooperation carried out by non-governmental organisations. The organisations have hoped that the cuts would be carried out in a back-loaded way, thus achieving the same savings with smaller problems. However, this constructive proposal was not good enough for the government, and the cuts will be carried out in full immediately, leading to some of the results being lost in the sand and the money that has already been spent. Another absurdity related to development funding is Finnfund’s massive capital increases. The Board of Directors has decided to increase the capital of Finnfund, which provides development funding, from a business-driven perspective, more than it has requested. Finnfund does important work, and private sector involvement is needed in development efforts, but it cannot replace the work of organisations. In particular, the work of organisations is of great importance in the most fragile countries and in the fields of education and social welfare and health. The Committee on Foreign Affairs showed wisdom when it presented its budget statement that some of Finnfund's capital increases should be directed towards filling the development funding cut for the organisations. However, the unanimous opinion of the Committee of Experts was not acceptable to the government. Mr President! The priorities chosen in the Development Policy Report are heading in the right direction and it is good that the government continues with the model of human rights-based development cooperation. It is good that improving the position of girls and women is at the heart of Finnish policy. The emphasis on the position of people with disabilities is also the right priority. Training girls is the key to a better future. Against this background, it is contradictory for the government to cut out a large part of the funding for UN Women's Organisation (UN Women's Organisation). The contradiction between words and actions is also present in the fact that the report speaks of the importance of corporate responsibility in development, but at the same time the government cuts funding for Finnwatch, who investigates the responsibility of Finnish companies. No other entity in Finland does similar work and similar information. Apparently, the government that thrives in the EK’s löykämmar does not want things to be brought out to the public in the face of irresponsible companies. That's the message from Finnwatch's major financial cut. The Development Policy Report rightly states that world trade structures affect the position of developing countries and their ability to tax is an essential development issue. Finland has valuable tax expertise to provide to developing countries. The global tax haven economy keeps developing countries squatting. More capital is being fled from developing countries than from development efforts. The best development policy will therefore have an impact on putting a stop to the tax haven economy and tax leakages. A fair trade policy is also essential. Hopefully, this report will be read by the whole government and all ministries and action will be taken, as the government's efforts to prevent tax evasion and aggressive tax planning and to close tax havens have not yet been assured. Finally, some people think that development cooperation is a waste of money and ask why Finland should donate money to the rest of the world. As a rich country, Finland has a duty to help. Development cooperation can also be justified in the interests of Finland. Successful development efforts will curb global problems and refugees, and the relationships established through development cooperation will benefit our economy. It is also good to remember history: only half a century ago Finland was the recipient of development funding itself. Never will you know, because we, the donor, will be the recipient of aid, and then I certainly hope that the world will feel solidarity and solidarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u13	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! When reading the report, it is not difficult to agree with most of the formulations used. The goal must be sustainable development, development policy wants to promote equality and strengthen the rights and opportunities of all women and girls, we want to strengthen developing countries' own conditions for the development of trade and the economy, and Finland invests in development cooperation, where Finnish expertise plays a special role. A more thorough, perhaps technical, study of the text shows that the report is full of words such as 'confirm', 'add' and 'develop'. Is the government perhaps adding money to development cooperation? No, no, no. The report is well-intentioned but unfortunately built on submerged sand, because there is no money to carry out all this good. On page 9 there is a sentence that defines the line most strongly: "In the near term, Finland will have to implement development cooperation with less resources and less human resources." In its alternative budget presented in November, the Swedish Parliamentary Group has shown that the massive cuts that Finland will make this year and this period in the development budget would not have to be made if the right weightings were applied. Without increasing the budget deficit, we proposed EUR 250 million more for development aid than the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u14	Madam President! The Government's report on Finland's development policy is very contradictory. It describes Finland’s lofty goals from many different angles and highlights how Finland bears responsibility for world poverty and at the same time cuts about 40% of the money that should be used to achieve them. The cuts from non-governmental organisations without any adjustment period are particularly reprehensible. The largest cuts in euro are directed towards multilateral cooperation. General support will be cut by almost half from the United Nations Organisation for Gender Equality, precisely from this Women's Organisation, the Population Fund, the Children's Fund. Other UN organisations, such as UNEP, the environment programme, the development programme, the WHO, FAO and the ILO, are going completely unsupported, i.e. eight organisations. The cuts proposed for country and regional development cooperation are also large, and almost all cooperation within it is being reduced. As a point on which the funding of mediation work is still being cut, the report highlights the role and activities of these organisations in Finland as an integral part of development cooperation. The conflict is so obvious that the reader has to ask himself how on earth the objectives of this report can be fulfilled. I don't think the right hand knows what the left is doing. Over the decades, Finland has built one of the most functional development cooperation models in the world. Until two years ago, according to the OECD's assessment, Finland was credited with respect for developing countries' own priorities, flexibility and results-orientedness. Finland was considered a practical and responsible operator. Now this working model is being abandoned. Why, it's the right question. Mr President! Finland’s development cooperation is undergoing perhaps the most important change in the focus of history. The Government's guidelines are shifting development cooperation from its inner circle to its outer circle, where funding is transferred from Finnish non-governmental organisations to financial actors in the form of venture capital and additional money for EU-level actors. The human rights-based approach is moving towards a development policy that focuses on the importance of the private sector. The Christian Democratic Parliament considers this change to be an irresponsible policy for increasing world poverty and inequality. A diverse field of actors has always been the strength of our development cooperation. Here we Christian Democrats want to highlight the role of Finnish non-governmental organisations in particular. Non-governmental organisations represent the best know-how and implementation of Finnish development cooperation. It is a long-term and goal-oriented activity, precisely where the need is greatest. It is cost-effective, based on knowledge, skills and long-term experience over more than 60 years. May I remind you that governments change, ministers change, even officials change, but these NGOs continue to work generation after generation. It is estimated that the flow of money from developing countries to our prosperous countries is multiple compared to our development aid to them. There is no certainty as to the accuracy of the billion, but it is clear that Finland's development policy priorities, such as the promotion of human rights and democracy and the reduction of inequalities, support the stability of our international environment as well. The Christian Democratic Parliament does not consider it sensible to change the direction and focus of the government in development cooperation, but calls for a broad debate and ever stronger support for development cooperation by non-governmental organisations, while also enabling us to develop instruments such as Finnfund. The budget for development cooperation must be raised as quickly as possible to the level of commitments made by Finland, 0.7 per cent of GDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u15	If you're willing to go to the debatt, I'm going to ask representatives to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u16	Madam President! There is absolutely no reason for confrontation between the various forms of development cooperation. It is very good that the report recognises that the increase in prosperity in developing countries will not happen without economics, jobs and the development of livelihoods. The world is currently talking about Impact WASH and Impact Business, which means the big coming of value-based business. Sustainable solutions are a core business. Starting from the development challenges of the target country, solutions will be sought through the development of new innovations. It is now important that we have the right kind of support and sufficient resources for companies like this. For example, Tekes, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Finnfund, Finnpartnership have programs that can support the export of sustainable solutions. We only have one planet, and we cannot afford to exclude companies from the work of promoting sustainable development and reducing poverty. Development cooperation must be much more than charity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u17	Madam President! First of all, the report on development policy is carried out by the Government at all. That is an excellent thing. This is the first time that the Council of State has ever done so. align its development policy in this form. It tells us that development policy in Finland is becoming more ambitious, more deliberate, more rational.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u18	Mr President! Indeed, for the first time now, by Minister Toivaka, these development policy guidelines are being brought here for debate in Parliament in the way they have now been brought, Mr Toivakka spoke in his presentation on this cooperation over traditional silos, and I believe that this is one of the key issues in which we can achieve these objectives, as all speakers have said, it is very important that work is now being done to promote these objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u19	Mr President! I hope that the representatives of the government parties will now check the facts. This is the second report on development policy that will be brought to Parliament. The previous one was imported in May 2014. Mr President! A third of the wealth of rich Africans is invested in tax havens, which causes the African nations to lose some $14 billion annually in tax revenue. This money could be used to finance a health system that would save the lives of 4 million children and to hire enough teachers in African schools to allow every African child to attend school. These examples reflect the magnitude of the tax avoidance problem. It is absolutely essential to strengthen the income base of developing countries by preventing tax evasion. During the last parliamentary term, Finland was at the forefront of the fight against tax evasion, and we made a programme to combat international tax evasion. Minister Toivakka, are you prepared to update that programme and bring it to Parliament so that we know what Finland knows?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u20	Madam President! The report highly highlights the importance of these things as if more permanent values and principles when talking about long-term development cooperation — perhaps values that would carry over the reigns. I would have asked the Minister how this direction could be strengthened and continued, because it is probably time for a shared understanding that the more we have in terms of change of priorities or in terms of funding, as it were, major changes, it undermines its effectiveness and effectiveness. One possible model for this would be, for example, the development cooperation law in Belgium and France, which would, as it were, lay down certain guiding principles on which development cooperation is to be carried out, and of course the government in power would always be able to put its own emphasis on it. How does the Minister see this model or some alternative? How will it be ensured that, over the years of government, certain recognised priorities will live and continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u21	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about this increase in business-driven development cooperation. The contribution to development cannot solve all the problems. It is clear that we need a private sector to be involved. Strengthening the economies of developing countries is the key to sustainable development, and especially in the green technology and environmental sectors, companies play an important role, but not all companies can do, and that development policy cannot count on them. The opposition between traditional development cooperation and business-led development cooperation is futile, but in this situation it is difficult to avoid it when the organisations are cut by more than 40% at the same time as Finnfund's financial increases are as massive as they are now. I'm sure more money is worth putting in, but is this the right share? I would also like to renew the question raised by Mr Toivola, namely, what does the Minister think of the development cooperation law recommended by the KPT?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u22	Mr President! In the debate on refugees and asylum, it is also said at the mouth of the representatives of the government parties that development cooperation money should be used where misery, poverty and refugeeism arise, in the preventive sense. That is precisely why it is quite perverse for the government to cut precisely the money that would have this preventive effect. Minister, I would like to ask what this is based on. Why is this blatant contradiction between words and actions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u23	Madam President! We are now going back decades in development cooperation, and I think that is unnecessary. Finland's gross national income share of development cooperation appropriations will fall from about 0.6% this year to 0.38. We fall from the goals of all the Nordic countries, and even though everyone knows our economic situation, no one in the world thinks Finland is such a poor country that we do not have enough help for all those who need it the most. This high-quality and effective development cooperation is based on long-term and goal-oriented action. A number of projects and programmes were interrupted by significant budget cuts last year and by changes in the allocation. Rapid changes in direction undermine mutual trust, affect Finland’s international reputation and jeopardise the results already achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u24	Now to Minister Toivaka, five minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u25	Madam President! Thank you for this debate at this stage, and thank you for your good feedback. Thank you, too, for the ideas of development. I am extremely pleased that these priorities contained in our report actually received praise across the party boundaries from all groups. I see for ourselves that in the form of these priorities we have now been able to focus on our activities, to crystallise the work that we will be doing in the future. This is very important, not only in this changing international situation, as the crises are prolonged, but also because we have had to make these cuts, which have been highly criticised here. I understand this criticism of the surgeries. I too am sorry that we have to do them, but they have already been done, and now it is time to look ahead, that is, how we go from now on, how we spend the EUR 700 million this year and so that they help precisely those people who are in the greatest need and in the middle. That is what I have to say in this speech: Finland's development cooperation has been very high-quality and good-quality in the past. It's got a lot of commendation. And now it is intended that, with this report, this good work will continue. Our expertise is valued, and Finland is, overall, a highly valued international player. I think our reputation is good. These individual surgeries have not devoured our reputation. Now there are a few things that have come up in these speeches. Firstly, what is the reason for this situation now, when the refugee situation and crises are being prolonged in such an extremely difficult way, for us to cut back on development aid and precisely those regions? I would, however, like to say that it is with this line that we are now making a target, for example, for Syria and the regions of Iraq, for the neighbouring regions. We did it last year. Last year, for example, EUR 34 million was committed to Syria and the neighbouring regions, compared with EUR 15 million in January. So the need to be born will of course be made with such decisions more. This year too, we have decided to focus and certainly not to do so with the need which I hope will not come. We all hope that the crisis in Syria in some time frame will be resolved quickly, because this humanitarian aid there is only a Band-Aid and long-term help for those people in the middle of the crisis is that the crisis will be resolved. In other words, Finland provides assistance through many UN organisations, the World Food Organisation, the UN Refugee Agency — they are our partners — in the midst of a crisis. In addition, taxation was raised here. Thank you for that debate. Mr Urplainen has made a worthy point of this, and I know that this work has been done. This too is something that the Foreign Minister, for example, has now invested in. We have been appointed as an expert on tax matters alone to see what we can do in this area, because this is a well-known fact that this development of tax systems — that developing countries are better able to collect taxes — is in fact of enormous importance. A mere 1% increase in tax collection in developing countries would be more than traditional development aid in the world combined. It would be of enormous importance for the country to be able, for example, to improve the services of its own citizens. It's important work. But then it was praised and criticised that the private sector was involved in this report. I would like to say that this private sector involvement does not replace traditional development aid. Both are needed, they complement each other. There are countries, such as Syria at the moment, where private sector investments are certainly not possible, but then there are countries where they are really needed. It is important that we involve the private sector, just as in other Nordic countries, for example. Our admiration for Norway, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands is much longer in how their private sector is involved in exporting their expertise and the necessary sustainable development technology to these countries and thereby improving people's lives. On the other hand, one thing that I did not think was sufficiently raised in these speeches: what is one of the reasons for migration? The fact that people have no hope of a better life or jobs. The most efficient job creation is the private sector, and this message comes from developing countries very strongly. So I am grateful for this debate, but I hope, however, that we will not only set these issues against each other because of these cuts, but we will see in a variety of ways that all kinds of help is needed depending on the level of development of the country and also on the situation that people have there. I would also like to correct: it was said here — whether the Christian Democrats were speaking or not —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u26	Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u27	Mr President! Development policy is very important and, unfortunately, as we live in a world that is increasingly in crisis, its role will become even more important. At the same time, we have climate change and the growth of the world's population, which in 20 years' time will mean that we will need much more food, much more water, much more energy. And these are the real major challenges for the future that must be addressed not only by curbing climate change but also by increasing global food security and water and energy. The issue of refugees is a serious problem today, and much of it is also a question of the fact that there are people in need of life who need to be helped, even now in Syria. But in Iraq, for example, the United States was fighting for ten years, and now we know what tracks have been made there. I'm just asking what responsibility the United States is now assuming that ten years of war were fought there in Iraq. The great powers could take more responsibility than simply go to war.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u28	Mr President! The Government's report is a step in the right direction, and the Minister has rightly presented it to us here. In particular, investment in sustainable development must be favoured. We need to share our expertise. Businesses must also act responsibly in developing countries, and humanitarian aid will continue to be massive despite cuts. It is particularly important that global responsibility is exercised through this humanitarian aid. It is the most critical help needed. Secondly, it is an excellent observation that the development of the private sector is precisely what creates well-being. This applies in the same way as in the developing countries. On the other hand, a reduction in corruption and a strong tax base are necessary to enable the public sector to provide fair and efficient services. Finally, on this question of financing, which is now an eternity issue in all matters in this parliamentary term, this sector cannot possibly escape cuts, but, just like other sectors,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u29	Madam President! In all my group speeches, I thought I could identify thanks for this general approach to development policy, and I think it is good because this is based on the objective analysis, on the recommendations that we should make in a new way, so that we can have a more productive development policy and its genuine effects. It is sad that the NGOs, the companies and even Finnfund are being discredited for its activities. I should remind you that Finnfund operates in the most difficult countries. Responsibility is an integral part of all investment decisions, their preparation and, in particular, monitoring. We have many good examples from Ethiopia, Kenya, Uruguay, when people in difficult circumstances, women, children who have had a better life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u30	Mr President! The criticism of Finnfund is related to the fact that Finnfund was more capitalised than Finnfund itself understood to ask and, at the same time, 43 per cent of the average income was cut from NGOs, as well as 70 per cent from UN organisations. But, Mr President, the Minister made a good point about this 1% tax increase, its impact on the development of the economies of these developing countries. In my opinion, it was very good that this was identified, as Mrs Urpilainen raised in her speech and many others. However, I would like to ask whether the government intends this first programme, in relation to this international tax evasion, now in some way to update it and bring it here to Parliament. However, it took Finland as the leading country in international tax evasion to be missing at the time, and I would like it to be brought here now, updated to Parliament, and thus again to be allowed to continue on this line of development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u31	Mr President! Yes, this contradiction between words and actions here creates a travesty of government policy that is truly sad for all the hundreds of thousands of people in developing countries who are left without the support of the Finnish state. The education resources of girls are diminishing, and even humanitarian aid, even though it is being invested in, lacks such a long-term perspective as this reconstruction and other funding around it, peace building and the prevention of the breakdown of fragile states weakens. When I myself have received a lot of feedback from organisations in the UN system where I know a lot of people, I would also like to say to the Minister when the minister here says that there has been no criticism at the meetings: As a former minister, I can tell you that it is not said that way either, it is said across the beach, it is spoken to researchers, it is spoken to diplomats. I have received a lot of feedback about how Finland can drive down the basic funding of the UN Environment Agency at a time when it starts coordinating environmental objectives in the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This gives the impression that Finland withdraws from managing the major economic transformation, which is a big issue that poverty
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u32	Mr President! In addition to reducing the volume of development cooperation, it is clear that the Government's aim is to shift the focus of Finnish development cooperation from work through NGOs and UN organisations to such a business-driven development cooperation model, and these are quite significant changes in Finnish development policy. I would like to ask the Minister: how does the government intend to ensure that the key principles, such as transparency, accountability and performance, which have been the subject of very much development work in the field of development cooperation over the last few years, are now being implemented in this new business-driven model? Unfortunately, in this report, corporate responsibility, for example, has not been dealt with or defined much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u33	Värderade fru talman! Det är nog ett dystert kapritel i Finlands biståndspolitiska history som regeringen just nu skriver. Det är tragiskt att man — ganska nonchalant — bara constaterar att nuräcker inte pengarna. Själva texten är bra.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u34	Madam President! The representative of Estonia has said very well that these development policy objectives and objectives are something that I am sure everyone in this Chamber will be able to share, and that is not the problem with the objectives and objectives, but with the way in which this development policy is being pursued at the moment, that is to say in these huge cuts, which will then water down these good objectives and objectives. Mr Terho here said that humanitarian aid and investment in it are important. However, it was precisely humanitarian aid that the government cut 30%. I know that Mr Terho is not one of them, but last spring, your party's candidates were properly campaigned for election about how violently they will cut development cooperation and the money will be taken away from leopard hats. This type of phrases was actually used there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u35	Mr President! It is, of course, true that our party has also shown an economic sense of responsibility in this policy sector in the election campaign, but I would point out that there is no contradiction between actions and words in government policy. The government is committed to making cuts to a certain extent throughout the economy, and everything else works within the framework of these bodies, including development aid — not only development aid, but also development aid. So we are acting in complete consistency on this issue and as we have planned and promised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u36	Mr President! After all, this conflict of words and actions has been mentioned in several speeches in this debate and, of course, it would have been to be expected and perhaps a little more honest in this report to describe what these cuts mean and how large they are, for example, in relation to UN organisations. Yes, it must be said that in this debate too it should be remembered that this saving or cutting is still not synonymous with reform, as has often been heard from the Minister in this context. Then this amazement with regard to the management of this refugee crisis: while representatives of the government parties say that these people need to be helped in the surrounding areas, UN organisations will be cut off from a considerable proportion of the support they are using to keep these camps up and run properly so that people do not have to go on life-threatening journeys. In other words, this logic is limping, and it would be good to hear from the Minister about the impact of these cuts and what kind of assessments you have made of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u37	Mr President! However, I would like to remind you that Finland's support for Syria and its neighbouring regions in 2011-2016 amounts to a total of EUR 107 million, that it is not an entirely non-existent amount. And, fortunately, humanitarian aid was cut less now, because I agree that of course that assistance is needed. But, Mr President, smart investments in renewable energy will certainly reduce poverty and improve food security very effectively and will also help integrate refugees into neighbouring countries, for example, so that we do not have to go with our lives to the other side of the globe. In a world where the population is growing and urbanized, home gardening is no longer enough, does not keep hunger away. Effective food chains are needed, ranging from agricultural inputs to the consumer's table. In order for people to have access to food, they need work and livelihood. Millions of productive jobs are needed for hundreds of thousands of companies and most of them need electricity. I would remind you that more than half of the Africans are still without the first electric light and that whoever has electricity is paying random sums for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u38	Mr President! I think it is important that development policy is carried out over the term of government, and it is good that the government has retained the key priorities in this report as well. I was not sure if my memory was working, so I had to Google to see that the first report was actually made during my ministry, in May 2014, and very much the same themes. But I would have, Minister, paid attention to two things. The other is the role of organisations. I think there is some kind of misconception in the summer report, which thought that organisations should now coordinate behind our official development policy. If you look at organizations, they have over a thousand projects in over a hundred countries. I think it is a strength and it is a wealth that these organisations also operate in countries where Finland is otherwise not present. Let us take someone from Sierra Leone — we do not have many projects there, but then there is a small non-governmental organisation that does things there. And finally, the role of UN organisations. We have had a policy in the past to select these small, hard, good organisations — UN Women, UNFPA, UNEP — and now I am very concerned, for example, that UNEP funding has been completely withdrawn and there are cuts in the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u39	Madam President! Yes, this report is contradictory, but it is because the government's policy is contradictory. Let us take the example of UN organisations. The report says that Finland will strengthen the work of international actors, and at the same time the UN organisations will be subjected to massive cuts, up to 70%. It will certainly weaken their work. All good and effective development cooperation is long-term activity, and the Government of this effectiveness and effectiveness is now putting these massive cuts and changes in the terms of funding at risk. There are many actors in our Finnish development cooperation field and they all have an important place in it. One of them is Demo Finland, founded by our parliamentary parties. I would have liked to ask Mr Toivaka: how do you see Demo Finland's role in the future, because Demo Finland is, I believe, the only actor that aims specifically at promoting democracy and democracy? If we are thinking about the development of democracy, there is a connection with conflict, it is quite clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u40	Mr President! There has now been a number of references here to this previous report and to how this is taking backward steps or that there is no logic here. Indeed, the previous report for 2014 is, but it focused on the results and was submitted at the end of the period. This report is forward-looking, and here we look to the future, and that is what is new and for the first time here. This responds precisely to this need to update our development policy to the new situation. Much has changed internationally: the UN 2030 Agenda, the climate agreement and, of course, this refugee and humanitarian crisis, but also our national, new situation where these resources are scarcer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u41	Mr President! Since then, the Finnish Government has reduced development funds from 0.6% to 0.38%, and I think we should ask whether we can afford to cut development funds in this way, whether we can afford to undermine our development policy to a very small extent. We can also talk about whether we can not talk about change of direction, when the funds go so small and when we completely abandon the Nordic framework and when we cut back on the support of UN organisations so that our contribution there is really much lower than before, and when the activities of NGOs are halved, we cut their chances of supporting projects in which governments and states cannot be involved, for example, in supporting minorities in many countries where it may be difficult, and when support for humanitarian and sustainable development becomes quite different. There's been a lot of talk here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u42	Mr President! In most of the speeches, representatives of the Government parties have interpreted almost all of the group statements as commending the Government's development policy guidelines. I say that although the KD is often sensitive to the actions of the government, we are in a completely different direction here. The main differences between the Christian Democrats in the government's development policy and immigration policy relate primarily to EU policy and international solutions. We believe that Finland should invest in the EU's common quota refugee system and, on the other hand, we should abandon transfers within asylum seekers. Efforts should be made to prevent refugees by investing in assistance in areas close to the crisis countries. But the government has done exactly the opposite of this: cutting development cooperation and accepting intra-EU transfers of asylum seekers that encourage illegal and dangerous entry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u43	"And all was ready on earth and the world of Yahwehs. CocaColaInc., Mining company Anaconda,/FordMotorjasen. " Mr President! These words of Pablo Neruda from 60 years ago certainly described the world and the activities of the big companies back then. The world has changed, and today we also understand and know how to use the contribution of business to development cooperation. But the fact that we give up demonizing big business does not mean that they should also be idealized. That is why, in addition to what is quite rightly stated in this report about the importance of business, we would have liked to see more emphasis on strengthening the rules of the game which guarantee respect for human rights, environmental management, taxation and fundamental labour rights through corporate responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u44	Madam President! Some of these statements by the opposition are somewhat confusing. When I have followed the matter myself, I have never noticed that the amount of development aid given by Finland at any time would have had any effect on the number of asylum seekers arriving the following year. In other words, this given development aid has not, at least in the past, correlated in any way with the number of asylum seekers and, in particular, with the countries from which it came. Mr President! However, I somehow caught up with this logic and turn it over a bit, so for years the citizens of Somalia and Iraq have been in the top ranks when it comes to seeing which countries have become asylum seekers in Finland. However, there are large areas of peace in both these countries, and these regions are not going to be asylum seekers. In Iraq, this region is the so-called environment of the city of Kurdistan and the city of Hargeisa in Somalia. Both these regions already have Finnish business activities, such as solar and wind power technology.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u45	Mr President! Humanitarian aid is important, but as the Minister himself said here, it is just a Band-Aid. There is also a need for long-term development cooperation between UN organisations and non-governmental organisations. And here is the crux of the problem: you are cutting the support of NGOs by about 43% and from UN organisations by up to 70%. But, Mr President, I want to talk about taxation, because that is the essence of everything. It is a good thing that the minister is now activated and the ministry is with it, and the ambassador for tax issues has been placed, but that is not enough. We need a programme of measures. It is important for Parliament to know what Finland’s objectives and priorities are, and it also seeks support from this Parliament. So I hope, Minister, that you will answer my question: are you prepared to update the programme that was drawn up during the last parliamentary term to combat international tax evasion and bring it to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u46	Madam President! Here's a little demonized about Finnfund's role. I would like to ask the Minister that, when we talk about reproductive and sexual health issues here on page 10, what obstacles do you see in moving such family planning forward on the field?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u47	Mr President! In addition to the importance of updating the international anti-tax avoidance programme in Finland, I would now draw attention to this importance of corporate social responsibility. In the future, companies will easily experience major loss of reputation. It relates to respect for human rights, fundamental social rights, environmental rights. Last season — I think the Minister remembers — we made this kind of social responsibility road map for the public sector and businesses that relates to Finland. It would be important for this work to be continued also during this term of government. I pay particular attention to two issues: Finnish companies operating in international fields, operating in the global market, must also emphasise the social responsibility of their companies, from the point of view of their reputation. And especially now that the strategy for state ownership policy is also being reformed, there state companies are particularly important to record a strong social responsibility criterion also for the activities of state-owned companies. Do you feel the same way, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u48	Let us take the floor from the representatives, Mr Elo and Mr Lindtman, and then I would ask the Minister to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u49	Madam President! The world’s need for Christians is great at the moment. There are estimated to be 12 million Christians in the Middle East and their number would be halved by 2020. So there's no time to lose. In this respect, it is possible for Finland, through our development cooperation, to seek to guarantee the right of the Christian population to be informed of their fundamental rights and, of course, of religious freedom. Of course, the responsibility for results plays a major role in the countries that Finland provides for development cooperation. These countries to which Finland provides development aid include Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania, and on the Open Doors list, these countries are countries where freedom of religion does not take place as it should. Minister, how does the government take into account the role of Christians in development policy in the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u50	Mr President! Can someone please tell me who's been demonizing Finnfundia here? Or if you think that criticizing development aid cuts is somehow a demonization of Finnfund, then I really don't understand. In the name of 'the Committee proposes that part of the planned capital increase in Finnfund should be aimed at alleviating the negative effects for NGOs and at securing the funding of UN organisations, such as UNEP, prioritised by Finland'. This is the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr Kiuru, are you accusing members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of demonizing? I would like an answer to that. Mr President! Representative Urpilainen raised a very important issue and a theme. Even during this debate, EU countries have lost more than EUR 200 million as a result of tax avoidance and rounding, that is, just during this debate. Last season Finland took the lead in the fight against international tax evasion. This ambassador is a good thing, but here's the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u51	Before the Minister, Mr Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u52	Madam President! I apologise to Mr Lindtman if I have put my word in such a way that it offends colleagues, of course that is not the intention. However, I understand that there are some cuts here, as opposed to one another, and then the capitalisation of Finnfund. Of course, that doesn't...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u55	Minister Toivaka, three minutes from his seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u56	Madam President! We are now setting out the future of development policy, the way it will become in this changed environment. [Ville Niinistö referred to the Minister that he would stand up. ] Then I would also like to say to Mr Niinistö that there have been so many concerns about Finland's reputation, and I too have been discussing this matter with other ministers than just ministers, with quite a large number of people around the world. For example, the U.N. Ambassador in New York has followed this matter somewhat, and he said that he does not see a major blow to Finland's reputation here. It is so long-term work and Finland’s good reputation that it will not be damaged by these single cuts. But we must make sure that it is good in the future — it is absolutely essential — and it is in the hands of all of us that it will continue to be good. I would even say that this damage to reputation is quite a Finnish debate. We tend to have a little bit of self-esteem involved in a lot of things. Let us now focus more on this future and on what we really do, as this report is supposed to do. Then I would like now — I only have three minutes — to make a few comments about this private sector and the corporate responsibility that was asked about, among other things. In other words, we now have a variety of instruments for developing with the private sector. All these development finance instruments are part of development cooperation and these projects are always subject to development impact. They will be evaluated before they receive money, when monitoring the implementation of their project and afterwards. There are different instruments for this, depending on the instrument. For Finnfund, for example, when it is in state ownership control, it has to comply with the UN Global Compact principles. It must assess the human rights impact of its funded projects and ensure their implementation through instruments that have been built internationally. In addition, this transparency will be enhanced, but for example these development effects will be assessed by means of the following indicators: jobs in funded projects; farmers benefiting from projects; tax revenues and payments; projects directly serving the poor part of the population. In other words, there are many indicators, and this transparency and monitoring is actually being increased all the time. In that sense, we are heading in a good direction, and when we organised the Private sector and human rights event at the House some time ago, there was a huge number of companies that were interested in how human rights could be better taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u57	Then we'll continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u58	Mr President! This issue of Finland's reputation and ability to function in the UN system is much wider. We have major changes in how to steer the economy in a sustainable direction. It is not only enough for us to export export credits to Finnish clean tech companies, but we will take the money away there so that the UN system can implement that expertise in developing countries, for example through UNEP. As an environmental organisation, UNEP is now coordinating all the structural work required by the SDGs and the climate agreement in order to enable developing countries to manage climate change adaptation. In other words, if there is no rule of law and if the systems are not in order, then there is a risk that these subsidies can be ineffective. The effectiveness of non-governmental organisations and our bilateral cooperation has continued to improve. Let's make a really quick move. It would appear that you are taking back some forms of business aid, which have even been found ineffective in the past, and here there is the risk of less money being used. It must not be an ideological question of business cooperation. Even though it's important, it's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u59	Mr President! Earlier, the group chairman of the Finns Party said the essence of that matter. For the government, development policy is a cutting point among others, when it should be seen as part of Finland's foreign and security policy, it should be seen as a strategic choice. Against that, it is very difficult to understand these drastic cuts to the actual development cooperation which will drop us out of this Nordic framework, which is the right place for Finland. It is particularly difficult to understand these cuts for UN organisations. They are quite damaging in this situation when it is precisely the conditions of refugee camps that should be improved. There is a glaring contradiction between words and actions. Good objectives for women and girls, for strengthening the tax base, for food security and so on, but now, Minister Toivakka, two messages to you: cancel these disproportionate cuts in development cooperation in the forthcoming spending limits debate and, as Mr Urplainen and Mr Rinne have requested, update this programme against international tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u60	Mr President! 32,000 asylum seekers arrived in Finland last year. This year's figure we can only guess. There is no need to go beyond the sea behind development cooperation, development work has come to Finland. The illiteracy alone is already a challenge in our country for a long time. Why don't you ask the municipality if you don't believe this fact? The opposition has called for the development aid threshold of 0.7% of GDP to be reached. In fact — I ask the Christian Democrats, for example — is this 0.7% absolute value, or would it be the absolute value of how the money is spent? We know that there are many weaknesses in the use of development aid funds, and in that sense the cuts are timely. Will we achieve this goal if we calculate the cost of immigration, which is 0.7% of GDP? So this year alone, immigration costs between EUR 600 million and EUR 800 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u61	Mr President! At the moment, international cooperation is much more necessary than it has now been. This is the kind of situation that's really bad. Minister Mrs Toivakka said here that Finland's reputation has not been seriously damaged by the UN, but if we look at the situation of investing much more — what we should put — then our reputation would be much better, and that measure would be needed right now in those developing countries and in these countries, so that we could influence the fact that people would not have to leave their own place of residence. Does the government at any point have plans to improve this economic situation and give more money to development cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u62	Värderade fru talman! Först vill jag tacka ministern för att läget i Syrie beaktas skilt för sig och att man satsar på det.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u63	Madam President! Now it has to be said to Mr Niiko that this 0.7% is the government's objective, which, fortunately, is a long-term objective here on page 9, that the opposition has not come up with just here to try to reach 0.7%, and that is good. In fact, I would have liked to ask the Minister how this 0.7 will be achieved, what kind of timetable, what kind of plan. I welcome the fact that this has still been the goal there. It is indeed important that we work on effective and goal-oriented development cooperation, but when, for example, NGOs, Mr Niikko, were cut by a total of 43% of NGOs with a Christian background, many projects had to be driven down very quickly. You must have been familiar with Fida's development cooperation: in the middle of the season people had to leave the field. It is truly tragic and certainly causes considerable confusion there, including:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u64	Mr President! This target of 0.7% of GDP is a long-term objective, as the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u67	Mr President! The report particularly welcomes the importance of international trade. The Government considers it important that the opportunities for the target countries to access their export products to the world market are improved. This can be influenced, among other things, by EU trade policy. Removing export barriers can have a much greater impact on the economy of developing countries than development cooperation funding for the country. The Government also considers that the role of enterprises in development cooperation will be significantly strengthened. It is clear, therefore, that at best the private sector can transport far more resources than public development funding to create the basis for development. However, when assessing the role of companies, it is important to remember that the development of societies requires long-term commitment and coherence. When the success of a listed company is assessed by means of three-month quartiles, it is rather a quarter of the success of social development for 25 years. A country that needs help in its development cannot be a target country for private sector quick profits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u68	Mr President! Good speeches were made here on the subject of tax evasion, and I should like to say something about this myself. I have very recent figures that in 2014 the countries of sub-Saharan Africa received USD 40 billion in development aid, and in the same year these countries, as illegal cash flows, went into tax havens — such as, for example, Holland, by the way — between USD 60 and USD 100 billion. These are shocking figures, and they certainly show that good governance, the reform of institutions and, in particular, tax administrations, and the strengthening of knowledge from the needs of developing countries and, once and for all, an international system for curbing capital flight, ending tax evasion, and so on, are also essential to me, and I think that we should all continue to drive vigorously in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u69	Mr President! Indeed, there are extremely difficult choices here, and it has become clear during the debate and in the past that the government is making a very big change in this long line of our development cooperation. Then we can discuss what it is all about. When we talk about how parties get their goals through in the Government Programme, it is unquestionably that this was the central theme of the Finns before the elections that development cooperation funds are being cut off, and it has now become perhaps more powerful than many people imagined. But I remember from the pre-election debate that there was another side to the model of the Finns, and that was to allow voluntary assistance to be made available so that there would have been a tax deduction that would then have attracted money to replace it. When public money is reduced, private money would have been replaced. And I remember such a debate — and several from that last Chamber — in which it is precisely:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u70	Mr President! It was 23 years ago that Parliament discussed the first report on Finland's development strategy and it was also sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and received a lot of praise. There was also a time when there was a very drastic cut in the budget for development, at the depths of the recession. At the time, I had to discuss, among other things, the cuts with the leaders of various UN organisations and at home. By discussing things, things became clearer, and Finland’s reputation did not suffer at all. I can say that the cuts at the time were in many respects even very healthy: we went through all the projects, we went through the projects and even through the target countries and eliminated the inefficient, bad ones that had accumulated. Now, Minister Toivaka has an excellent opportunity to go through these too and see what is reasonable about what we have money for, and we do not have money today, but debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u71	Mr President! I would have raised the issue of this business. When it is criticised, it is not, as it were, intended to create a confrontation, but vice versa, to talk about the future and the conditions under which. For example, at one of the events of the Parliament's Population and Development Group at Finnfundi's mouth, it has been said that they do not have the skills to talk about issues such as sexual and reproductive health and rights, to talk about the realisation of the rights of girls and women. How, for example, will this sort of thing be ensured when these companies go to work on that new market, what are the clear practices or control methods, instruments, with which to finance these companies even with its expertise? At the second table, large Finnish companies, already operating in the emerging market, have themselves said that they do not have the expertise to really need it. And, for example, that mere job is not yet a guarantee of good life, but we can take it in an even more negative direction if, at the same time, we cannot support and support the realisation of human rights. This will require the practical guidelines and, of course, the money and the resource that will actually be put into practice. When we talk about growth this big,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u72	Madam President! It is good to continue with this speech by Mr Toivola. That is precisely how, rather than contrasting the activities of non-governmental organisations with those of businesses in development cooperation, we see this as an opportunity to develop. This is how I've read this paper. That is why, when we are here trying to think about how we are going to act as effectively as possible, I would ask Minister Toivaka when it says here that we are working together with the EU arenas and with international actors to avoid duplication and to get as much impact as possible, and I would ask you to open up how it will be put forward in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u73	Mr President! It is true that the government is increasingly directing development cooperation through companies, and at least in my opinion, the primary task of channelling aid through companies is to produce development effects. That is the starting point. Business subsidies must therefore be transparent and they must also respect social responsibility. But, Mr President, this answer to my question from the Minister was rather vague. During the last parliamentary term, Finland was at the forefront of the fight against international tax evasion. We organised an international seminar in Finland, we prepared an international anti-tax avoidance agenda, we were very active in international fora to speak and influence this issue. There is a great deal of political support here in this Chamber for this anti-tax evasion work, I sensed it, because the Prime Minister's party also offered support for this. Can you promise, Minister Toivakka, that you will bring a proposal to Parliament, a concrete proposal to explain how Finland intends to influence the fight against tax evasion during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u74	Madam President! After all, Finland has a huge history in development cooperation. Take Namibia, for example. We can rightly say that Namibia is our black tribal people. This government report proves that we now want to put development policy in a new position, in a changing world, in a changing reality. This is very realistic, but there are no ideals and fundamental values forgotten. Strengthening civil society and democratic structures is central. And it is this report that suggests that the central focus of state-led development cooperation must be to enable this promotion of a good life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u75	Mr President! The fight against tax havens and tax leaks is absolutely essential development policy. That is the important point, and it is great that many parties today have become supportive of this idea. But we also need action. Speech is not enough. We need action from the government. I hope that, for example, the government will move forward with country-specific accounting. It would be in the interests of Finland, but it would also be in the interests of developing countries. So we're waiting for concrete. And one of the key issues would also be to bring these tax and tax havens to the UN tables, where all countries are equally able to participate in the debate. But there is one important thing that is less important today in this debate, and that is peace. Without peace there can be no sustainable development, because survival and security are man's first basic need and the work of peace is also development cooperation. That is why I hope that Finland will continue strongly in the world with its prestigious mediation and peace-keeping activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u76	Madam President! It has often been said in this Chamber that these cuts must be made. What you have done is that you have made the choice to cut off the poorest people in the world. There are a lot of important things in this report, such as the role of women and girls, organisations — organisations from which you are unfortunately cutting 43% of the funds. But you also speak highly of tax evasion, so I wonder why the Minister does not have any more specific answers at this stage. What is regrettable here is that we are preventing long-term work for world peace. As long as we do not have a long-term job, the world will not end extreme poverty, will not end the lack of education of children and young people, and Finland has done a good job in these matters. Our organisations have done an excellent job, and it is precisely these organisations that will not be able to carry out their work. If there is no peace in the world, if we do not do this long-term work,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u77	Värderade fru talman! One change that has been made here is that emissions trading revenues have been directed not to development cooperation but back to the source of emissions, as it were. How does the Minister see that this is in line with Finland’s environmental objectives, and does it urge companies to move to cleaner technologies?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u78	Mr President! It is recalled that at the time of 93, when Minister Kankaanniemi was Minister for Development Cooperation, this gross amount of development aid was 0.7% of GDP, and this has not been achieved since then. Hopefully, at times our people will be such that we could be given more of this help. But now the government's development aid is based on more and better results. Then the four priorities are important and the one I have been talking about for years that the target countries should be reduced. We cannot cure poverty and misery in the whole world. Yes, Finland has always done its job, and we probably know that we are the leading countries in this. There is also talk of poverty; at the moment there are more than one billion poor people. We need to talk about a democratic deficit around poverty. In their time, rich countries have plundered natural resources, agriculture, civil war, corruption and everything. But if this world stays
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u79	Mr President! I will return to this debate on the role of businesses in the further work, and I would just like to point out that it was, however, the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which specifically stressed that since Finnfund was now becoming more than he could possibly imagine in the greatest imagination that this additional money would come, it could somehow have been seen as refocusing the cuts so that at least some of these organizational cuts could have been rejected in other ways, because they are really drastic. And I want Mr. Ville Niinistö here to stumble a little bit: I, too, am a former minister, and one small detail is that these other UN organisations are now also going to be cut into this section. I am talking here specifically about the World Health Organisation, for example. At the same time as we have ongoing, new health risks in this global cooperation, we should also be able to prevent, work together,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u80	Mr President! In recent times, when it has become trendy to resign from various international agreements and commitments, I would like to thank the government for not breaking out of this 0.7. In my opinion, such leaps into the unknown now create more chaos in this world than is needed. I would have asked with reference to previous speeches, including Mr Adlercreutz: is there a mechanism in the Minister's mind for how to start growing towards 0.7 as early as this regime? Last season's experience showed that unless you have such a tool, as was then the emission auction revenue, it is very difficult. You may be there alone against the entire government in that negotiating situation. The second point concerns EU funding and national financial institutions, which have not yet been referred to very much here. In these, I believe that Finland could raise its profile in relation to the objectives we have: the position of women, the right of land ownership of women and such issues. There may be too little conditioning for these questions today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u81	Madam President! Development cooperation has become a permanent aid activity. Many developing countries are champions to justify why they should be assisted. Promise to improve democracy and human rights. Promise good governance and sustainable development. Why? There is a free pot of EUR 100 billion per year, which Finland participates in each year. The monitoring of the impact of development cooperation funds has been weak and has continued from year to year by traditional means. Studies show that in subSaharan Africa extreme poverty has even increased. There GDP per capita is now lower than in the 1970s, even though development aid is enormously targeted there. Now the government wants to change this and make it more efficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u82	I will now give four more debatable speeches, followed by a reply from the Minister. These four persons are representatives of Laukkanen, Andersson, Harakka and Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u83	Madam President! The highly valued and good level of Finnish development cooperation is not due to the actions of this government, but to the systematic, integrated approach of previous governments. Now this line is being driven down, and that is what we are discussing here and we are concerned about this change of focus. This is great that the Finns are courageously taking the responsibility that this is now their new line, and there is quite a large group of us here who think that this line is bad. And then, Minister, this is a question of money, and yes, we are losing skills when more than a hundred experts have lost their jobs in organisations and dozens of targets have been closed down. Yes, this is a genuine money issue, and we are currently losing an enormous amount of knowledge, which is people who are trained,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u84	Mr President! I, too, would like to make it clear that there has been no criticism of any individual player here, but that there has been criticism of the way in which the government implements these savings, that is to say that Finnfund is being allocated more money than Finnfund says it needs — at the same time as NGOs are being cut drastically and, above all, in a forward-looking way, which means that already-run projects will have to be discontinued. I am extremely pleased that the Minister, too, recognizes the need to define rules of play for development cooperation with companies and also for this corporate responsibility. But at least I myself would have liked these to have already been included in this report, given the significant change in political priorities that this represents. And I would like to ask the Minister: in what way are these definitions now going to be made and brought to the attention of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u85	Mr President! This saving speech is a complete misbehavior. Yes, it is a fact that the cut in development funding is an ideological choice. When the Finns of Peru promised it before the elections, then the coalition and the centre, which have history as experts of international responsibility, bowed to this, and it is a disgrace to them. I would remind you that in Britain, which has spent many years pursuing a right-wing liberal, very strict cutting policy, a law has just been passed which binds and jams 0.7% of the country's development funds. It has been understood that such matters must be above the political grievances — this has broad political support — and, above all, form part of a strategy for foreign and security policy. We must hold on to it, so they have understood that long-term sustainability, predictability and systematic action are everything a and o, including its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u86	Representative Huhtasaari, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u87	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi spoke well in this Chamber. The money is really a good consultant. If the position of a woman does not improve if poverty does not decrease, then what are we doing with such projects? I'm not worried about Finland's reputation. I believe that Finns can choose very good people there, and I also believe that those who do it will determine Finland's reputation, not the amount of money. But I am concerned about the worldwide reputation of development aid as a whole. It has been done for about 50 years, and the results are poor. I have to admit, we haven't succeeded. Colonial hosts have been replaced by local elites that smoothly continue to oppress their people. But now it is good that at the end of 2018, this board will prepare a report on the implementation of the report and its results.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u88	And then the minister, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u89	Madam President! Thank you for this debate and for the food for further work, for how to implement this report, which I would like to say in fact when Mr Haavisto is here: So last season there was indeed a report debate in 2014, we know very well about this, but it was very late in the period. This is now about new policies precisely at the beginning of this period, and this is the kind of discussion in the report format that is now being held for the first time. I won't underestimate these past ones, but this is another way. This has been referred to in many debates in this fight against international tax evasion, and as I have already said, this is the kind of tax development programme that has been launched in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Preparations for this will begin and will then be carried out more extensively on this issue, those issues which are specifically related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administration. But this is the work of all sectors of government and the government as a whole, and now we have put our energies into moving forward rather than updating the operational programme. These activities are being carried out in all areas at all times. As an example, these bilateral tax treaties, which have now been concluded with Spain, will be followed by Portugal. So these measures are being taken all the time, but I would stress that this is the work of the whole government and this must be done in a coordinated way. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself is taking this matter forward. Then I would like to highlight the fact that there is still a contrast between the fact that once we have had to cut it, it is unfortunate that this great capitalisation is now going to Finnfund and that somehow this role of the private sector in our development cooperation is being emphasised. It will have greater importance, but so will it in these sustainable development objectives. When we look at these 17 objectives, a great many of them will not only be achieved through traditional development cooperation, which is important, but we need the private sector to be involved so that these objectives can be met in future. It's just like this. Many other countries are ahead of us, and now it is time for Finland to get involved in this development. And I am glad that Finnish companies will be able to take their own technology so that people in developing countries will have a better life and can also do good things for the environment and hopefully prevent the development of climate change. Then on the subject of cuts, I would like to say that this programme is now focusing more closely on what will be done in the future. We are a small country, but we have been a major player in development cooperation. But now we need to think more carefully about what we do, what we do with our money, what we do with our knowledge, and it is now assembled on these covers. We've been criticized. In the past, the independent evaluator criticised Finland’s development cooperation as too fragmented. We were involved in a lot of things, which may have been less effective. Now we want to focus our resources and competences more closely on those areas where we are good and strong, which our partner countries need and which are in line with the UN objectives. Then about the cuts, I have to say that unfortunately other Nordic countries have also had to make cuts. We are not the only country. I have had discussions with colleagues on these issues, and this trend is, of course, regrettable, and we do not want to continue to do so. That is why it is important that this trend is slowly rising, but how quickly can we reach 0.7 levels? I certainly do not dare to say that, nor do I even bet, because everything depends on our economic development and many other things, but hopefully as soon as possible. Then there were a few things that were still important, such as peace-keeping, peace-making. Finland will continue to play a strong part in this. It is a work that is long-term, it continues to be as long-term, it is important, but it is very invisible. But it is very important that a country such as Finland is involved in these operations and is doing this strongly. We have a lot to offer here, and I myself have particularly stressed the fact that the role of women in these peacekeeping operations, in mediation, is extremely important. This is where Nordic expertise, Finnish expertise and values have a great deal to offer. This is the work that can be done to prevent these crises in the future. Then one more thing, in fact, while this was about the cuts in the UN organisation: This really does not mean, now that I have mentioned these three organisations, UN Women, UNFPA and UNICEF, that Finland only works through these organisations. We have a huge number of actors who, in the form of projects, are still our partners, but that basic funding is only now for these three main organisations. For example, at Zaatar camp in Jordan we operate through many other organisations, such as the World Food Programme or Refugee Assistance or many other UN organisations. This list is long and you can also read about it in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u90	We are now going to the list of speakers, but now, as a derogation, Mr Urplainen, for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u91	Mr President! The Minister noted that the fight against tax evasion requires the input of many ministries. It's true. In fact, this anti-tax avoidance action programme, which was drawn up during the last parliamentary term, was carried out in cooperation with the ministries. I was the Minister of Finance myself doing it. There was also Minister of Development Haavisto, there was Foreign Minister Tuomioja, and it was just the government's joint programme of action in cooperation with the ministries. I therefore think it is important that this government should also carry out an action programme so that you know what is being done in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance knows what is being done in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, the tax agreements to which you referred: I myself launched the negotiations on the tax treaty with both Portugal and Spain during the last parliamentary term. I see that there is strong political support here, Mr Toivakka. It must be rare for the whole parliament to agree on something. Come on, come on, Make this programme and bring it to Parliament, and it will allow us to continue the debate and Finland’s activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u92	Then we'll go to that list of speakers. The first one seems to be Congressman Pauli Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u93	Madam President! Wilson Kirwa of Kenya’s background first came to Finland in 1997. His story is full of interesting twists that are encouraging. The latest stage relates to the coffee to be launched on the market. It combines immigration, entrepreneurship, trade, Finnish-Kenian guts and valuing raw material suppliers. The company’s website promises that coffee growers will get a better price for the coffee beans they grow, will be able to create a better future for their families, I believe in tomorrow and better farming and living conditions. This will enable farmers to pay for their children’s schooling. We need more of these encouraging examples. The cuts in Finland’s development aid have been criticised. It is true that Finland is lagging behind in the tight economic climate in its objectives of increasing its development cooperation funding to 0.7% of its gross national income recommended by the UN. We are at the same level of 0.38% as Germany and still ahead of the OECD average. In line with the budget approved in December, Finland will increase Finnfund's funding by EUR 130 million. Finnfund is a Finnish state-owned development funder. The aim is to reduce poverty through jobs and sustainable economic growth by financing investment by businesses in developing countries. The focus will be on renewable energy, sustainable forestry and food security. Finnfund tries to make a profit on its investments, but it does not distribute profits to its owners, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Finnvera. Profits will be invested in new projects. Half the investment is in Africa. In poor countries and in difficult circumstances, success is in the interests of both the financier, the target country and, in particular, the local population. According to the report, the proportion of people living in extreme poverty among the world's population has halved since 1990. It's less than 10% for the first time. Unfortunately, strong population growth is making the situation difficult in many areas. The world’s population grows every day by over 200,000 people. This figure corresponds roughly to the size of the city of Tampere. In Africa, the population grows by 90,000 people a day. By 2050 the population of the continent will grow by as much as 1.3 billion, which is about 240 inhabitants in Finland. The growing population is linked to climate change, soil degradation, sea level rise, erosion, the end of fresh water, food inadequacy, increasing emissions, and political instability and conflict. People desperately seek a safer environment and a more secure livelihood. The pressure to increase the uncontrolled wave of immigration is intensifying both in Europe and in Finland. The UN estimates that the number of refugees in the world is 60 million. If they were divided equally into 200 nations in the world, each country should receive 300,000 people. For political reasons, because of their small size, poverty or state of war, some countries cannot be host countries, so a more accurate figure would be about 500,000 immigrants per host country. The controlled decline in population growth should be a common goal of the countries of the world and of the UN. Preventing and limiting family planning is a crime against humanity. Those who commit crimes must be held accountable for their actions before international law. China has managed to curb its population growth and has raised hundreds of millions of people from poverty to prosperity. This is an exceptional achievement. Part of it is done by environmentally unsustainable economic growth, partly by strict state family planning and regulation. Of course you can, and that's what you've done. The question, however, is whether the situation would be better if the population had grown without restrictions. I don't think so. Improving the position of women and education are linked to increasing the economic and social well-being of society, as mentioned in the report. Improving the rights of women and girls affects the conditions for family planning and population growth. Madam President! Finally, development aid should be conditional on improving the status and education of women and, in particular, family planning. If the country wants population growth,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u94	Mr President! The Government's report on Finland's development policy raises very conflicting feelings. The Government has targeted exceptionally large and fast-paced cuts in development cooperation at a time when the need and importance of long-term and stable development cooperation have been materialised on many levels. The way in which savings are made is also wonderful. No one has yet answered the question as to why more money is being allocated to Finnfund than is being asked at the same time as the support of non-governmental organisations is being cut in advance so that projects already under way have to be discontinued. This fundamental change in the operating environment is not properly addressed in the report. Many of the objectives and priorities listed conflict with the financial decisions taken. This contradiction raises questions about the importance of this report and the influence of practical policy. The aim repeated in the report of raising the contribution of development cooperation to 0.7% of gross national income seems unusual and unfortunately also sad in a situation in which the government has just decided to reduce it to 0.38%. In order for this target setting to be credible, the government should make a clear plan as to when and how to achieve it. Mr President! The Government's objective is clearly to shift the focus of development cooperation towards a business-driven model and a private sector through NGOs and UN organisations. However, the report does not open the way in which the government intends to implement the policies developed over the last decades in order to guarantee transparency, accountability, performance and accountability in development cooperation, including through the private sector. It is important for the Finnish taxpayer that the principles of transparency and effectiveness continue to be respected in development cooperation. In addition, the issue of corporate responsibility is hardly addressed in this report, although, in view of the change in political priorities, it is an extremely important issue. I believe that the government should provide Parliament with a report on how these issues are to be taken into account. Many of the objectives listed in the report are in themselves very welcome. Reducing inequality is central at a time when world inequality has become more acute despite a reduction in absolute poverty. The situation in which the world’s 65 richest people own more than half of the world’s population together is no indication of good leadership or a brilliant business idea, but of the extremely inefficient distribution of resources in the global economy. Strengthening developing countries' own economies is also an extremely important principle, and it plays a key role in curbing the tax haven economy and aggressive tax planning. It is estimated that every year developing countries lose a large amount of money as a result of capital flight than they receive development cooperation funds. The IMF estimates that developing countries will lose more than $200 billion a year due to tax evasion by multinational companies. The losses are higher than the corporate tax revenue of the same countries. Finally, Mr President, efforts have been made to address this problem by strengthening tax administrations in developing countries in the framework of development cooperation. It is extremely important, but it is inadequate as a means. In addition, there must be a real and big change in the rules of the global economy. Addressing transfer pricing, closing tax havens, country-by-country tax reporting and fairing tax treaties are all key means to this end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u95	Madam President! Very often we Finns in that world are asked how you did it. How could a poor country, a country ravaged by wars, so quickly become one of the most successful nations in the world with many different indicators? This is a question that I myself have been able to answer in many international associations and to explain how the Finnish and Nordic welfare society has been built in the same way as justice, equality and joint action. So, Mr President, it can be said that inequality is not only a challenge for Finland, but perhaps also the greatest one of our common challenges in the world. At the same time, however, this very lack of inequality could be one of mankind’s great opportunities. When people are given the opportunity anywhere in the world to participate in their society and in their immediate environment, they usually make a different contribution to the development of both their own society and the world as a whole. Unfortunately, however, this contribution cannot be expected if a person is constantly struggling in the midst of hunger, poverty, violence and lack of participation. Mr President! It is easy to agree with the many speeches that have been made in this debate and which have, quite understandably, wondered at this contradiction between the words of the report — which are good words and well-placed words — and then the concrete actions of the government. In my opinion, it was important that Minister Toivakka's own speech made it very clear that development policy must be and is also in line with the stability of the world in Finland. It is also the advantage of Finns, each of us, in the long term, in the short term, but especially in this long term. Many of these guidelines in the Development Policy Report are very welcome, but they have been set as if there were at least as much money as before, and that, as we know, is not the case. Furthermore, I would like to reiterate my amazement at the fact that, although it is now being said here that investment has been made and will be made in the neighbouring areas of Syria, which is an important issue, nevertheless, in this debate on the refugee crisis it is very often felt that this is as if it were enough. I do not think that it is enough to think, for example, of this situation of UN organisations at the level of the ground where they are trying to improve and help these people in that region with the best of their skills, which they have planned for the war in Syria and many other conflicts. In fact, Minister, I would like to ask whether we should not look further now, so I am not talking about next year or even the next five years, but really much further so that we can anticipate future crises in good time and, in part, these crises are already foreseeable. I am referring, among other things, to the paper presented in Davos, which has tried to anticipate these crises of the future. Would it not now be necessary to tackle these threats in the long term, for example, to support UN organisations and not to change our approach now — as much as I understand the difficult situation of the Minister in this middle of the cutbacks? President! I would like to conclude by saying that it is very important to talk about tax evasion, the fight against corruption and the development of democracy. I think that we Finns, including political decision-makers, would have a lot to give to this work. I would also like to pay particular tribute to the fact that we continue to maintain the status and inclusion of women and girls in these principles and policies at a high level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u96	My esteemed Madam Speaker! The crisis in the world is prolonged, the refugee crisis is creating humanitarian distress and the need to help refugees is growing. The stability of the world and the building of peace are in Finland's best interests. That is what we agree on. Those most in need should be helped, and we will. Finland must prioritise aid correctly so that it does not go to those who do not need primary aid. This is particularly important at a time when less and less money is available for this. Mr President! I would like to focus on development cooperation in a few words. If and when we want the millions of Finnish development cooperation to go to exploitation, we need to be able to look critically at the current situation. In countries that have not received development aid, extreme poverty has decreased. Poverty has even increased in developing countries. If China is not included in the statistics, the number of people living in extreme poverty has even increased by 100 million between 1990 and 2010. This is the calculation of the 40-year career in development cooperation by Foreign Affairs Counsellor Matti Kääriäinen. How is this possible? Let us take a few practical examples. In Afghanistan, poverty has been a permanent problem. According to a recent report from the Reconstruction Fund, between 2007 and 2012, the share of those living in poverty remained the same, even though the economy grew at an annual rate of almost 10%. So the money ends up with the ones who have it ready. Finland is committed to EUR 30 million per year in Afghanistan. One third of this will be allocated to the Afghanistan Reconstruction Fund. This fund is budget support for the Afghan regime through the World Bank. The annual budget of the Fund is almost EUR 1 billion. Budget support is an extremely risky instrument in the corrupt conditions in Afghanistan. For example, in 2010, nearly one billion dollars of embezzlement was discovered in the management of a larger commercial bank. The president's brother was one of the partners. According to Helsingin Sanomat, Finland has also paid subsidies through this bank. Norway considered the revelation and subsequent infallibility in recovering the money so bad that it cut its support. This operation was also affected by the failure of the administration to demonstrate that it had implemented a law prohibiting child marriages and violence against women. Finland did the opposite of Norway: the previous government increased its support for Afghanistan. Finland should distance itself from its commitment to pay half of Afghanistan's aid as budget support. Another example is the Palestinian territories. In total, Finland's support amounted to 17 million last year. With the surgeries, the amount is likely to fall close to 10 million this year. The EU alone finances Palestinian territories with around EUR 300 million per year, the largest of which is paid to the Palestinian Authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u99	Mr President! Representative Niikko drew attention to Finland's Afghanistan policy and to the fact that, in a situation where Norway cut money for Afghanistan during the previous regime, we continued to support Afghanistan and to some extent even increased support for the civilian sector. In the light of hindsight, I must say that I have no regrets. Looking at the situation in Afghanistan today, the international community is withdrawing, less funds are available for the peacekeeping operation, and the number of refugees seems to be increasing from Afghanistan. Many people in rural, smaller towns are now experiencing insecurity — the Taliban attacked some of these targets last autumn. Whatever we can do to ensure that Afghanistan remains stable and that there is no new flow of refugees towards Europe, we should do so, and in that sense this is what the Finnish aid and aid to Afghanistan meant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u100	Two replies: representatives of Niikko and Biaudet. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u101	Mr President! Mr Haavisto himself, when he is a minister, knows that the proper allocation of funds is of paramount importance if the aid is to be delivered. Right? This is our priority number one. At least it should be. No one will be opposed to the desire to support the weak development situation in Afghanistan and, above all, to help children and mothers and women get better living conditions. It is precisely how they are supported that is of primary importance. There are a number of non-governmental organisations in Afghanistan, not only Finns, but especially Central European organisations, and that support should be channelled through them. I cannot understand how, in such a situation, we are giving EUR 10 million in budget support to an administration that is using proven funds elsewhere than is intended. In this case, our hands will not be washed clean by transferring money through the World Bank to the Afghan regime. We should use these funds through development aid organisations if we want to use them. Otherwise, we will simply support increased corruption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u102	Mr President! The experience of Afghanistan has been very important, and I agree with Mr Haavisto: more could be done. Part of the support for the administration is to ensure the knowledge, equality, education and the ability of police officers in police forces to act as police officers, so that women and children's safety, for example, can be better secured in school. The situation is very difficult and it would be terribly sad if, after all these years, we left the women of Afghanistan alone. There is also a need for major changes in the administration, despite the fact that this development is probably difficult and it is bound to come back and so on. But there is no security to know that some money does not go wrong. We must also be involved in difficult situations, otherwise this help would not be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u103	Minister Toivakka will respond, please, from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u104	I would also like to add, and indeed exactly what Mr Haavisto said, that Finland is supporting Afghanistan so that it can continue to develop in a positive direction. It is very important that this work is also long-term. Long-term work has been very much called for here, and it is in Finland's interest that this fragile state should not be relegated to chaos. We have just heard that a huge number of refugees and asylum seekers will also come to us. Finland provides assistance to people in need in Afghanistan, yes, through the World Bank Fund, but also through UN organisations such as UN Women, UNICEF, UNESCO, and specifically education aid. A great many of these projects are targeted specifically at helping women and girls. We see this as a very important piece of work and it is very good that this continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u105	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u106	Mr President! The Government’s Development Policy Report has been successful and gives clear frameworks for the key objectives of Finland’s development policy. The reform will put development cooperation on the new agenda to improve efficiency and impact assessment. We welcome the model, which is therefore intended to improve the delivery of aid and to increase concrete results at lower costs. It is also in everyone's interest to be able to demonstrate the impact of funding through adequate monitoring. It has already been said that the book "The Curse of Development Assistance" of the Foreign Affairs Counsellor and the retired ambassador, Kääriäinen, caused a stir a year ago. It states that the granting of development aid to poor countries has not led to the objectives originally set for it. In many countries development aid supports the local elite, not democratisation. As a result, nearly ten times the amount of development aid is running away from the developing countries. Multinational companies are circumventing taxes, and thousands of billions of euros are collected in tax havens. He worked 40 years on development aid, so you'd think he knows something he's talking about, even though it's a straightforward text that's probably sharing opinions. The purpose of development aid is to free the recipient country from its dependence, and unfortunately this has not happened to all countries. There are now completely new solutions to the main problems of development policy. Reducing poverty is the starting point. No country can develop and poverty cannot be reduced without adequate entrepreneurial activity and decent employment opportunities. This is one of the key priorities of the reform. Finland has a wide range of expertise to provide in order to create a sustainable business life and promote business. It is important for developing countries to have a strong economic base and a functioning democratic social system. Many developing countries have natural resources that have been robbed of their citizens. The exploitation of these natural resources and the development of agriculture would bring work and self-sufficiency to our own people. In addition, education, equality and democracy are needed to eradicate poverty. It is clear that in a country in which there is an armed conflict or an emergency from a natural disaster, humanitarian aid is a priority and concrete aid is needed for peace-keeping. In addition to providing food, water, shelter and first aid to the most in distress, efforts must be made to promote access to normal life. Although humanitarian crises are becoming more and more prolonged, efforts must be made to get help to nearby areas so that people do not have to leave their homes or make it easier for them to return there as soon as possible. In addition to humanitarian aid, people must be helped to rebuild their own country and promote peace. This is also an important development policy objective in order to prevent large-scale refugees: people must be able to live safely and live in their own countries. The worrying increase in Africa's population, drought, famine and civil wars may cause more and more movement in Europe in the future if living conditions do not improve. For us Finns, gender equality is very common. Until now, Finland has been actively promoting the improvement of the position of women and girls, and it is great that this issue remains one of the government's main development policy objectives. Today, more and more children are starting school in developing countries. Girls are still in bad shape. Too often their schoolway ends because of child marriage, sexual violence or poverty. The resolution condemning child marriages was adopted by the UN Human Rights Council with support from more than 100 countries in 2013. Nevertheless, a great deal of cooperation is still needed to remedy this problem. Prevention advice and family planning are needed to curb population growth in developing countries. Women are currently in a bad position and have no opportunity to influence the number of children. There is a need for fairer treatment for this and for many others. And because time flies: Support has been given to these nine bilateral countries. It is important that there is a peace-keeping force in Afghanistan, as well as in Somalia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u107	Mr President! The government's deliberate choice to cut the level of actual development cooperation to almost half, i.e. to some EUR 500 million or 0.35% of GDP, shows that I do not believe that policy today is able to respond to the complex development challenges of this time in a comprehensive way. The government does not see long-term effects in the target countries or at home. Finland’s foreign policy seems to be limited to the neighbourhood policy and the monitoring of the interests seen through its own short-term spectacles. Is this an intelligent policy, there is good reason to ask. When the world has come to Finland from a small part of the world, the government’s pasmas are completely mixed up and the look cannot be lifted further into the horizon. Unfortunately, this is also reflected in growing distrust of our political system and in growing fear and hopelessness in the face of global challenges. In the past, when it was thought that Finland’s interest is to play a significant role in international multilateral cooperation in promoting the development of a legal basis for international cooperation or the elimination of poverty and inequality or the resolution of challenges arising from climate change, this government seems to think that by looking close and closing inward we can protect ourselves against all evil. The attitude towards the funding of NGOs also shows that the government underestimates their results and the importance of the international networks that have been provided for this work, both in us and in the country of destination. The content of the report has been praised here many times, and the priorities are commendable. One of the four priorities in the Government report is to strengthen the democracy of societies. At the moment, I have the privilege of being the chairman of the Party Demo. In this state of world politics in particular, the strong bond between democracy and peace must be taken into account. In a democratic society, of course, conflicts can also be prevented even before they break out into violent confrontations. Real democracies do not war with one another. According to the UNDP and the UN Development Programme, food shortages in Africa could have been prevented by political means. The 87 biggest refugee crises between 1985 and 2004 started in the autocratic, monopolistic countries. It is therefore clear that the promotion of democracy is a foreign and security policy choice that supports international stability. It prevents inequality, radicalisation and hence war, terrorism and refugeeism. A well-functioning multi-party democracy is a system of conflict management in which the voice of every citizen can be represented and so on. Demo Finland has been successful in six countries. After the surgeries, we still have three countries left, but you can ask very well what kind of results Demo Finland has achieved. In Tanzania, with the support of Demo Finland, the country's first cooperation forum between women politicians across party boundaries has been established. In fact, 20 young representatives from the post-revolution constitutional assembly attended the first course of the New Generation Policy School for Politicians set up in Tunisia with the support of Demo Finland and the Dutch sister organisation. 14 of them were elected to Parliament and three were elected ministers. In Zambia, the women's organisations of the parties made a joint statement against electoral violence less than a year from the start of cooperation with Demo Finland. In Nepal, for the first time in Demo Finland’s history, the youth and student organisations of the parties started systematic cooperation to improve the position of young people in politics. In Sri Lanka, political youth organisations started political cooperation in 2015 inspired by the example of Nepal in order to promote the role of young people and peaceful reconciliation policies. With the support of Demo Finland and the sister organisation in Myanmar, the policy school established at the end of 2014 is the country's first educational system linking political parties at local level. You can do a lot with a little one. The report promises:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u108	Madam President! Development policy must be changed while the world is changing. Where will the world be destroyed? What are the societies falling into? The world will be destroyed when the individual is destroyed. Reasons can be sought for dictatorships, corruption, moral hazard, thirst for power, injustice. We live in the face of new threats. I am particularly concerned about extremist movements, societies where young people find their meaning only through a terrorist organisation. We did not see or help when attempts were being made to raise the population in the Arab countries for civil rights. The Arab Spring 2011 turned into a series of violent confrontations. The opposition disappeared, the people disappeared. The Western countries must therefore primarily seek to create prospects and alternatives for countries where extremism and war at worst destroy the lives of children and young people. Madam President! Syria is in danger of losing an entire generation. Daily, more than 3,000 children have had to flee their homes during a five - year conflict. These children have been deprived of one of their most important rights: the right to education. There are 2.8 million Syrian children living in Syria and neighbouring countries who have not been admitted to school. Education is the most powerful tool in development policy in the world. The world's largest unused resource is uneducated girls. It is good that Finland is making a strong contribution to the removal of these shortcomings. Development policy is a very important factor in the ever-increasing international political situation. Where empathy ends, evil begins. Where human rights run out, terrorism begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u109	Madam President! Does anyone still remember the Finnish land brand project led by Alexander Stubb? It has been a whole five years since Finland announced that it was the world’s problem solver in 2030. The program said: "Finland offers the world functionality and sustainable solutions to make the world a better place to live." The promises were covered to the extent that, for example, Finland was a small superpower in peace-keeping. Finland was part of the Nordic Reference Group, which set an example of global responsibility. This is all in the past. It is symbolic that the site of the Maabrand is closed and all links from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs lead to emptiness. Finland has forgotten its role in the world and has focused on exploring its own navel. This is demonstrated by: The Sipilä Government cut EUR 300 million from the actual development cooperation on an annual basis. But the world’s problems are not reduced in the same proportion as Finland’s desire to influence them. The only consequence is that Finland is not there when it happens, is not ready to act, does not work in an organised and long-term way. The only difference is that Finland has lost its influence and its say in the world. As a representative Sentences were wisely stated in this Chamber last October; in addition to preparedness, efforts should be made to influence. The government often complains in this Chamber that crises have taken us by surprise. Only the government has been surprised by the crises. Every responsible actor, every player who genuinely solves problems knows that there are always crises. Only that can surprise you, which is the worst and most pressing crisis. The crises are born of a large whole. Wars and conflicts, natural disasters, food crises, extremes, oppression and corruption, population growth and population movements are intertwined. In the past, Finland was present and helping to deal with crises on the ground. Now Finland is just a recipient of crises. The beauty and support of the development policy agenda as such only shows that the current government is putting Finland's global responsibility on the next governments. Future responsible decision-makers can do their best to restore Finland's ability to act and influence in the world. Mr President! The word "business responsibility" does not appear in Sipilä's government program one single time. Now that word comes out of nowhere in the development policy report — at least so. Perhaps in its next programme, the government will finally explain what corporate responsibility means to it. Among other things, the questions remain completely open as to whether the government believes that companies are responsible for their entire production chain and production conditions. It is therefore perfectly legitimate to suspect that the government has no intention of promoting Finnish corporate responsibility in the world. It is reflected in the government’s drive down the Finnwatch organization, the only research organisation in Finland that systematically monitors the social responsibility of companies operating around the world. Thanks to the various government cuts, Finnwatch’s already modest funding is at risk of collapse. The damage is greater than its size, especially for Finnish businesses operating in developing countries. When the whole development policy is assessed by an external, independent body, why is it not possible to evaluate and develop the activities of companies by an external, independent body? The more companies are involved in development cooperation, the more needs to be assessed. Although Finnwatch’s main task is to monitor the implementation of human and labour rights and environmental impacts, it has managed to obtain information that Finnish companies have been able to use to improve their operations. Finnwatch even works for Finnish companies to highlight risks related to global operations. Finnish companies have also appreciated Finn-Watch’s operations. For example, the S Group has said: "With the help of Finnwatch, we have found something to be developed in the auditing methods we use. The activity of the organisation has also helped us to better focus our efforts on the problems that have arisen in the tuna industry in Thailand." The common interest of society and companies is reflected in the fact that a representative of the S Group is going to testify to the trial of Finnwatch's reporter in Thailand. With a written question, I have tried to get the government to justify the Finnwatch shutdown and take corporate responsibility. Regrettably, the overly shrewd response of the Minister is content to say that everything must be saved. The Government has stated on several occasions that the diminishing resources for development policy must now be allocated as efficiently and carefully as possible. I wonder very much what kind of calculations can ignore Finnwatch’s efficient and reachable activities. Or does the government have its own numbers and maths? I thank the Minister for his presence in this long debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u110	Mr President! 7.3 billion people are living on this earth at the moment. The population is projected to grow by 2030 to 8.5 billion, by the middle of the century to 9.7 billion and by the end of the century to 11.2 billion people. Some 228 million people lived on the African continent in 1950, now just over a billion. Africa’s population is projected to quadruple to 4.4 billion by the end of the century. The problem is overpopulation. The number of children must be brought to a sustainable level. Our ball can't withstand overcrowding. Development aid has been going on for about 50 years and it is therefore important that we draw conclusions from its results. Has giving money helped countries to develop? Is democracy strengthened? Has the status of women and children improved? Has development aid solved the problems that were being pursued?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u113	Madam President! The Finns have long called for changes in development aid. Money has been blamed on the world without an analysis of the impact or effectiveness of development aid. World healing and the eradication of poverty have been marketed more with images than with facts. Foreign Affairs Counsellor Matti Kääriäinen, who has seen the daily lives of development aid for decades in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' development cooperation, has written in his book "The Curse of Development Assistance" about these great, failed development projects called white elephants. One example he mentions is the fishing trawlers built at Savonlinna shipyard in Dar es Salaam in the 1970s.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u116	Värderade fru talman, fru minister! Vi diskuterar i dag den biståndspolitiska redogörelsen. Tills i år har man med orsak kunnat va ganska nöjd auri hos oss i Finland i detta skde. Vi har inte behövt skämmas för vår insats. Om man läser våra målsättningar är det inte alls svårt att hålla med om den stora bilden, vad vi vill uppnå, vad vi tror på. Men orden har ingen betydelse om inte actionnerna backar upp dem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u117	Madam President! Indeed, an effective development policy creates conditions for people in developing countries to live better, and that is why we need to ensure that the funding used for development cooperation is used efficiently and rigorously, that is, effective. One way of using development cooperation funds successfully is in Denmark, where development cooperation focuses on a few very carefully selected priorities, including environmental protection and gender equality. Denmark's development cooperation is driven by the creation of growth and jobs. The Danish people focus in particular on environmental technologies and efficient agriculture, where they have strong skills. According to this recent report, Finland should also focus on the priorities selected on the basis of our strengths. Promoting peace, honest governance, the fight against climate change and a vibrant business are issues where Finland is strong. The role of women and girls must also be strengthened by all means. Promoting access to education for girls and women is not only a humanely fair but also an effective economic policy. The World Bank estimates that annual GDP growth would increase by 5.4% worldwide if young women were left out of the labour market only to the same extent as young men. It is quite clear that huge economic growth rates would be achieved if underage girls received education and contraception and thus were on the labour market instead of being home to care for children today. A few years ago, I was allowed to participate in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ development policy training programme. Then I learned that every two minutes a woman dies in childbirth because she does not have access to health services. Every two seconds, a girl under the age of 18 gets married against her will. Every four seconds a girl under the age of 18 gives birth, and unfortunately, there are also complications, not to mention infant mortality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u120	Mr President! In the introduction, the report on development policy states: "Finland has every reason to be proud that, despite the economic situation, Finland knows how and wants to help people in great need of help. Finland itself has received many kinds of help from others in the difficult years of its history." This sentence and its mental background are a little difficult to understand. Why do we have every reason to be proud that, in spite of the almost catastrophic economic situation, we are helping remote countries into debt, even in a rather inefficient way? Who is to thank us for this, and what should we be proud of, debt or inefficiency? The report suggests that we have a duty to help when we too have been helped in many ways. In the current economic situation, there is no reason to feel guilty about our misery after World War II, which we were subjected to by an attack by a great power without our own fault. Out of that misery, we rose mainly by our own strength, no water was carried into the well. The war compensations were paid and the population of the great powers was inhabited by themselves. We have in common with the countries that are helping. In many cases, even their poor conditions are due to the acts and omissions of dictators and large companies in the major powers. However, Finland has not been a colonial power or exploited developing countries. Where is the debt of honor that we should bear on some level, like the really guilty great powers? We live on a common earth, and I personally feel a human desire to help the situation of people living in poor conditions, as far as resources and opportunities are concerned. At the moment, however, we are among the losers of globalisation and we have lost a lot of productive work abroad. There is mass unemployment and economic depression in our country. I have always said that first things should be done: care for the elderly, mental health problems, loneliness, poverty and debt to our children from the country. Then we'll help with the money that's left over when it's done. Mr President! The Green Left and the healers of the world say that things cannot be compared. It could not be compared to the fact that in many places our own old people are in classless bad conditions, that development aid is being given around the world. I hear it's different. It should be remembered that, despite the government cuts that are to be supported in itself, Finland continues to spend a sum on development aid that could, for example, provide municipal services to residents of a large city. This is the money we are talking about. It is today that we have heard about cuts in municipalities, including services for people with disabilities. It's very simple. Finns have only two tax revenues, all of which are paid: the first tax revenue of today that we ourselves pay, the second debt money that our children and grandchildren will pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u121	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Statsrådets redogörelse om Finlands utvecklingspolitik — "En vald, en gemsenem framtid, mot hållbar utveckling" heter den så vackert — påminner om en glansbild, en glansbild som ser fin ut men som inte motsvarar verkligheten. För det är på det sättet, att de planerade nedskärningarna som regeringen nu kommer att verställä, de är oroveckande stora och kommer att ha förödande consekvenser för milioner Människor runt om i världen. Och tuvarr är det ofta så, att det är barn och kvinnor som kommer att få lida när vi skär i biståndet. Vi ska inte Heller glömma bort att ett minskat bistånd också kan leda till ett minskat inflytande för Finland i internationalella organisationer, och det skulle vi på riktigt inte ha råd med.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u122	Madam President! Good Minister! The world's crises are not making things any easier; on the contrary, those crises are getting closer and closer to us. The better we are able to solve world crises at their origins, the better we will be able to increase overall security both in Finland and in the world as a whole. Development cooperation is therefore, to a great extent, also a security policy. To compromise development cooperation means to compromise our overall security. The world is constantly changing in an increasingly unstable direction, and people are flocking to seek new life beyond their homeland’s borders. It is necessary to find international solutions to calm global crises. It is necessary to help people where help is most needed. It is necessary to assume responsibility as part of the international community. It is great to note that human rights are the main thrust of the development agenda, but no amount of money will help if action is not effective and is not properly targeted. But if the funding base is removed, it will be impossible to do effective and properly targeted development cooperation. It is therefore extremely sad that Finland cuts EUR 300 million per year from development cooperation and no longer targets emissions auction revenues for development cooperation and international climate finance. Climate change is the world's biggest threat. If you are concerned about the number of asylum seekers, you should do all you can to curb climate change. New international migrations are a fact when the living conditions of the countries most affected by climate change are dramatically deteriorating. Climate refugees will increase considerably in the coming years as droughts, rising sea levels and extreme weather phenomena increase. In all its activities, Finland must try to slow down the progress of climate change. Another shameful point in Finland's development policy is Finnfund's funding. At the same time as operating conditions are cut from development organisations, Finnfund will receive EUR 90 million more than the company itself has requested. This was justified by the fact that Finnfund’s financing comes from outside the spending limits as a financial investment. However, Statistics Finland has already refuted this claim. The task of development cooperation is to reduce extreme poverty and not to support exports of Finnish companies. Finnish companies may be involved in development cooperation, but the main purpose of the activity must not be forgotten. The purpose of the development finance instruments used must not be to reduce the risk of Finnish companies, but to help developing countries. Genuine partnership and cooperation are also key to the success of Finnish companies, as the trust of the partner country is the basis for all activities. It can only be achieved by sticking to agreed agreements and acting interactively. We cannot be free passengers, we cannot close our eyes and avoid responsibility. As well-off world citizens, we must help more fragile countries. It must be based on solidarity and partnership, not on economic gain. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u123	Madam President! First of all, thank the Minister for his presentation and his contribution to the debate. It has certainly been said here in every group's speech that development policy is doing well. The money invested and other aid is of paramount importance to the recipient and, of course, to the needy, but the fact is that there are only as many people who need it as we can help. The world is not ready, but very incomplete. The difficult, very tragic problems and multi-chapter problems are present among us. Fortunately, the assistance given by Finland can be described as a high-quality and effective one. The report examines the effectiveness and promises that it will continue in the future. Above all, aid must be transparent, and one important criterion, in my opinion, is the fight against corruption, which the Minister raised here, with the development of tax collection in these developing countries. Finland has developed into a welfare state through good governance. In line with the Nordic model, we have a high tax rate, but also a high level of education, social peace, public health, regional and demographic equality, the wide potential of civil society. They certainly want to export these to other countries in a sustainable way. Of course, in addition to the eradication of corruption, all effective scrutiny is also necessary: improving health status, rising educational levels, improving housing health, girls' access to school. If you want to change the world, train a woman. Train also midwives, nurses, teachers, professionals. Thank you to the government that this report has highlighted the possibility of exporting vocational training and supporting vocational training. I believe that Finland has good educational skills and that education exports are transparent. Reaching these goals, and perhaps even pursuing the Nordic model, will in practice require institutions to act, and they must be strengthened in developing countries, but also, above all, in political, democratic institutions. The cuts in development aid are not without problems, but they can be done in a controlled manner. The organizations have done a good job, and I thank them for that. I myself have been in the work of an experienced international organisation working in a country, Haiti, after a natural disaster and even from experience, to say that natural disasters are the ones that treat developing countries the worst. And nothing really indicates at the moment that natural disasters are diminishing. Thus, these important priorities — clean technologies, sustainable energy policy, food production and water-related solutions — are essential. The United Nations Organisation for Agriculture and Rural Development (FAO) has presented worrying figures on the exit of African arable land from food production, and it is not always known where it has gone. In principle, the transport of daily food brings no added value to anyone, neither in Finland nor in more distant countries. Extensive entry, which currently causes problems, is a symptom and does not disappear without repairing or curing the cause. The problem countries near the borders of Europe today are particularly affected by the barbaric war, the attacks on the shadows, the widespread suffering of innocent civilians and the destruction of democracy. There is no easy and simple solution to these problems in these countries of origin. I guess everyone's hoping for a quick one. In fact, the Government report states that development policy is part of foreign and security policy. There is a real need for cross-administrative work, and the development policy sector must also develop.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u124	Madam President! As I mentioned in my group speech, the Finns of Peru have long been concerned about Finland's development cooperation. We have called for more effective use of money in development cooperation. The present government has now understood: the less money is poured into the pockets of the village chiefs, the better. In development cooperation, trust is good, but control is best. As I said earlier, it is very positive that the report on development policy should be carried out by the Government at all. It tells us that development policy in Finland is becoming more goal-oriented, more prudent and more rational. Personally, I am most pleased that improving the position of women and girls is being raised as the main development policy objective of the government. The promotion of the role of women is important in the interests of democracy and economic development, among other things. Every euro invested in developing countries to train women and girls will speed up the prosperity of societies, the well-being of families and contribute to reducing population growth. Every woman should have the right to participate in working life, but this is not the case at the moment. Even driving by car is not normal in certain countries. Many cultural and social practices allow unequal treatment. The development of legislation has also been uneven. Much remains to be done to achieve and improve women's and girls' rights. I am happy to contribute to this myself, although I understand very well that even Finland's efforts are not enough and that it is very difficult to get speeches into practice. However, everything is also based on the responsibility of the developing countries themselves and on the will to develop. It is better to teach them how to grow grain than to take it to them for decades. All action must be based on the aim of making developing countries stand on their own feet. There are good and bad examples of this. There is a need to learn from both examples. I welcome the increased targeting of development aid in countries of origin, reception and transit of forced migration. It is very important to influence the causes and consequences of migration from the Middle East and African countries through development aid. Humanitarian aid can help those most in need and help improve living conditions in refugees' countries of origin and neighbouring countries. This is what the Finnish Government invests most in. Finland has just promised Syria EUR 25 million in humanitarian aid, which is also intended to contribute to the mitigation of migration. The migration crisis is a very complex phenomenon that is influenced at many different levels, including this development policy in Finland. Madam President! I am a member of the Parliamentary Development Policy Committee and in that role I will follow that Finland’s development policy is responsible and effective. For my part, I am also trying to influence the Government's new initiative to monitor the outcome of development policy. I would also like to see how the government's priority for improving the position of girls and women will be reflected in practice and how the objective of developing tax systems in developing countries will be advanced. Let us first see how these government initiatives are moving forward and then consider whether Finland's development policy needs to be further changed. However, I do not think we should go back to the way we were, because now we have to do with less and at the same time understand that we cannot save the whole world, even if we want to. Madam President! As a further clarification, the opposition in particular did not want to listen to it until the end: the report last season was retro-spective. It looked at the effectiveness of Finnish development policy. This new government report is the first development policy report, that is, the first in this form.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u125	Madam President! I'll check in with a representative. From the corner, what happens to the effectiveness of Finland’s development policy when EUR 300 million is withdrawn from its funding per year and emissions auction revenues. What happens to its effectiveness when the planned projects are not implemented, the projects are not completed? And lastly, how is the goal of the Finns on voluntary donations and their tax deductions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u126	Mr President! All listeners! That is where Mrs Aalto asked questions to the Finns, and I do not know how this project is going — this, what you asked about last. I'm sure it's worth asking the ministers at Question Time on Thursday, and I'm not there to prepare. But if we come to that question of effectiveness and focus, what Mrs Aalto was talking about and thought it important that it be invested in — and that is what you were actually asking — then let us think a little about that history. Now, if we are currently spending some 800 million on development cooperation, and it has now been reported yesterday that 800 million will be spent on asylum seekers, on these processing costs, and before last year it was about 200 to 300 million euros, then we can understand that we are now dealing with the effects of previous development cooperation, which has not been successful. It is not the fault of Finland alone, and certainly not the fault of any individual country, but if you think of what President Ahtisaari said yesterday on television, for example, then the major powers, the United States and Russia, will play a key role in resolving the peace in Syria. It requires a great deal of political will, and it cannot be solved with money. And as far as this focus and effectiveness are concerned, it is in all respects in such a way that the euro does not always bring two euros in place, but that they must be well chosen. I personally believe that, even in this situation, we must look at all aspects. I would very much like us to have a lot of money, to be able to invest huge amounts in climate protection, animal protection, basic human income. I am very concerned about this economic situation in Finland, which is currently the worst development in addition to Greece. We are currently in the worst position to invest in any kind of activity of this kind. I am very sorry about that, because I myself, as a Member of Parliament for the first term, would have liked to have been able to influence, to bring a great deal of good things to this end in our policy. Here, at the beginning of the afternoon, the Minister presented these guidelines, and he explained that development cooperation focuses on each country's own tax base and its development. Unfortunately, I did not receive the floor in the debate after this speech by Minister Toivaka. Then the SDP brought up its valuable speech and viewpoints and this same taxation and its development, but later in the discussions it changed so that they praised the fact that the government has now brought these SDP tax issues to the fram, which, of course, might have made me a little smile, because the order was that the government had already told me this. This has been quite typical of the opposition here, I have noticed during the autumn that when decisions are made, then the SDP will stop saying that it was their idea. For now it does not matter who gets the idea, but somehow it feels more important to make a good policy than to steal it in whose name. Climate change is a very important issue that Mrs Aalto also spoke about. I myself am very concerned about it, and that is why it is very important — as Mr Mattila said — that we invest in the education of women and children too, because we need to remember what we are talking about very little about: this overpopulation, which we have had a lot of television lately, and what we are talking about very little about, because this earth's carrying capacity is no longer able to bear this population, it is education and health and all this kind of development that should have an impact. That would be one of those things that, of course, must be invested in in the long term. However, I was pleased that in the context of declining amounts of money, despite the fact that Syria and Iraq were now special targets. And I would use this same idea as before the elections to conclude: so that we can help others, we should help ourselves first. Even on the plane, it says in the safety manual that first you put on an oxygen mask and then help others. But let us hope that a better development can be achieved here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u127	Representative Aalto had a reply. Then there is the real speech, Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u128	Madam Speaker! I would also like to ask Mr Sea that, if the current situation of asylum seekers has been caused by bad development cooperation, how much better will it be if we cut development funds. Is it not just the opposite that it will only exacerbate the situation in the future? In Britain, the Conservative Government has decided to refrain from these cuts in development cooperation precisely for this reason. It should be remembered that Finland's decision affects not only Finland's funding, but all development cooperation, because the threshold costs less development aid if others become free travellers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u129	Mr Meri, the reply, followed by Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, I answered why targeting is more important and not just the amount of money, so I understood your question. So I said that the fact that more has been done in the past has still not solved this problem. By that I meant that targeting is always more important than just immersing money in something indefinitely. That's what I'm talking about. And unfortunately we are not in the same economic situation as Britain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u131	Madam President! Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and other listeners! To begin with, perhaps I would say that this is perhaps a bit like throwing such an idea into the air, that it is as if the effectiveness of development cooperation and its monitoring were something new or that we are now investing in the development of women and girls would be something new that would come now with this development policy report. I must remind you that this is not the case. After all, this has been the Finnish line for a long time, and it has long been followed and good results have been obtained that development cooperation funds have been well targeted and effective. And this is a very good thing that we continue to do so. This development policy programme can be congratulated on the fact that, in line with the previous programme, it has specifically identified the eradication of extreme poverty and human rights-based work as the main objective and also takes these objectives of the UN 2030 Agenda into account in a reasonable way. But, of course, this raises the question of whether words can be put into action, because these cuts in development funds are so drastic. These four priorities set out in the Government Programme — the rights of women and girls, the development of economies in developing countries, the democratic and operational capacity of societies, food capacity, access to water and energy and the sustainable use of natural resources — are good, easy to support. But I am a little surprised that one of Finland's pride and one of the largest sectors of development cooperation, education, is missing in this group. It is, of course, involved in this work with women and girls, but I would see that we could make even better use of the strength we have known in the world. When the refugees themselves are asked about their need for help, the primary desire of most is the education of children and young people. International funding to support education and training in disaster situations is far from meeting the need for support. At the same time, by supporting education, there is also the possibility of eliminating the causes of refugees. With regard to education exports, I would welcome the need to prepare its own guidelines on education exports and cooperation with development cooperation funds in cooperation with the ministries of education and foreign affairs, as well as with the organisations and educational institutions. Mr President! A great deal has also been said today about the very drastic cuts in development aid funds for organisations. This is very regrettable, because the organisations are doing an extremely good job and they are doing it at local level, together with the local communities. It is important to ensure that the activities of small organisations and the good results they have achieved are not jeopardised. It must be remembered that although Finland has chosen these priority countries in its bilateral assistance, it would be good to have the opportunity to work elsewhere in the development cooperation of organisations, because organisations often have natural links with certain areas and they are able to achieve very effective results there. It is unreasonable if we define the activities of these organisations that it should also target these official bilateral countries of the country. There has also been much discussion about the fact that companies and the introduction of Finnish expertise into this development policy in Finland have now been strongly highlighted. It is good that the private sector is involved in development policy, and increasing dialogue is not a bad idea, but it must be ensured that, through the work of companies, it is possible, on a human rights basis, to support those most in need and not to go there ahead of business interests. It is true that decades ago there were problems in development policy. We had situations where there was no need for woodpeckers in areas where there was no need for them, and this was done specifically on the terms of Finnish companies. Such mistakes must no longer be made, and it is therefore extremely important that this implementation of CSR and the involvement of the private sector in development cooperation be properly coordinated, monitored, required to report and not done at the expense of the work of the organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u132	Mr President! I would also like to comment on the argument often made in this Chamber that cuts in development aid would affect the flows of asylum seekers. This is obviously not the case because the asylum crisis started before these cuts came into effect. I am greatly puzzled by this mixing of porridge and grits. The asylum crisis is an acute issue which, if it continues, threatens the existence of the EU as a whole already this year. That is not really part of this debate. Mr President! Parliament should react strictly to the asylum crisis in order to safeguard our people and our well-being and not waste time politicising our country's future. The exploitation of the asylum system is already costing us more than development aid. It is already a major problem for us. It is a question of the fate of our country how we will combat this phenomenon as early as next summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u133	Mr President! It is certainly true that there are many more reasons for this flow of refugees than just a reduction in the budget for development cooperation. But it is also a fact that it was from the camps near Syria, when the United Nations World Food Programme ran out of money and they had to reduce this food money for refugees, that huge numbers of troops went off because they felt that they could no longer wait for the situation to improve because the conditions deteriorated so much and they went looking elsewhere for help. That, in some cases, it also has a direct impact on the number of refugee flows.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u134	At this point, I give Mr Toivaka the floor. How's the spot? Do you have a couple of minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u135	Yes, Mr President, thank you. — Thank you for this debate. In my opinion, this debate has now dealt very extensively with this development policy of ours and the hopes and views of the various parties, and I think that this is a fine excuse for the implementation that we need at this stage. I think it is wonderful that we have been able to hold this debate across the party boundaries, and I hope that this will also be the idea that goes beyond the term of government, with which we will then develop in the future, as the world changes and changes change, this important aspect of foreign and security policy is moving forward. It is now certain that this report will respond better to the situation in the world and Finland, and it is now clearly also in the Finnish toolbox in relation to how we respond to conflicts, the refugee situation, climate change. That is precisely what I would like to emphasise: this is a long-term approach. It was a little called for whether Finland does not take this line far enough — including Mrs Huovinen mentioned this — and this is a report that looks a long way. All these priorities speak for it. There has been a report and a great deal of praise for improving the position of women and girls. It is a means of long-term development of societies. Similarly, stable democracies are a means of helping these developing countries to stand on their own feet. Water, food and improved access to energy are all long-term work that brings good development results, as well as strengthening the economy of developing countries, creating new jobs and making their livelihoods there. This is very long-term work, and it is important that, in the future, as action is being developed, action, but also funding, should be directed to serve these priorities in every way. Then I would also like to mention that Finland is also strongly involved in EU development cooperation. It has become less commentary on this, but one of the instruments that Finland is currently active in areas close to Syria, for example, is the EU's development cooperation, and there is a great deal of aid being directed towards it. Just this week, for example, we learned that Damascus is creating such an EU Commission humanitarian aid office in order to get better help for people who are in distress there. It is estimated that: There are about 6.5 million internal refugees in Syria, and when the fighting has accelerated, Then I'd like to... - Can I have a few more minutes? I have a few important things I need to talk to you about. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : I agree that the Minister will receive a few minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u138	Mr President! As we have already said on many occasions today, development aid will enable us to seek to strengthen the social structures of developing countries, such as democracy, which will contribute to the social stability of developing countries and, for example, create employment opportunities in these countries. Development aid cannot, however, solve the refugee and asylum-seekers crisis alone. Political influence is needed, above all, to calm the conflicts in Syria and other Middle East conflicts. It should also be borne in mind that the majority of asylum seekers do not need protection or will receive refugee status. Therefore, solutions to the migration crisis must also be found by addressing the human smuggling business. It is also important to influence the attraction factors of European countries so that, for example, Finland is no longer seen as such an attractive target in the eyes of asylum seekers. As I mentioned earlier, the migration crisis is a very complex phenomenon that is influenced at various levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u139	Mr President! Another intellectual dishonesty in this debate on immigration, asylum and development to which I would like to comment is the issue of Syria. That intellectual dishonesty is committed not only in the Chamber of Parliament but also in the media. The truth is that we received less than a thousand Syrian asylum seekers in the whole country last year at the same time that Sweden allowed more than 20,000 Iraqi young men over our borders to be mostly refugees of living standards. What have we done to ensure that we are responsible for Iraq's failure to deal with its own affairs or to take care of or even accept its own citizens? How can development aid contribute to Syria’s becoming a pawn in a great power game?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u140	Mr President! The less pushing factors, the less compelling reasons to leave your own country. Development cooperation can reduce those pushing factors and contribute to curbing the flow of asylum seekers. For this reason, development cooperation is also a part of the asylum-seekers situation. Finally, anyone who says that development cooperation has achieved absolutely nothing knows absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u141	Mr President! I was a little puzzled whether Aalto just admitted that the asylum system was being used as an instrument of living standards of living. There is talk of pushing factors and the urgent need to leave the country. As I understand it, it refers to the need for life — or at least it should.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-17-ps-9.u142	When the name is mentioned, I just want to say that there are pushing factors that vary. For example, droughts, floods, conflicts, wars are pushing factors. There are a lot of different pushing factors that take away the prerequisites of life in their own home country, and then we go to find a new place to start a life. This has nothing to do with the refugee of living standards and therefore with Mr Mäkelä's question.
