ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 29 March 2016. In the debate, Jari Myllykoski, supported by Harry Wallin, has proposed that the bill be rejected. Mats Nylund, supported by Thomas Blomqvist, has proposed that Parliament approve the proposal for a statement under protest 2. With the support of Jari Myllykoski, Hanna Sarkkinen has made three statements, which have been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u2	First, we have to vote on the adoption or rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u3	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u4	I meant to vote differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u5	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u6	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 29 March 2016. Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Mrs Salonen, has put forward a proposal on the grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u7	Finally, the proposal for a statement of reasons in the debate will be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u8	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Let's start a conversation. This is presented by Mr Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u9	Mr President! Today's discussion is about the government's proposal for a law on book-entry systems and clearing and settlement, as well as some related laws. Although the discussion around the presentation has previously only been condensed with the fate of holding shares in the Finnish book-entry system, the main content of the proposal is much wider than this issue. In particular, the proposal provides for the operation of CSDs. In addition to the stock exchange, the CSD is therefore part of an infrastructure supporting the trading of securities. On the one hand, it is the responsibility of the CSD to provide services to listed companies for the issue of shares and other securities and, on the other hand, to ensure, together with depositors, such as banks, that the buyer receives the price of the shares and sellers he has bought into his account after the share transaction, for example. The purpose of the proposal is to make changes to national legislation resulting from the entry into force of the so-called CSD Regulation of the European Union. The EU Regulation entered into force in September 2014 and is directly applicable in Finland. A number of provisions on CSD and clearing and settlement are laid down in the EU Regulation instead of our national laws. However, there are no EU rules on the book-entry system itself and on the activities of accountants, such as banks, and there is still a need for national regulation in this respect. Mr President! The EU CSD Regulation harmonises the regulation of securities clearing and settlement activities. The Regulation opens the CSD business to competition and allows CSDs to provide cross-border services through a so-called EU passport. In addition, securities can be transferred from one CSD to another through links between CSDs. It may be considered unlikely that new CSDs will be established directly on the Finnish market. Central securities depositories and account managers operating in Finland must guarantee the direct registration of the ownership of the shares of the Finnish issuer, i.e. the listed company, to Finnish shareholders. This is more expensive to implement than, for example, management registration. One of the most important changes introduced by the EU regulation is that a Finnish listed company has the right to choose the CSD that it uses in the EU area – so there are roughly 126 listed companies on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. If a Finnish listed company issues shares in another EU country, the EU CSD Regulation and the legislation of that country apply to the holding of shares. It is possible that Finnish holdings of shares by Finnish investors are also registered in the systems of the foreign CSD. Finland cannot restrict the EU regulation or the legislation of other countries by its own legislation. However, there is no known situation in which a Finnish company has exercised its right of choice under the EU Regulation and issued shares in a foreign book-entry system. Mr President! The Government does not propose an extension of the management registration. The law would continue to prohibit Finnish accountants, such as banks, from registering Finnish investors' shares in the Finnish book-entry system. In line with the current situation, foreign investors could continue to use management registration in Finland. I repeat: the Government's proposal does not include an extension of the management registration in Finland, but in the Finnish book-entry system direct management of shares remains mandatory. Finland therefore explicitly applies the exemption rule of the EU Regulation. This ensures that public disclosure of share ownership is in line with the current situation in Finland. Banks and investment firms have been free to provide investment services through EU regulation in 2014. The storage of shares is an investment service that foreign banks and investment firms can also offer to Finnish investors. If the foreign investment service provider does not operate in Finland’s book-entry system, the prohibition of management registration goes well abroad. This government proposal does not propose to amend the regulation on the provision of investment services because we cannot impose additional restrictions on EU regulation by national legislation. The provision of investment services is part of the free movement of services. Mr President! To summarise the key points: 1) The bill does not include an extension of management registration in Finland. 2) The right of a Finnish listed company to choose a foreign CSD is directly monitored by the EU Regulation that entered into force in autumn 2014. A stock exchange company chooses a CSD and the law applicable to the system comes with its choice. We therefore do not have the possibility, as in Finland, to restrict the EU regulation or the national legislation of other EU countries. 3) Public access to information by public authorities and public disclosure of shares will remain at the current level in Finland if the shares have been issued in a Finnish CSD. 4) The management registration is used in several EU countries. The system of direct ownership is maintained in Finland and is also in place in Norway, Bulgaria, Greece, Malta, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey. 5) The prohibition of management registration does not impose restrictions on the Finnish investor but on his bank. A bank operating in a Finnish book-entry system may not enter in a management registered account the ownership of a Finnish investor in a Finnish listed company. (6) Access to information by public authorities abroad is subject to EU rules on information exchange and bilateral agreements between States. Finland has been and will continue to be active in this process. Mr President! The Act is intended to enter into force at the beginning of July this year. Last but not least: every CSD in Europe must reapply for authorisation, and so must Euroclear Finland in Finland. For this process, national legislation must be compatible with the EU Regulation in order to handle the application for authorisation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u10	Did I just see Mr. Sarkkinen? The answer to that question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u11	Mr President! It seems that once again the financial district management register is being tried to swim to Finland, but this time through the kitchen. Of course, the draft law on the retention of securities under consideration does not in itself propose allowing the registration of management in Finland, but does leave the door open to the loss of publicity of ownership and facilitate the concealment of ownership and tax evasion. Mr President! The problem with the bill is that Finns are able to own their property abroad through the management register. The bill allows Finns to be owned indirectly through a controlled book-entry account in foreign CSDs, i.e. Finns would no longer be required to own securities directly if the holdings were held in a foreign CSD. And, Mr President, Finland can oblige companies and investors to comply with certain rules, such as this direct ownership.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u12	Madam President! Minister of Finance, you are quite a tough guerrilla. Last autumn, when this project of yours drives a management register to Finland due to the pressure of the opposition and the citizens on it, you announced that you would give up this project and said that now the opportunity to register has been buried and buried, this project of yours has been buried and buried. It seems that at least it has not been buried very deeply, because now you are trying to give this an opportunity. You are trying to give the possibility that a Finnish company can register its management through foreign countries. And contrary to what you say, you would have the opportunity to deny this, but knowingly bring this sort of presentation here. Mr President! Does this happen again that you will have to correct the motion or withdraw it, or are you going to stick to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u13	Madam President! I'm sure there's been some difficulty with understanding here. The Minister there has just stated that the Governance Register Act will not be taken forward. And this book-entry issue, the opportunity to act as before, has come from the EU in 2014 when your Finance Minister was in office. If it doesn't feel right, why wasn't it interfered?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u14	Madam President! It is absolutely true, as the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, said, that the government's proposal is not directly allowing the Finnish people to register for management in the same way as last autumn, i.e. by removing the ban on this management registration, but Finland would also have the full possibility allowed by the Commission to require the current model of direct ownership. But is this what the government is going to do? This is the big question. And if new legislation is introduced now, there is a risk that, in the future, a completely new legislation will be introduced, that possible mistakes will be possible later in the framework of EU legislation to be corrected again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u15	Mr President! Last autumn, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was able to familiarise itself with this legislative project and, of course, it was a surprise, personally, that it would return to Parliament so quickly. The Finnish model is a good model, as Mrs Aalto has just pointed out, and when we look at EU legislation and this regulation, Article 38, at least I am and many experts believe that Finland has the freedom to interpret it in the same way as we have done in the past. In this respect, Minister, are you aware of what this regulation makes possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u16	Madam President! Four months ago, the Finance Minister, Mr Stubb, assured us that the management register would have to be introduced because of pressure from the EU, but that was not true what you said at the time. Fortunately, in the previous government, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the Demors were tough and negotiated the exception specifically so that it would enable the Finnish investors to continue to have direct ownership. It is a good thing that you now admit that what you said four or five months ago was not true. But then you also said that the government is not preparing the management register again in any form, and you said that the management register has been buried and buried. It's only been four months. Now you're about to re-bring through the kitchen this access to the control register. The question is: how short do you think political memory is?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u17	Madam President! Indeed, what we are trying to do here is what we need to do, that is to say, this CSD regulation, and although I am a representative of the opposition party, I must say that I do cook at the point when the false claims are made in this Chamber, and I really find it strange why we are now trying to make this a management register proposal, even though this clearly puts the securities regulation into effect. When I myself have been in the European Parliament specifically to get this EU regulation's Finland exemption in there, I think it is excellent that we can continue to have direct ownership in Finland, and that is the most important thing we have achieved in the last period. In that sense, I hope that we will continue to pursue that line of direct ownership, but we will take into account what the competitive situation in the EU requires, and then we will have to implement this regulation in other respects. I would have asked the Minister of State how this issue of publicity can then be secured here. Let me know if anyone's gonna change in this publicity thing. That is, in my opinion, the key issue now. For the rest, I hope that it will indeed be understood that the securities regulation is now being implemented. Finland’s exception clause will remain there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u18	Mr President! This control register really seems to be this kind of weird bug. It swam here again and again, even though Parliament has clearly stated on various occasions that it does not want arrangements to hide ownership. You might even think that this option of hiding from abroad is the worst option for us. This will lead to a lack of information and then there will be a number of other problems through this concealment, also in relation to the tax consequences. When it is said here that this EU regulation would, however, allow us to impose stricter national standards on Finnish operators as well as on foreign activities, I would like to ask the Minister: has the Minister familiarised himself with this point, i.e. have you asked whether Finland can make stricter legislation in this regard, which also forces Finns abroad to act in accordance with our laws?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u19	Madam President! When this government proposal states that the proposal must be submitted as a matter of urgency, I would ask the Minister: what will happen if Finland now refuses to do this and does not implement what the EU regulation requires?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u20	Madam President! I feel really weird about this conversation here. We cannot escape the impression that some form of vamping or deception is now in the hands of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u21	Madam President! I am surprised at the opposition's attitude on these issues. You're digging up all the terrible fears about some deep black pit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u22	Madam President! It has been known that the Coalition Party and Minister Stubb are driving this project bullheadedly, but it is now news that the centre has joined this group. No one here has objected to the introduction of legislation under this securities regulation here, let it be made clear. And as far as this question is concerned, which Mr Essayah raised, yes, we must put in place our own legislation, and we shall not object to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u25	Mr President! The opposition doesn't scare you or the bogeymans. Last autumn, the opposition strongly pointed out that we have negotiated an exemption from the securities regulation, that we do not have to accept management registration, that we have corrected the Minister's incorrect information. That is precisely the task of the opposition. And it is clear that the CSD Regulation must be put into effect, but what we are criticising is that the promised management registration or concealment of property that has been buried and buried is now being imported through this motion through the back gate, and we want to block this back gate. I would like Mr Hoskonen to be on the same path as, for example, the representative of the city centre. Mr Anttila was still a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy last autumn — he said that this should not be promoted — and that the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy had been very critical in public at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u26	Madam President! Although Finnish companies have been able to issue shares in foreign book-entry systems since September 2014, there is no known case that such a thing has ever happened. This possibility exists today, and unambiguously, as the Minister put it, thanks for the presentation, we are not in this proposal to extend the management registration anywhere. I would now like to hear from the opposition these views on what kind of national laws we can supposedly draw up, in which we could restrict the EU regulation or foreign law. At least I do not know that such laws can be passed. I would also like to remind you that this is not only the Ministry of Finance but also the Ministry of Justice's assessment that this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u27	Mr President! Indeed, the Minister of Finance should pay attention to what he says. The Minister stressed three times that the book-entry bill does not extend the management registration in Finland, the key word is "in Finland", but this proposal extends abroad. Today, illegal practices become legal. There is therefore a loophole in the performance that will wreck this excellent model of Finland. We heard that Finland cannot influence the operations of foreign management registers. Of course not, but Finland and the Finnish Parliament are free to do so and it is its duty to enact a law that prevents Finnish citizens from transferring ownership to a foreign management register. Minister Stubb, will such a law be included in the legislative package so that this excellent Finnish model can be preserved, as the very strong national will required last winter? Maybe you remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u28	Mr President! This reminds me of the saying that the worker has earned his salary. I'm sure the Minister of Finance will get a slump for his salary in this Chamber. This CSD Regulation. The government proposal has now been submitted. After all, it's different than what was once on the spot and on the table. As far as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is concerned, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is taking up this government proposal next week. We will deal with it very carefully, and with regard to the situations of fear or the words that have been said here, we all have a common will that transparency is maintained. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I think it will be considered that the common will of all of us in this respect will also be achieved through legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u29	Mr President! If there are problems in understanding my belongings in this Chamber, then I feel that it is with the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u32	Madam President! I have the impression that one of the fundamental pillars of the EU is the free movement of capital. If it is now being proposed in this Chamber on the part of the opposition that a law should be passed to prevent Finnish citizens from exporting capital abroad and investing it there, as they wish, in compliance with EU law, then this debate is quite extraordinary. However, I would now urge a little assessment of the fact that if, in due course, we have entered the EU, then the principles will be adhered to. If, then, we want to break up with the EU and move on to the mark, then the Väyrysen initiative will come, you can support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u33	Madam President! We really cannot prevent a management register from being a very common form in the rest of Europe. Even today, it is quite legal to set up an investment company in another country and thus invest in Finnish shares and pay taxes on them normally in the country where this investment company happens to be. There is nothing about it that is in some way like tax evasion or in some way criminal activity. In that sense, I feel that this debate is rather extraordinary. I would therefore like to see real understanding that we are not giving up that good system of direct ownership in Finland. Certainly, when I myself have been promoting this issue in the European Parliament, I hope that it will continue and that transparency in our Finnish ownership will remain. Indeed, I would appeal to the Minister to be particularly careful about this aspect of publicity now to indicate whether anything will change with regard to this publicity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u34	Still representatives of Aalto, Kalmari, Skinner, Hoskonen, Sarkkinen, and then I offer the minister an opportunity to respond, and then we will see if we want to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u35	Madam Speaker! It would be perfectly sufficient for the proposal to state that a Finnish company has a free right to issue in any EU Member State. However, in this case it should be possible to demand — and Finland has the full possibility given by the Commission — that a CSD located in the country in question should also provide direct accounts enabling the company to maintain up-to-date lists of shareholders. This could also be done in this context, with sanctions being imposed if someone is acting in another way. That way we can control this management registration. You have every chance you have. The Commission gives Finland a good model for survival. It's up to you to decide how to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u36	Madam President! Finland’s good model will remain, and we really cannot influence the European management register centres by means of Finnish legislation. But I wanted to speak because I know that Mr Stubb, the Minister of Finance, and the other people who have influenced the EU, have taken this principle of transparency very much forward. I would like to ask if the Minister could open this up a little bit. What steps are being taken to ensure that tax evasion is not possible in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u37	Mr President! Why are we worried? According to a study carried out in 2010, some EUR 800 million of international investment revenues were not reported, which means that we are talking about a big issue. In this regard, I would like to say that I would ask you to look at this regulation as well, to read it out of the word at EU level, because what the experts are saying here in Brussels and here in Helsinki does give an entirely different picture from what has been discussed here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u40	Madam President! It is good that in the previous speeches Mr Essayah and Mr Eestilä have indeed pointed out that in Finland the arrangements are in order and that this matter is now being discussed complements this European Union obligation on us and we are updating this regulation in this country. It must also be borne in mind that business is seeking out areas where business is profitable. If we start making compulsory rules — when, as Mr Eestilä said, we have chosen this open economy of the European Union, where businesses are free to choose the country where they are located — are the companies here or are they going south of the bay or where they are going? The important thing is to get this Finnish economy in order. For example, this social pact, which has been twisted for a very long time now, is one step in this chain to make this Finnish system play, create jobs and restore the state economy. At the same time, it has a very positive impact on households. If we continue to see bogeymen in every case, it will lead to fear of us, and no company in such a country will even want to invest, let alone consider any other activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u43	Mr President! There is indeed a need to coordinate Finnish legislation with EU regulation. This coordination has been delayed, as the Ministry of Finance has wanted to use this need for reform as an excuse to transfer the management register to Finland repeatedly. Three management registrations have already fallen and, at the same time, this necessary reform of the legislation has been completed. We need legislative reform, but we do not need an extension of management registration. According to the EU legislation, companies are indeed entitled to choose where to issue their securities, and Finland cannot prescribe how foreign CSDs operate. Instead, Finland can legislate to oblige Finnish companies or investors to comply with certain rules. Unfortunately, however, this bill does not, for example, provide the company with a requirement to know the real owners or Finnish investors if they use management registers. These are the ways we should think about, because we do not want to facilitate tax evasion, do we?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u44	Then Minister Stubb, five minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u45	Mr President! Thank you for your questions and comments. Perhaps at this start two general observations. Then I'll try to defuse the mist of good questions we just heard. The first general observation is, of course, that the entire CSD Regulation is based on one of the fundamental freedoms of the EU, namely the free movement of capital within our territory. The second point relates to the role of the regulation in EU legislation. As such, it applies directly to our national legislation, unlike, for example, a directive which, as it were, must bring into our legislation but which is not applied as such. We certainly have a deviation from the administrative registers here. Here are some questions. Perhaps the first was why Finnish investors are allowed to register their Finnish shareholdings abroad, is it not contrary to Finnish law — it was perhaps one of such a series of questions that appeared. I would like to stress again that this bill does not include an extension of management registration in Finland, as many people said along the way, but this does not affect foreign law. If a Finnish listed company issues shares in another EU country, the EU CSD Regulation and the legislation of that country will apply. Governance registration, as I said, is in place in most EU countries, such as Sweden and Germany, and our own legislation cannot restrict this EU regulation or legislation in other countries. That is the starting point for this. Another question group that started: In fact, the question is whether the management registration is involved in this performance. Yes, I am still saying that we are not proposing an extension of the management registration. In the future, the law will explicitly prohibit account holders, such as banks, from registering Finnish investors' shares in the Finnish book-entry system. Then there were the questions as to why we do not limit what an investor is doing. Congressman Lindtman, why don't we limit the investor's actions to that? Well, the investor's obligation to use a direct account abroad would not be based on any EU provision. This would therefore be a purely national additional regulation, which would only apply to Finnish companies' shares. The basic problem here is that if we look at the Helsinki Stock Exchange, according to the last figures I have seen — and I am careful with percentages — about 46 per cent of the Helsinki Stock Exchange is owned by foreigners. Of course, our fear at this stage is that if this proposal were to guide investors to invest in foreign shares or other securities, this could have negative long-term effects on the ability of Finnish companies to raise capital, investment and hence employment. Small listed companies and listed companies in particular would suffer from this. In addition, there is no investor-supervised authority in Finland, i.e. activities abroad could not even be controlled from Finland. Then there was a series of questions, as it were, relating to publicity, access to government information and the exchange of tax information. The list of shareholders is therefore still available just as before, i.e. the list of shareholders issued in Finland, from Euroclear Finland, as it is now, and the list of shareholders already shows the final owner and the administrator of the management registration. Again, the ownership list of the shares issued abroad is available from the company's head office, and the shareholders list shows either the final owner or the administrator of the management registration. Access to government information: it will require a great deal of exchange of information, and that is what we are constantly trying to address and focus on, both at OECD level and at EU level and, of course, through agreements between states. In other words, the access of tax authorities to information is secured by international automatic exchange of tax information, and the information obtained through the international automatic exchange of information is primarily available to tax authorities only. There was more or less the question group I just wrote on it. Perhaps Mr Turusen will take it into account: Indeed, this is going to committee. I think it is extremely accurate and extremely important that the committee should go through this with all due respect. Of course, we've been through that on a number of occasions. I think three rounds of the management register were mentioned here by our various authorities, in our ministries, and of course it has also happened, as Mr Skinner may have said, on several occasions in the committees. It is now worth looking at what is possible within the framework of EU law and our legislation and then consulting experts on it. We have now based this proposal on the best available information, and this proposal – and I would stress this once again – does not include an extension of the management registration in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u46	Then, obviously, there is still a desire to continue the debate, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u47	Madam President! First of all, no one here has suggested that Finnish legislation should begin to regulate foreign CSDs. That's not possible. But what can be done, which I think you have just acknowledged, is that we could, by our own legislation, ban Finnish companies from registering management through foreign countries. But you just said you didn't want to do it. So this kind of opportunity exists. So this loophole, which has now been planted here, is possible to plug in, and otherwise there is a model: the VM's official memo 2014. There is a ready-made model, but you do not want to introduce it. And worst of all, now that this loophole remains here, it could jeopardise this exemption rule for Finland. It is only on condition that national legislation has not been repealed, amended or its objectives are no longer relevant. This loophole could endanger Finland's derogation. I hope that's not your goal behind this whole idea when you brought this loophole. Once again, why are you driving this thing like a snake into a gun?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u48	Madam President! We urgently need Finnish work, and Finnish work comes from investments, and investment needs capital. If we have different legislation in Finland for our own capital, what will happen to Finnish work? A question for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u49	Mr President! In fact, Minister Stubb avoided this question with the flexibility of the construer. The fact is that this proposal extends the management registration, not in Finland but abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u51	Mr President! First of all, this public publicity, which has been raised in many speeches: the Minister of Finance's own official has said, among other things, to YLE that if Finnish investors start using this management register through foreign countries and if no measures are taken to close these loopholes in Finland, it will affect public access, which is probably not going to remain at the current level. I too would like to repeat the questions to the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, as to why the government is not using the opportunities the government has to plug these loopholes. In other words, why does the government not, for example, require these CSDs to provide directly ownership accounts under this Article 38 derogation, and will the government propose sanctions for those who violate a management registration ban?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u52	Madam President! Since I believe and assume that Mr Stubb, the Minister for Finance, will answer Mr Haraka's and Mr Andersson's question, I would like to ask a different question. The government's proposal raises the question of whether the government intends not to actively exploit the Finland exemption, i.e. the continuation of the system of direct ownership. Here people have the fear that it is as if the gates are opening, that Finnish companies can start to issue shares in, among other things, a Luxembourg CSD that offers nothing but that management registration. We want to block this loophole. There are ways to do that. Answer me, how do you want to do it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u53	Mr President! I would like to say that the situation here is that access to or listing Finnish capital would not work. After all, we have had a great situation in that, contrary to what is often claimed, there have been more listings on our stock markets and, in that sense, the listing has picked up. And I would also like to say that the Finnish model is still very price-competitive. Pays about one lunch, about 7 euros, to make one deal when it for example There may be about 20 euros in London.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u54	Mr President! The current CSD Regulation guarantees the preservation of Finland's current direct ownership model. And the Finnish model is the best from the point of view of effective taxation and the fight against the shadow economy. However, the exemption rule will remain in force only as long as national legislation has not been amended or repealed and its objectives remain valid. If Finland now slips away from its demand for direct ownership of Finns and its vision of the aimability and best interests of direct ownership, it is questionable whether this very good exception clause negotiated by Finland is still in force. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether you see this as a threat or whether this is perhaps even the reason for the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u55	Madam President! The news of this debate is that you admitted that it would be possible to adopt such national legislation to support this loophole. But you said that there is no desire to do so, that you do not want to make national regulation for Finnish companies, because you fear that access to finance for companies will be weakened. Well, that is not true either, namely this correction that we have proposed to correct this loophole in Stubb, would only apply to the Finnish companies that switch to a foreign book-entry system. And you can also ask the question of whether access to finance for these companies would suffer significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u56	Secretary Stubb, three minutes. That's a place you can talk about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u57	Thank you, Mr President. A few comments on these questions. The first relates to what happens to Finnish work. And, of course, whenever we talk about economic entities, it is difficult to see the importance of the financial markets for the overall economy. They work like blood vessels in one way or another: without financial markets we do not have companies, and without companies we do not have growth, goods, services, and without these we do not have products either. We aim, of course, to maximise both Finnish and international capital in Finland and thus to ensure that the blood vessels of the body will also be employed in the future. It will then be accompanied by this implementation of the actual EU regulation. There's a lot of use here for the word "pork hole", including maybe "snake for a gun" has been here a few times. Once again, I would like to say that there is no loophole in the system, nor has there been any attempt to run a management register like a snake into a gun, but this proposal comes directly from the EU regulation, and we cannot restrict it by domestic means. The last point relates to listings and these investments. Yes, there is a small positive base on the Helsinki Stock Exchange, representative Skinneri. We currently have 126 companies on the Helsinki Stock Exchange, and in fact five have come last year, while the First North is currently 16, and I think there are seven more last year. And of course our objective is to list as many Finnish companies as possible, but that also means that we are not going to radically restrict our financial markets and stick to the EU legislation that is being brought to us. We have an exception to the management registration now, and it is precisely through the debate that we have had both in public and in other words along the way. And now, after that, this proposal will be passed on to the committees and to the expert hearings. Let's see if there are any more specific issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u58	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u59	Mr President! First of all, thank the Minister for Finance for the answers and good debate. In fact, the big issues have already been raised here, and I am sure the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will, at the end of the day, take a position on them. But when I really want to say something positive, I would also like to say from this Finnish model that, yes, the Finnish transparency and, you might say, the existence of such up-to-date information is something of which we must, of course, hold on and hold on to. At the same time, we have the opportunity to develop digital services with this Finnish model, for example, to create Finnish innovations, which we have just seen, namely Finnish work and research, because the sector is, as we know, very global. But you have to make changes, it's perfectly clear, and you have to follow the settings. But in what way and how are they interpreted? That's a good question. In this context, it should always be remembered that Parliament has the opportunity to decide on a number of issues — whether it is in Finland or abroad — when it comes to Finland and Finnish investors. In reality, it is clear that Finland cannot regulate the legislation of other countries, but Finland can also in practice require Finnish companies and Finnish investors to comply with Finnish regulation, i.e. compliance with Finnish regulation, regardless of where, how and when the investor operates.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u60	Mr President! The proposal to allow Finnish investors to register securities was hit hard last year, and good, because experts, such as tax authorities, prosecutors, Customs and the police, believe that opening up management registration would facilitate tax evasion and hide ownership and reduce transparency in society. Currently, direct ownership of securities is required in Finland, i.e. the actual owner of the security is entered in the register. To allow management registration would mean that only the custodian of the security, usually the bank, would be registered as the owner instead of the real beneficiaries of the securities, and this would facilitate the concealment of ownership and tax evasion. The draft law on the retention of securities under consideration does not in itself provide for the authorisation of a management registration in Finland, but it leaves the door open to the destruction of the publicity of ownership and facilitates the concealment of ownership and tax evasion abroad. Finland negotiated an exemption rule for itself in the EU Securities Regulation to allow direct ownership of Finnish investors in the future. However, it now seems that this proposal seeks to water down the exemption provision of the regulation negotiated by Finland, which maintains the ban on management registration for Finns in Finland and other EU countries. If the exemption rules are watered down, it is likely that the actual registration will also be permitted in Finland in the near future. The problem with the bill is that Finns are able to own their property abroad through the management register. The bill allows Finns to be owned indirectly through a controlled book-entry account in foreign CSDs, i.e. Finns would no longer be required to own securities directly if the holdings were held in a foreign CSD. The bill does oblige Finnish companies to ensure by contracts that they receive information from a foreign CSD for the purposes of the shareholder list. However, it is not required that these shareholder lists include the actual owner, but, for example, only the name of the bank holding the management register is sufficient. Mr President! The government's proposal would undermine public publicity, as it would facilitate the transfer of ownership abroad beyond the reach of the Finnish police, prosecutor, tax authorities and the media. The investigation of abuse would be more difficult if Finns could register their holdings abroad. By making it easier to manage the registration and thus reducing the risk of capture, the registration of individuals would probably increase rapidly and thus the capital tax revenue collected could be reduced even in a few years. Under EU law, companies have the right to choose where to issue their securities, and Finland is indeed not in a position to determine how foreign CSDs operate. On the other hand, Finland could, if it wished, legislate to oblige Finnish companies or investors to comply with certain rules if they wanted to do so. Finland's legislation needs to be coordinated with EU regulation, and this coordination has unfortunately been delayed due to these management registration cycles, but hopefully the necessary reform work will now be completed. Mr President! I hope the bill will be corrected during committee reading. This could be done, for example, by requiring Finnish companies to choose only a market where investors can open accounts in their own names and by requiring companies to know their owners. The law should also state clearly that: Finland wants to preserve the public and the storage model for the protection of direct ownership. In addition, it would be necessary to sanction the violation of the prohibition of management registration. At the moment, management registration is illegal for Finnish investors, but it is not actually punishable. Mr President! The maximum transparency of ownership is important for ensuring the tax base of countries and for combating crime. The market economy can only function if key players are transparent and honest and all information is available. Hidden ownership also increases the risk of market disruption and crises while reducing the tax base of states and allowing crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u61	Mr President! The register has become a form of eternal movement of Finnish politics. Time and again, attempts have been made to promote competition or reduce the costs of Finnish shareholders to propose an extension of the management registration to Finnish owners as well, thus undermining the public publicity of shareholdings and the information available to public authorities. Even in this bill, there is a register of management once again, albeit in a circular manner. This is an unusual situation, since the Finance Minister, Mr Stubb, announced just about four months ago that the government will not re-prepare the management register in any form and that the management register has been buried and buried. Currently in Finland, the Finnish owner cannot use the management register, but the ownership is registered directly in the right owner's own name as a CSD. With the EU CSD Regulation aimed at harmonising CSD activities in different EU countries and increasing competition, it will be possible for a Finnish company to issue shares through foreign CSDs in the future. Under the EU Regulation, EU CSDs must provide customers with at least two different stock storage models. You can use either a jointly separated account, i.e. a so-called tile, which may have several different customers' holdings, or an individualised account with only one customer's holdings. According to the interpretation of the Ministry of Finance, an individualised account may be either directly owned or managed through a bank. In the view of the VM, it is not possible to define in Finnish legislation how securities preservation and individual customer separation are organised in the systems of a foreign CSD or its party. The requirement for direct ownership of own names would therefore apply only to situations in which the shares of a Finnish company are organised through a Finnish CSD. For this reason, this proposal does create a situation in which Finns could register their holdings abroad. This means that public access to ownership will be weakened and public authorities' access to information will be significantly reduced. This interpretation has been confirmed, inter alia, by an official of the Ministry of Finance who, in an interview with the Finnish Broadcasting Company, stated that when public access is in practice dependent on what is provided for abroad, then if CSD activity moves abroad, it is unlikely that public access will remain at the current level. Mr President! During the last term of the government, Finland was involved in negotiating the CSDS Regulation with the aim of allowing direct ownership in those countries where this good and effective practice is currently in place. It states that the CSD and its participants shall offer individual customer separation to citizens and residents of a Member State and to legal persons established therein where this is required in accordance with the national law of the Member State under which the securities were created. This obligation shall apply for as long as national law has not been amended or repealed and its objectives remain valid. The considerable risk of this proposal lies in the fact that Finland is now changing its legislation in a way that jeopardises the future application of this exemption rule. The current government is therefore watering down the exemption rule, which the previous government worked towards in order to preserve this model, which is based on direct ownership, which is used in Finland. Although, according to the VM’s interpretation, Finland cannot bind a foreign CSD under its own legislation, Finland may impose a direct ownership requirement on Finnish investors. In the context of previous consultations, more than one party has proposed that the violation of the prohibition of management registration should be sanctioned. That would be one way to ensure that the publicity of ownership continues in Finland. The government should also make it clear that there is a desire to preserve the publicity of ownership and the preservation of publicity. While companies will be free to issue their shares anywhere in the EU, it should be required that foreign CSDs provide direct ownership accounts. In addition, the Left Alliance is in favour of introducing a withholding tax on management registered dividends, as this would enable us to address the problems associated with the current management register. Finally, Mr President, I very much hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will look carefully at this proposal, and that all the possibilities that we have under national law to close these loopholes will also be carefully investigated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u62	Mr President! One fact has become clear in this debate: the registration of management is expanding. Not in Finland, but abroad. At the moment, illegal proceedings would become legal. We heard arguments that the EU is demanding it. No, it doesn't. I repeat: the EU will not prevent us from adopting legislation that would not undermine the openness and transparency of Finnish ownership. We can and must make the relevant laws here in the Finnish Parliament, and we must do so because the Minister of Finance has either not heard or understood the very strong national will expressed in favour of the Finnish model last winter. That is what the public wanted, I believe the majority of the parliament and about 90% of the authorities that issued the opinion: the police, the Tax Administration and Customs. The right of Finnish investors to register abroad would destroy the exception that Finnish European parliamentarians — one of whom Sirpa Pietikäinen, a key partner of the Minister’s party, fought for. Even at the risk of repetition: this legislative package must be accompanied by legislation that preserves the Finnish model and does not allow it to become watered down. It is very unusual that the Minister has not even clarified such an option. He was rather ignorant and uncertain as to whether he could make his own legislation and appealed to the committee to clarify it. It is quite incredible that the Minister of Finance has been continuing this opera for many years but has not clarified this point: can Finland’s excellent model be kept unwatered? Have the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance really not understood or do they not want to understand why the last bill hit the wall? The Finnish model must therefore be defended. The Finnish model must be defended primarily because it is better and more modern than in most European countries. The Minister of Finance has stated on several occasions, underestimating that direct and open holdings of securities are compulsory in only a few countries, as if this in itself were a reason to undermine a legal act that is better in Finland than elsewhere. In many European countries, a bicycle helmet is not compulsory — should we therefore weaken our own law and reduce the safety of children in road transport? The Minister of Finance has also stated, inter alia, in this Chamber on 26 November that 'the cold fact is that today, if a Finnish wishes to hide its stock abroad, it is very easy to do so'. And when he was told that it was illegal, he said that it was, of course, illegal. It is very unusual that the Minister of Finance justifies the government's proposal that, since illegal activity is easy, it should be legalised. The correct answer is, of course, that illegal activities must be punished. So there is a need for a law that is now lacking. Is that possible? Yes, it is. This is news for Secretary Stubb. In fact, the Ministry of Finance proposed this itself two years ago, so all we have to do is go back to the previous version of the bill. The Ministry of Finance itself suggested that politically influential persons should not transfer their holdings from Finland to a foreign management register. None of this was required by the EU regulation. So if it was possible to prevent Finnish ownership from being hidden abroad two years ago, it is apparently possible today, according to the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the EU Regulation does not require the transparency of Finnish ownership to be undermined as long as these necessary additions to the legislation are made. Once again: Contrary to what the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance claim, Finland does not have to weaken its own law, but the EU regulation actually works the opposite way, it brings the rest of Europe closer to Finland. After all, the Regulation requires those countries where CSDs only provide aggregated, i.e. managed, accounts, to provide individualised accounts. They do not in all cases reflect the ultimate holder of ownership, but it is quite possible to tighten up the regulation. At the same time, the EU has a strong will and energy to prevent tax evasion and tax avoidance. The proposals for directives are now before Parliament. The programme against non-taxable incomes, the shadow economy and money laundering would be more effective if ownership across Europe were direct and public, as in Finland. Instead of submissiveness by the government in the face of EU regulations that have been perverted, Finland can promote anti-tax evasion in Europe by its own example by resolutely defending direct and public ownership. The fact is, then, Mr President, that this bill would lead to an increase in the registration of management. One can only wonder, in disbelief, at this opera, where the registration of control is brought back to Parliament — the first time the horns of the swamps, the second time the lantern has been extinguished. It would have been thought that an exceptionally strong national will would have obliged the Finnish Government to defend and protect the Finnish model. That's not what happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u63	Madam President! It's the same message as Congressman Haraka, with less rhetoric. The problem is, therefore, that management registration is indirectly permitted by the fact that Finland is not actively taking advantage of the so-called Finland exception, i.e. requires the current direct ownership system to continue in a changing situation when CSD activity is opened up to competition. And if this is done, as the government proposes, Finnish companies can start to issue their shares, for example. Luxembourg, which offers nothing other than management registration. If current legislation is repealed and replaced, it will be difficult to correct future problems. This is because the EU CSD Regulation allows the status quo to be maintained only as long as the relevant legislation is in force — in English: if the old law is repealed, the derogation negotiated by Finland will be lifted. And as for what Finland can do, what Finland cannot do: Finland can, according to the Commission, require Finnish companies to issue their shares only in CSDs providing direct ownership. It might be crystallized to say that more Finland will be added to Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u65	Madam President! Mr Harakka has read these reports a little incompletely here. There are three different reflections in the same Governance Register Act, the first initiated by Minister Vapaavuori and the second to Minister Rinteen, and this is the last time to ask for comments on this principle of publicity. In my opinion, these two previous consultation rounds have almost completely supported this management register issue, mainly because Finnish industry would gain capital on competitive terms and thus not suffer from a shortage of capital. When this last one specifically asked for comments on publicity, it is natural that it has also been answered, but these countermeasures, the exchange of information through police and judicial action, neutralise its risk to a large extent. On the other hand, I would like to thank Li Andersson in particular for having found, as a new representative, a significant lack of withholding tax, for example, on the result of ay foundations. That is where the Minister of Finance could charge a significant extra sum for the needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u66	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. This is presented by Minister Stubb, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u67	Madam President! The government's proposal for legislation on the reform of the tax procedure and tax collection is a very broad package and hopefully will also receive a positive response in this House. The government's proposal now in our hands is part of a comprehensive reform of the tax procedure and the tax collection system, the so-called 'Preparatory project'. As part of the Preparatory project, the Tax Administration will receive a new information system and the current 70 different tax systems will be replaced by one clearer and more modern entity. The reform aims at five things: 1) harmonise the tax procedure for taxes levied by the Tax Administration; 2) to clarify and streamline regulation; (3) reduce the administrative burden on the taxpayer and improve legal certainty; (4) improve the efficiency of the tax administration and enable appropriate allocation of resources; 5) to promote e-services in tax administration. This is therefore a large-scale tax relief application, which is one of the most important measures of the Ministry of Finance for this period in the government's key axes of better regulation and better lawmaking. The aim of the reform is not only to clarify taxation for taxpayers but also to improve administrative efficiency. The reform will save some 100 person-years of work from Tax Administration. Mr President! The proposal now in our hands contains a new law on the taxation of own-initiative taxes. It harmonises tax procedures and clarifies regulation by bringing together the provisions of the common procedure for all own-initiative taxes levied by the Tax Administration. Now, each type of tax has its own rules and procedures, so in the future the situation would be much clearer for the taxpayer by the adoption of a single law on the procedure for the payment, collection and recovery of taxes and charges. Thus, at this stage, own-initiative taxes, such as VAT, will be transferred to the new integrated system. The new and uniform collection procedure would continue to apply to all taxes of the Tax Administration as tax types have moved to the new Tax Administration information system. As a whole, the Preparatory project will last throughout the Government term. In addition, the proposal contains two other new laws: the new pharmacy tax Act and the new law on the employer's health insurance contribution. In addition, the harmonisation of procedural provisions and the reform of the regulatory structure will lead to changes to 36 other tax laws. So it is a huge package and yet only part of the preparatory reform that will last for the entire government term. Mr President! A few words on the details of the proposal before us. First of all, tax legislation is always a source of emotion and passion. As the holder of four separate portfolios, it must be acknowledged that the most feedback on all matters always comes from taxes, and everyone has their own opinion on the tax system and its details. With regard to this issue too, the Committee on Budgets will certainly have to make a real effort to consult experts. At the Ministry of Finance, the proposal has been carefully prepared for a long time. Work has started already during the previous term of government. What concrete changes, then, will be brought about by this major reform? For example, the proposal includes measures to reduce the administrative burden on small businesses. More and more companies will be able to submit a seasonal tax return quarterly, or even once a year, instead of a monthly tax return in the form of a rhabba. This good and important change for many entrepreneurs will be achieved by increasing the size of companies entering the scope of the extended tax periods. In concrete terms, the change will bring around 73,000 new Finnish companies into extended tax periods. A change in the tax period will also be possible for companies in the future with less bureaucracy. A major single reform is also the reduction in the fiscal adjustment period for public authorities from the current five years to three years as a rule. This will increase the legal security of taxable persons and improve the predictability of taxation. Shortening the adjustment period means that the final result of taxation will be achieved considerably earlier than at present. This is a positive change for companies and other taxable persons. As has been said, there would be a uniform system of redress for all tax types in the future. It clarifies the regulation of taxpayers. In addition, VAT and transfer taxation would introduce an adjustment procedure, which would first seek an amendment from the Tax Corrections Board. Similarly, a preliminary ruling appeal would be possible for all taxes. In the case of late payment of a tax account, the proposed reform will be carried out to check the level and structure of the penalty. The aim is not to penalise errors unduly, but rather to encourage the correct and timely provision of tax information. A major innovation is that it will be possible to correct errors without late payment in the future more widely. This reduces the taxpayer’s costs, but at the same time improves the accuracy of the declarations. The provisions on tax increases for own-initiative taxes will also be harmonised. The reform of the regulatory framework will limit the discretion of the authorities involved in tax increases, which will allow for a more uniform application of the tax administration and the Court of Justice. The aim of this reform, too, is to increase the predictability of decisions towards the taxpayer and to increase the legal certainty of taxation. The reforms contained in this comprehensive package are due to take effect from the beginning of 2017. As I said, the Preparatory project is a multi-stage project and the follow-up will be followed by a package for the next Parliament at the end of the year. The next steps will focus in particular on improving real-time taxation, promoting electronic notification and reforming tax-raising regulation in the area of income tax. Mr President! The overall aim of the Preparatory project is to achieve a more high-quality, modern, more efficient and secure taxation, and a more predictable, encouraging and consistent taxation for the taxpayer as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u68	Mr President! The Government's proposal to reform the tax procedure and tax collection is a comprehensive 558-page document. It will take us representatives a while to read it carefully. The presentation is the fruit of years of preparation for civil servants. It is largely technical and without great political interest. The proposal is to harmonise tax adjustment deadlines for different tax types. The general deadline would be three years. The starting date for calculating the time limit would change in income tax so that it would start from the beginning of the year following the tax year, when, according to the current law, it will start from the beginning of the year following the end of taxation for the taxable person, i.e. one year later. The change in the adjustment period would concern income tax for the first time to be provided for the tax year 2017. According to the proposal, the adjustment period would be three years from the end of the tax year. In other words, it would start on 1 January 2018, i.e. from that tax year 2017, and would end on 31 December 1920. In practice, therefore, the adjustment period would begin before the end of the time limit for submitting the income tax return. According to the current law, the tax adjustment period for the tax year 2017 would be five years from the beginning of the year following the end of taxation. The tax year 2017 would end on 31 October 2018, according to the law in force. The correction period would begin on 1 January 2019 and end on 31 December 2023. In practice, the taxable person’s adjustment period for income tax would therefore be reduced by three years after the performance of the proposal. One-fourth of the remedies have been brought in the last three years of the appeal period. In particular, prior decisions that are favourable to the entrepreneur of the Supreme Administrative Court have from time to time resulted in a large number of remedies. It is very important for the business world to have that long period of correction. So-called ordinary employees have less often needed the means provided by the business world for a long period of adjustment. In the vast majority of cases, the recipient would also be subject to a maximum period of three years from the end of the tax year. However, the draft law contains a certain asymmetry of the adjustment periods for income tax in favour of the taxable person, which is not covered by the current law. The tax administration could extend its own adjustment period by one year, i.e. four years after the end of the tax year, on certain grounds laid down by law. In addition, it is proposed to lay down criteria for extending the adjustment period of the taxpayer by three years, i.e. six years after the end of the tax year. In these cases, the adjustment period of the taxpayer would not be reduced at all. It would be desirable for Parliament to review and correct the asymmetry of correction periods so as not to reduce the level of legal protection for the taxpayer at present. There's a lot of good in this show. There is a lot of good in this proposal for the Tax Administration, but also, of course, for the taxpayer. Particularly positive for taxpayers is the fact that the costs of the Tax Administration over time after this proposal and the package as a whole could be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u69	Madam President! I fully agree with what the previous representative has said, but I would like to address a detail which is of particular importance in itself. A preliminary decision can be requested from the Tax Administration. According to the principle of trust, the normal decision-maker is satisfied with it, especially if it is positive, undertakes to invest or act in the way he wants. However, there is a peculiarity in Finnish tax legislation: the right of the taxpayer is controlled by the so-called Vova, which has about 40 tax officials who are high-level tax experts. They have the right to derogate from this precedent, which makes the case law of Finland quite strange for international companies. Not much different from the case law of Russia. In Sweden, only one of these 40 people corresponds. And with this Vova still has a result objective, and it has been intended to do very small things, but there are many of them, in numbers, to enter into this negotiation. Finally, as an example, I would like to mention the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court on the running of agility dogs, on which it was stated that it did not apply to a person, when value added was set at 24% and business stopped, when, in my opinion, it also applies to the running, in which case it should have gone at 14%. And the decision was taken by a majority of 3 to 2 votes. This is a memory from when you were a tax agent. I hope that the Minister will have some time to look into this and correct it. It is precisely the international audit offices that are annoyed because they state that these costs are significant for companies and are not paid in practice, even if the State itself is obliged to pay. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u70	Madam President! A good point about this preliminary ruling from Mrs Lehde. I myself came across this issue at the beginning of the 1990s, and it was a great surprise when I said that the preliminary ruling paid but that the tax authority was not bound by the precedent, and I felt that this might be the case. And if this is still the case, then it is certainly a matter for which you should or should take a closer look at how that situation goes, because it is now a bit of such a principle that when you pay for a service, then you should get what you want, and the taxable person must be able to rely on the decisions of the authority, that then also the actions he makes on the basis of that decision are permanent and firm.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u71	Madam President! Of course, any dismantling of the norm and bureaucratism is always to be welcomed on account of the fact that the aim is to make things smoother. The issue we are dealing with here, the tax reform, is certainly a good thing if citizens, entrepreneurs and, above all, sole entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs — who, by the way, are quite familiar with the tax law and are familiar with the squirms of the tax law. If things go online, it will of course make things smoother, but it will require people to have control of the law. People will always be needed and I hope that, even after this reform, they will also be available just because the tax legislation in this country is quite complex even now. While trying to make it smoother here, it remains complicated. What I fear, Minister of Finance, is that if things are done online, what happens to citizens, micro-entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, self-employed persons, self-employed persons and the protection of the right to tax if they do not know the letter of the law. Of course, the citizens should know it, but of course we know that the citizens are not advocats and are neither judges nor reserved persons; they do not necessarily know the law exactly as it is, and certainly not the tax law. What will happen to their legal protection, where they will get it after this reform? Then there is the second point: I was wondering a little about the way in which legal protection will increase if the time for appeal is reduced. In particular, if longer periods are used and this period of appeal is reduced, it may prove to be a bad thing in practice in terms of the legal protection of the citizen and the legal protection of the taxable person and in terms of the legal protection of companies, including VAT refunds, which are quite lengthy at the moment. Then one of those little tips you might want to consider at the Tax Administration: Old, former tax inspectors ask why they no longer need their input. Tax people say that one tax inspector earns about ten times his own salary a year. In other words, tax inspectors should continue to be kept in the Tax Administration, it would be the one way in which different tax avoidance systems could be achieved, the various excessive systems of judgement to be built up slightly and the appropriate taxes collected from where they should be collected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u72	Madam President! Of course, when this 600-page package was distributed on the tax section’s desk, it was recalled that the tax section’s committee advisor said earlier that there were two important things that need to be remembered during this parliamentary term, especially in the tax section, and they are the Preparatory Project and the BEPS. BEPS refers to this international activity which was previously on the agenda here, namely tax evasion, tax avoidance, both at OECD and EU level, which is being dealt with by Parliament. The second is this Ready project. Bearing in mind that this firm, which was now distributed on 558 pages, is only the first part of this Preparatory project, the work of the Tax Section and the Finance Committee will be sufficient, despite the fact that this is largely technical, specifically related to the tax procedure, and probably does not contain much political tension in itself. Still, this is a rather challenging but important job. It is absolutely reasonable to be able to streamline, improve the legal protection of the taxpayer and reduce red tape, make things simpler, that is very important. As far as these details are concerned, what Mr Kiviranta has said here, among other things, about the asymmetry of the times of correction, I am sure that they will come back to them, as well as to the problem of the precedent given by Mr Lehde. With regard to that agility decision, to which Mr Lehti referred, the Ministry of Education and Culture also tried to use it as a basis for not making this hobby a state sports organisation eligible for assistance, but the State Sports Council, in its wisdom, disagreed and stated that, although this was the case in the past, agility is a valuable exercise activity as many other sports.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u73	Mr President! It is a pleasure to realise Mr Stubb's wish that we take a positive view of this package of laws and, at the same time, it is also a small disappointment that, as Mr Uotila, my colleague from the tax division, has said, this hardly inspires political passions. We all see that there is a lot of extremely welcome regulatory trim here, especially for small businesses. From the point of view of further work, which will continue for years to come, it could be possible to draw attention to the issue of the advance tax, which is a great tragedy for many small businesses as to whether it will be possible to turn it into a revenue-based tax in the future. This Preparatory project will help that the Tax Administration could be a much better competitive advantage for Finland when attracting foreign investors. Above all, it is important to increase the predictability of taxation. It takes too long to get advance decisions from the Finnish tax authorities. In addition, there are legal security problems identified by representatives of the Journal and Kiuru. There is much to be improved here. Another important improvement in the competitiveness of taxation would be for Finland to join the international tax dispute settlement process. It is currently the asset of our neighbouring country, Sweden, in terms of foreign investment. This is for the Minister of Finance to return from this perhaps slightly heavy day.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u74	Mr President! The representative, Mr Lehti, made a good point of raising the issue of the development of pre-tax decision-making procedures. That would be important. However, even the best and most efficient advance decision-making procedure does not replace the reduction of the time limits for correction. It serves different purposes and is also a very expensive way to deal with the matter in Finland. After all, we have a good preliminary ruling body, a central tax board copied from Sweden, which has been operating since the beginning of the 1960s. I know it well because I was a member of it for a long time. It provides a professional operator with good business and other preliminary rulings when you ask, but it really does pay. It is also very quickly accessible to the Supreme Administrative Court and will then find a final solution to the matter. Both the party receiving the tax and the taxable person, i.e. the party applying for a preliminary ruling, may, of course, appeal. However, just as Mr Lehti said, the tax administration’s preliminary ruling procedure in the context of normal income taxation does not work, because in practice it will be null and void if the Taxpayer’s law enforcement department complains about it. In a way, it loses the situation to which the preliminary ruling is sought, that is, the possibility of tax planning for that year, which in practice does not really work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u75	Madam President! I would also like to ask the Minister: is it possible at some point to go to that increase in the VAT threshold? It's actually one of those things that's very hard for self-employed people, micro-entrepreneurs. We may not always see within this granite house — or this may not be granite, but nevertheless — that there are entrepreneurs with a total turnover of between 24,000 and 30,000 a year. They are very often masseuses — women — footmaids, nail nurses who do not have a great deal of VAT deductions, yet they still have to pay for alvi, and they do not leave what is a condition for man to live. That lower VAT rate should be brought to the level, at least to the level that it would be considered to remain, which is the lowest possible wage level in this country, which can be expected that a person will get into a job without subsidies. If that were to be the lower limit of VAT, then perhaps we could get to the point where we still have these self-employed, that there would be small entrepreneurs, and that the pebbles would not sell emptiness or sell old clothes, as now, at least, there is a great deal going on in that periphery.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u76	Mr President! Separating taxation and thus facilitating the operation of small businesses is a great thing, and it is great that it is progressing. But here I would like to raise the issue of what has already been said in one speech, namely how we can make it easier for private companies, that is to say, for very small companies in general, to make it easier for them to pay advance taxes. This is a big problem for many, and even a threshold to start with one's own business name or another, because usually you always have to pay for these advances. And in this regard, I would like the Minister to seriously consider that we could treat this person entrepreneur in the same way as the employee. In other words, at the end of the tax period this tax would be equalised and the contribution, if any, would come afterwards. In fact, I believe that this would make it easier for us to have the courage to become an entrepreneur, and it would also create jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u77	Mr President! As has been said here, this now concerns the tax procedure and the collection of taxes and, in itself, does not take a position on the forms of taxation, the levels of taxation or these changes, to which Mr Tolppanen's question referred. But when this expert consultation in the tax section began, it was discussed that, when clarified, simplified, consistent with this tax procedure and tax collection legislation, then, if there is political will and there is a desire to carry out structural reforms — then they concern tax levels, tax forms, relations between them, the combination of different forms of taxation and so on — this will provide a better basis and then simplify, if necessary, other tax-related solutions. In that sense, too, this is a positive project, although there are currently no questions relating to the structure and levels of this taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u78	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u79	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to change the organisation of legal aid offices, inter alia by concentrating the administrative tasks of the agencies. I am not surprised that every time we talk about concentration, I start to study the proposal very carefully. The centralisation of the administration, as proposed by the government, will not be a problem in itself if the changes come into a living life like that. However, the centralisation of administrative tasks must be particularly careful that the available resources will continue to go into lawmaking and lobbying, not so that in the coming years services will gradually start to focus on the management. According to the motion, the offices would not be closed down. This is a good presentation, but it must also be remembered in the coming years. It is not possible to reduce the network of legal aid offices without jeopardising the fundamental rights of people. The fundamental change was the transfer of public interest from the beginning of 2009 to legal aid offices. Public lobbying often involves people who have, for example, a mental disability or a mental disorder, a weakness of old age or something like that. Many times it is important for them to know their own guardian personally and to have a little effort to meet him and discuss matters face to face. In areas of long distances, the possibility for such persons to move to the guardian must be carefully considered. Mr President! I also hope that, in the committee's deliberations, consideration will be given to whether a higher degree in law should be required from the head of the legal aid and lobbying district, the holder of the task, in view of the impact of the fundamental rights, in accordance with some of the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u80	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u81	Madam President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the Law on Measuring Instruments and is intended to enter into force on 20 April this year. The use and control of the use of measuring instruments in accordance with the proposal, as well as the certification, maintenance and labelling of instruments in use, and the labelling of such instruments are provided for in a Government decree. The regulation therefore applies to all measuring instruments in use under the Act on Measuring Instruments. These measuring instruments are considered to include, for example, all containers that measure the volume of a substance. Such a vessel could be considered to be, for example, a measure used at a gas station to pour coolant or oil into your car. Such vessel shall bear the inspector’s stamp or seal and the date on which the inspection has been carried out. The purpose of these checks provided for in the Law on Measuring Instruments is to ensure the reliability of the measuring instruments and measuring methods and the results obtained. As stated in the proposal, the regulations on measuring instruments in Finland are now quite comprehensive. The Measuring Instruments Act and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto provide, inter alia, in 2004 and 2009 for the verification and introduction of conformity of measuring instruments and scales, as well as for national control and certification in use. The latest, i.e. the 2014 Measuring Instruments and Horizontal Directives, have not changed the previous technical or reliability requirements for measuring instruments. Thus, this transposition of EU directives into Finnish national legislation is essentially a legislative technical change. Moreover, this proposal does not entail any significant changes in the functioning of the authorities. In the 1990s, I was still a police officer at shops, service stations and garages to check that the measuring instruments were compliant and properly checked and marked. Many times, for example, the merchant was surprised that the measuring device he was using, such as the financial balance, had not been checked. Fuel metering for gas stations also needed to be properly checked and labelled. If this had not been done, the police, at the end of the preliminary investigation, may have written a penalty claim and immediately took small containers, dimensions and weights into the seizure and banned fuel meters. This was a very harsh punishment for a small gas station entrepreneur, quite unreasonable. However, each of us will think it important that the measurements and weights are the right size, that there are no errors in the weighing and fuel distribution to your detriment. According to the presentation, the measuring instrument will be considered to comply with the essential requirements if it complies with the relevant harmonised standard. According to the proposal, a device may meet the essential requirements even if it does not comply with the harmonised standard. In such cases, it shall be possible to demonstrate the conformity of the product with the requirements reliably. I believe that these are important reforms, even if they may not appear to be so at first. Article 6d(1) of the Act amending the Law on Measuring Instruments requires the manufacturer of a product when placing a measuring instrument on the market to ensure that the instrument is designed and manufactured in accordance with the legal requirements. In my opinion, conformity assessment must be solely the responsibility of the manufacturer. The manufacturer is certainly best placed to carry out the conformity assessment procedure because he has detailed information on the design and production process of the product. Article 6e of the same Act provides for the obligation of the manufacturer to ensure the continuous conformity of series production. This is a quite new but important change. It is clear that the manufacturer must ensure that he has procedures in place to ensure that the device manufactured in series production complies with the requirements. Then you don't have to check each measure separately. The CE marking or equivalent marking must continue to be on the measure and on the other product under review. As a new change, the manufacturer shall indicate his name, registered trade name and registered trade mark and postal address from which he can be contacted. The information should be on the device or, if not possible, on the packaging of the device or in a document accompanying the device. I think this is a good and necessary change. Madam President! It was a very good change that this revision was eventually transferred from the police to a separate inspection body. I also welcome the government's proposal because it is part of the dismantling of standards and facilitates, for example, the work of a trader and a service station entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u82	Mr President! Of course, it is a very good thing that it is a requirement for manufacturers to produce the dimensions for which they are intended. This is certainly clear. It must then make it easier to keep a deciliter as a deciliter and to keep a meter as a meter. But this should not at any point lead to a stop at some point in time to check these dimensions, such as scales, gas measurements and various robot dimensions, because they are measurements that wear and tear and actually just move the weights a little to one side or the other, and it is very necessary to check them after that. It is even amazing that it has not been required before that the manufacturer must make the measure the size of which he has glued to or painted on the side of the measure. It goes without saying that this should be the case. But, in a way, we are using this amount of time to prepare this kind of thing here and we are using this time in the EU — there are directives — I do question it. These should be things that can be done fluently, which can be carried forward smoothly, where there is no need for by-products of different arguments and certificates. There's a point in politics where you can actually put it to the use of the so-called common peasant mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u83	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u84	Mr President! On this point, of course, I would like to say that this is a very good thing and I would like to rush our government to abolish double taxation with Sweden. It is currently debated whether it is double taxation or not double taxation. But in any case, when a person who has worked in Sweden, i.e. a Finnish citizen, moves to Finland for his retirement, he will pay more tax than if he had earned the same salary in Finland and it would be taxed here alone. I believe that quite a few people believe that this partial double taxation, which exists in it, must be able to be dismantled. I wanted it to be recorded in the Minutes, so that the matter has been raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u85	Mr President! I support the point made by Mr Tolppanen. This double taxation issue with Sweden should in principle be in order, but despite this, people who have worked in Sweden and later in Finland as pensioners have suggested that they are taxed in an excessive manner. In any case, it would be good if this issue were clarified and made known how this matter will be dealt with in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u86	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 5/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u87	Madam President! We are dealing with the Government's proposal to amend the Housing Savings Fee Act — a rather minor change. This is a nutshell issue in such a way that it is proposed to amend the Housing Savings Fee Act so that someone who has already aged 15 or over could become a housing savings depositor if the deposits are based on the resources earned by their own work. This change will then have to be accompanied by a revision of the Additional Interest Code, with the additional interest payment period starting at the time of the start of the deposit or at the time of the depository’s 18th birthday. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, there was no very big problem with this law. It is a good idea to encourage savings at all, that is a positive thing. The impact on the housing market is considered to be limited. A minor problem or difficulty may be that the law will provide some additional supervision mainly to banks and the obligation to notify customers when it comes to determining the origin of assets under the age of 18, where they came from and whether they have come from in their own work. Even the government's proposal states that it is not justified that a tax-free account in the name of a young person should actually receive donations from parents, grandparents or others. That is perhaps the main question group in the committee: how well it plays and whether this will cause problems, whether it is own money or not. All in all, the committee is in favour of adopting the draft law. Furthermore, the effects are on a very small group. It is estimated that housing savers under the age of 18 will not be a very large group now, as a result of this legislative amendment. But the goal is good: to contribute to saving and getting your own apartment. In other words, the committee supports the adoption of the draft law in the form proposed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u88	Madam President! This bill may not be one of the most important laws of this government or of the best interests, although the proposed change from 18 to 15 years from the age limit of the housing savings depositor is based on the record of the government programme. However, no estimate of the possible number of new savings contracts has been presented and, as Mr Kiuru also said, the impact of the proposal on the housing market is estimated to be negligible. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law, pointing out, however, that the start of housing savings as a minor may be limited. The conclusion and supervision of agreements with minors will create new tasks for banks. A minor asp depositor will also have to submit information to the bank that the scheme does not require from an adult, which may reduce the attractiveness of the scheme. According to the draft law, a person aged 15 or over can become an asp depositor if the housing savings agreement provides that deposits are made up of own-work assets. I am surprised, like the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which sees the requirement of self-deservation as an acceptable starting point, but bearing in mind that the government programme of this government set out in detail the task of reducing red tape and dismantling standards in the spring. That is why I do not consider this bill to be very successful, but I did not leave any difference in committee either — I do not even remember whether I was there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u89	Mr President! This is a government proposal, and it was indeed submitted in accordance with the Government Programme when this bill was taken forward. The good thing about this law is that it encourages young people to save housing. So far it has been that 18 years has been the age limit. Now it falls into 15 years so that a person can become a housing saver in accordance with this law. We in the committee had a hard debate on this issue, mainly a debate on whether this law is necessary or not, but, as a whole, we must see that this has a positive impact on the housing saving of young people, and that is why we are now presenting this law for adoption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u90	Madam President! The bigger problem for the housing market is probably that the Finnish housing market is reorganising, the people are flooding into big municipalities and south from the north and east. The second problem is, of course, that it involves problems with the availability of rental dwellings, the height of rents mainly in the capital region, perhaps also in Tampere, Turku. Then, well, a little less: for Mr Mölsä's information: 'The committee has taken part in the crucial debate...' — Mr Mölsä, here he reads in the committee's report. But let's just say Mölsä was there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u91	Mr President! Yeah, of course, if you say you're not sure whether you were there or not, then this is what it's gonna be. I must say that, personally, I do not understand that this is being brought here in substance. If a person is 15 years old and gets money from his grandmother and puts it in his bank account, then he has to tell the tax office if he thinks that this is now a housing savings account. But if it's a moped savings account, you don't have to tell me where the money came from. You can put it in your bank account, especially if your father or mother goes to put it in for you. When a person turns 18, you no longer have to account for where the money came from. What kind of equality is this? What do we teach our children with such legislation? This is a point that should be considered for a long time, whether it would be worthwhile to make equal rules on these, regardless of whether the person is 18, 17, 16 or 15 years old. If we want everything to be explained where the money came from in what bank account, that is fine. I am happy — I believe that then the tax authorities could have quite a lot more things than they do today. It is quite commendable, but the fact that only one age group, young people who start saving up and thinking far and sometimes want their own home, their own apartment, then gargled like this, is wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u92	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Tolppa that this was the very thing that led to the very great debate in the committee. This is not a big issue in itself, but the purpose of this law is that it is indeed a question of young people's own resources, which they have collected. This must not be an opportunity for parents to circumvent taxation and, therefore, the possibility of donating funds to children for the purposes and for the purposes of tax avoidance. Indeed, this housing saving is intended to enable young people's own resources to be used even for housing saving. At the age of 18 and as a parent this issue has not been so carefully regulated, and then many other things are completely different, but under the age of 18 is a child who is responsible for a lot of things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u93	Madam President! Tollppanen, if you become a housing saver at the age of 18, i.e. between the ages of 15 and 18, you do not have to report it separately to the tax authority, but it is a matter between the customer and the bank, i.e. the customer informs the bank of the origin of the money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u94	Mr President! Amazing. I really have to say, it's amazing. If a 15-year-old collects money for a moped or for a car or for a moped, he does not have to tell the bank where he gets the money. But if he collects money for the dwelling, he must inform the bank where he will get the money. If a person under the age of 15 is working in actual employment, it is very low-paid — hardly even such jobs are covered by state taxation. Yes, for a 15-year-old, a 16-year-old who lives at home, the small money comes from washing windows or vacuuming or cleaning and receiving allowance, and the allowance can sometimes be even a little larger and can also be placed in a bank account for his own apartment. I find this amazing that we are now driving such a thing as a snake into a gun that your big brother is watching over you. You will be monitored until you are 18, only on that matter if you want to save yourself an apartment. Don't do this. Don't do this. Don't do this. Why don't you put another account on yourself and tell him this is going to be in my car? Then when you turn 18, you'll transfer that money to that asp account or any account. Then it's okay. Why do we have to teach this kind of twisted thinking to our children already at this point in the legislation? That is something I cannot understand, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u95	Madam President! I understand Mr Tolppane's concern. To the extent that if a person saves money for a moped, he will not receive the additional interest guaranteed by the State and the interest given by the bank. This interest rate and the additional interest rate are tax-free. An additional interest rate of between 2 and 4 % is paid, i.e. a slightly different target in terms of saving the moped and the dwelling. This additional interest rate and tax treatment explain why it is necessary for the saver to report the money. But I admit it, and the committee also considered this issue, and the government's proposal also states that finding out the origin of the money will result in some additional work being done. Well, I suppose you could call it bureaucracy, but this is not an impossible and quite wrong message for young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u96	Mr President! I consider this bill absolutely necessary. At times like these, when our saving rate and culture have gone in the direction that people quite often live hand-to-mouth and spend what they have, and there is little money left to save, it is important that young people are also encouraged to make long-term savings. As far as I am concerned, I do not wish to comment on whether it is good now that minors are treated differently from adults. The committee has certainly considered it and has taken its decisions and its reports on that basis. In any case, it is good that people under 18 are also given more opportunities to save housing. As Mr Kiuru has said here, they will then also receive this additional interest on these deposits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-30-ps-29.u97	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 18 March 2016.
