ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 20 April 2016. In the debate, Anna Kontula Katja Hänninen, supported by Mrs Hänninen, has tabled a proposal for a statement which has been distributed to the representatives as a multiplicity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. The debate will be opened by Mr Pauli Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u4	Madam President! The Library of Parliament serves the Parliament as members of its field of activity. The tasks also include acting as the central archive of Parliament. The Library of Parliament is also a public central library in the fields of legal information, social information and parliamentary information. It serves everyone who needs information about justice, society and politics. The year 2015 was the first full year in the renovated premises. Both customers and library staff have been satisfied with the renovated facilities. Accessibility was also taken into account in the design. It is to be welcomed that both new and active customers were increasing in the reporting year. Similarly, the volume of library loans and picture loans rose. Parliament's website reform changed the application function for parliamentary affairs and documents. The library staff advised and trained parliamentary customers and all other interested parties in the application system at open events in Citizen Info. Open training was offered, among other things, from regulatory sources, from processing EU matters in Finland and from sources of information in the legislative process. During the reporting year 960 people participated in the training organised by the library. The library's information service cooperates with the Government's administration unit to support the preparation of legislation by the ministries with background searches of information. In addition, extensive material searches are carried out for the National Audit Office. In addition to the lending, counselling and information service, the library's information experts provide information packages on current legislative projects and societal and historical topics. Positive feedback has been received from customers from the information packages. The total reform of online services employed the library staff. With the website reform, the library's website was integrated into the Parliament's website. The library is responsible for the project of open data in Parliament. From the beginning of 2015, the registry functions of parliamentary administrative affairs were transferred to the archive. Seven exhibitions were held in the library during the year. The interviews with Veteran MPs continued as planned to the memory data archive. 39 people worked at the library at the end of the year, and the budget was EUR 3.3 million. The Library of Parliament is a prestigious job. For example, 42 highly qualified persons applied for the post of open service manager. Madam President! The value base and functioning of the Parliamentary Library strengthen democracy, freedom of speech, access to reliable information, free press and constructive civil dialogue and influence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u5	Madam President! The Library of Parliament is a very important institution, as we heard here. Generally speaking, of course, when it comes to libraries, I would like to draw attention to the extremely worrying record of the government programme in which, in the name of such different standards, there is a desire to adopt legislation which, in practice, states that there is no need to comply with the law, for example in relation to the municipal library service or in relation to the youth service, with regard to certain activities of liberal education. Of course, there has been a debate on how disastrous this type of regulation would be for a Finnish library system that is valuable, fine and secure for equality. It is not in anyone's interest if the municipalities are allowed to decline because of a lack of resources or new regulation. In this context, I would also like to express serious concern about the future of the Finnish library, because we all know its significance along the way of history, and in the future it will have a great deal of work to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u6	Madam President! I have spoken here before about collecting the memory of veteran MPs, and it seems that I will be a veteran MP rather than a representative sitting next to me from Zyskowicz or from Kanerva in the front row. In my opinion, there could also be justification for conducting these interviews with such concars, who have sat here at least half the age of a man of this age, if not the whole age of a man of this age. I would like to ask the President-in-Office if there could be a place here to interview these covens. Representative Judgments and many others are also the kind of people that should be interviewed. This page 23 has a picture of the former Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u9	Madam President! Thank you for the good report from the Library of Parliament. Mr Kiuru presented this document very thoroughly and well. I very much welcome the fact that the library has been set up and of course serves the needs of this house and also the public so that we can rejoice that there is a top-level library and also a library that meets international standards. I hope that this excellent presentation by Mr Heinonen on the collection of this so-called silent information, which, for example, is represented by Mrs Kanerva and Mrs Zyskowicz with their own expertise, will come true. And this proposal, for example, to be able to record any information that might be received from Secretary-General Tiitinen during the interview, would be an excellent thing. There is a downside in Finland that our retired people carry with them a huge amount of silent information that is not inherited anywhere, and that is a huge damage. It's an accident in Parliament, it's an accident in the workplace, it's an accident in every environment. Better attention should be paid to gathering silent information in this country. Mr Heinonen's proposal must be supported, and Mr Kanervalta's information up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u10	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Hosko for her speech, because silence is a concept that rarely goes hand in hand with my parliamentary work. I would also have replied to Mr Viitanen when he took the debate to libraries a little more widely, that this government's intention to dismantle the mandatory standards concerning the functioning of municipalities is, of course, a question of how far we, as legislators, rely on the decision-makers of Finnish municipalities. I understand the concern for the future of library services, youth services and other sectors in different municipalities, but, on the other hand, when we value municipal self-government, when we know that our good friends across party boundaries sit in the central decision-making bodies of the municipalities, of course, another aspect would be to trust that even if the state no longer regulates these matters so closely, the decision-makers would take care of the important services of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u11	Madam President! At this level, too, I believe that there is a great deal of serious concern about the future of libraries. There is often a resource shortage in municipalities, and then state actors must also make sure that this valuable system of ours is not simply driven down. That is why I am not at all surprised that the Finnish cultural people, the library people, have all had this worrying debate about the government's proposals. As social democrats, when we talk about the future of libraries in general, we have also suggested that these times are a good time to build and repair. So, in our own alternative budget, we have put forward concrete measures, for example, so that at this time we can safeguard children's reading interests and people's access to libraries, too, so that we can spend money on renovating libraries, repairing libraries, building up them, especially now that the government plans to put an end to this total budget for building libraries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u12	Madam President! As a building and an institution, the library is valuable and old, and that is what the Library of Parliament represents. It says on the wall, "Shut up, the library has ears." They're talking about quiet information, which is important. "The silence is inaccessible", said CharlesDickens,but silence belongs to libraries. Some time ago, at the Espoo Council, I took the initiative of returning the quiet spaces to the library, because there are many libraries where the facilities are mostly such a lounge and multi-functional space. It is therefore a pleasure to tell you that in response to this, the city has taken the matter seriously and we are becoming up to 127 square metres of new space and some of it will become quiet in a new library building in Great Apple, which will be completed, among other things. It is very important that we also maintain a place where there is peace and tranquillity and where people can read and spend their time in peace. This turning of libraries into living rooms and living rooms is, in my opinion, a completely wrong development in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u13	Mr President! There is no need to be a former Minister for Culture to speak on behalf of libraries and to worry that libraries will continue to be accessible to all citizens. I very much appreciate Mr Zyskowicz's sharp comments often during the debate, but now I must say that Mr Zyskowicz's ax did run into a very big rock and hopefully there will be sharper questions in the future. Indeed, the library is part of basic services that must be available everywhere, and cannot depend on what the decision-makers decide in each financial crisis. It is similar to the common quality of our entire culture and Finnish culture and our survival, as well as the comprehensive school, which must be organised by everyone, each municipality must take care of basic education. It must be exceptionally clear in this regard that library services are the part of our national culture, of our real literacy, of our civilisation that needs to be taken care of, and I hope that this will not now be put away with any austerity measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u14	Madam President! I agree that libraries have a great history and an important role to play in Finnish everyday life, and that is certainly what they will have in the future. In fact, there have also been some developments in a number of places, even in the current legislation, where services are concentrated only in the central city through mergers of municipalities, and where the library is physically spoken of, it is no longer possible to speak of a genuine local service everywhere. Fortunately, however, Prime Minister Sipilä's government has also taken steps to electrify services. In fact, in the future libraries will be more and more places where these services can be reached by various means. But I take care of future libraries as well as here representatives Viitanen and Heinäluoma, they have been a valuable thing and will be in Finland in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u15	Madam President! People don't just live on bread. There's an old saying. We also need civilisation and the culture of the spirit, and in this respect the Finnish library is indeed the brightest diamond of our spiritual culture and equality. In this respect, it is indeed regrettable that there may be a situation in the future where library services are not available equally in different municipalities. It may be possible that there will be large gaps in the cost-saving pressures. I will also address Mr Zyskowicz's comments, which are usually very sharp. When he said here that he trusts municipal decision-makers, there is no logic in the government's action. When these health charges were discussed, the government said that we trust municipal decision-makers. Then, when the municipal decision-makers said that we do not want to make these savings, the government now says that they need to be cut from somewhere else. Congressman Zyskowicz, is the government counting on municipal decision-makers or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u16	Madam President! Thank you for your appreciative comments. In fact, I did not take a strong position in favour of relying solely on municipal decision-makers, but rather on the intention of Mr Viitanen, following his first speech, to raise both sides of the matter. So, on the one hand, everything that has been well said here about the importance of the library, both in the history of the Finnish people and, certainly, in the future, is true, and it is easy for me to agree with that. I just wanted to point out the point of view behind the reflections that have been made within the government on the fact that, as at present, the municipalities' activities would not be regulated so precisely by laws at national level in Parliament, but that more room for manoeuvre would be given to municipal decision-makers. Such thinking was in the background. I did not say that it would be such a good or important thing to do here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u17	Madam President! It is very good to hear that Mr Zyskowicz also believes that this is not necessarily the case. That is why I now want to throw the ball at the government parties so that they do not do so. Last season, a comprehensive reform of the library law was launched, and it would be crazy for the legislation to be reformed with one hand and the other hand to announce that hey, you do not have to comply with the law. I see some pretty big threats here, dark clouds, especially since this lack of resources is a fact. Under no circumstances would I see these measures as justified, which will actually lead to the collapse and dismantling of the library. There's no basis for that. Of course, now that the government has taken a step backwards in some of its foolish performances, could the Finnish culture and literature, the reading of the citizens, the promotion of literacy, and together decide that we will safeguard the future of the Finnish library? We know that the people love libraries. Every time a library is about to be shut down in some municipality, there's quite a popular front saying you're not taking my library. The local library is also very important, and today, for example, there must be these in the suburbs and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u18	Mr President! Let us be honest about this. However, the aim was to make savings, it was the starting point for this whole exercise, not so much the strengthening of local self-government here. Then the result of the government’s wish is that the municipalities would also save money from the library budget. This means that this vital service will be weakened and should be resisted. Libraries are the cornerstone of Finnish culture, and the cornerstone of Finnish Pisa success and literacy is also found in libraries. It also means that for immigrants, the library is also a place where you can meet, do homework and adapt better to Finnish and Finnish society. The Library of Parliament is a well-resourced institution, it is extremely important for research and researchers, but customers may not have found it in the best possible way. This contrasts with the huge utilisation rate of Finnish municipal libraries and their reader and loan volumes are still at an extremely high level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u19	Madam President! It is true that everyone in Finland is friends with libraries, and the municipalities will certainly make sure that the library is the thing they want to work for and that they want to develop. That's the way it is in my community. But as far as this economic activity is concerned, it must also be taken into account by the municipal authorities that when the government always sends sanctions by cutting it and this — which is also the truth dictated by the general economic situation — it must also be taken into account, because, at its worst, if the municipality does not take care of its economy and then goes on a scale to the crisis settlement, then it will lead again to the situation in which the municipality is put into liquidation, after which the Government takes a decision, and probably to the nearest neighbourhood, which is considered best in that situation. There will then be no choice in that situation. In other words, this maintaining a good level of economic activity in municipalities is a matter number one for all municipal representatives and civil servants. But the government must also see to it that employment opportunities go beyond central places. Otherwise, this Finland will die.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u20	Madam President! The government is very appreciative of the library institution, and this is an example of the fact that the Central Library is coming very close to us during this parliamentary term. It is a EUR 100 million project, with EUR 30 million of state aid, which is a very large contribution to the library. Representative Heinonen raised interviews with veteran MPs. Last year, 13 of them were made. All in all, 932 MPs have been interviewed. The work is progressing. But to become a veteran MP, you have to be a former MP, and we know that Kanerva and Zyskowicz will certainly go on for a long time, so by this knowledge they will not get to the interview for a while. Instead, good news for your question: Secretary-General Tiitinen will be interviewed. He is verbally promising that he will be available, and he will be able to deepen the information connected with this parliamentary work and to bring another perspective, a slightly different perspective from that of the parliamentarians themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u21	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the library, Mr Kiuru, for this reply. It is great that such an experienced official as the outgoing Secretary-General Seppo Tiitinen is involved in this whole. In my opinion, it is good to bear in mind that we have many long-term players in the house, and this is perhaps a good tradition in time to see if there are any people who would have something to tell the researchers of the future. And as stated in this library report, the library has also granted permission to access the entire interview material to two researchers from the Parliamentary Research Centre, which is also being used in a good way. It's great that these are in use — even if Tiitinen's list doesn't make it through the interview.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u22	Madam President! I am sure we will all agree on this, but I would like to say, in the light of Mr Hoskosen's speech, that this is not the logic of the government and the government parties that decides or has tails. On the other hand, it is said that we all love libraries, and so the people love them, but at the same time the government sends the signal to the decision-makers that you should spare libraries, among other things, in the name of these standards. Have you not, ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party, seen and heard the concern that this government programme caused? It seems crazy to say that there is no need to follow the law in these matters. The same applies to issues such as this in the youth service. This is a very serious, big thing we're about. I am pleased that the government parties have also come to understand the library in general. I now wish you could give my regards to your Minister, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Heinonen, that this project is absolutely intolerable and must be withdrawn. In other words, the government should not drive down a great Finnish library.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u24	Now to the list of speakers. Representative Heinonen will be the first to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u25	Madam President! Every year we have had a debate here about the report of the Library of Parliament, and, of course, around many of the big debates, this always seems a little smaller. But when, in due course, the first parliamentary term also allowed me to be on the Board of the Library of Parliament, and the library was then chaired by a long-winded parliamentarian MP, I did get a good introduction to the functioning of our library and also to the fact that this is much more important than what we want to understand or know in the ordinary public debate. It is often thought that there is also a library available to parliamentarians, but this library is of much greater importance. It has often been nice to see how young people have found and used the Library of Parliament in research. This is also a great place to have books that are often reserved for many other libraries on long booking lists. The renovation of the Parliamentary Library was completed, and last year was the first in the new premises. It is also positive to see that people have found their way back to this library as customers. Of course, loans are not quite at the level they were before the renovation, but there is a clear rise of 11.4 per cent more than in the previous year. I believe that this is going to increase somewhat, even though it may not be possible to reach the exact figures when we move on to the electronic models. Mr President! At the end of the day: It is great that we have been able to do more interviews with veteran MPs every year, 13 last year, and these studies have been continued. One of the great news in this short plenary session was that there will also be an interview with the retired, respected Secretary-General Seppo Tiitinen on this memory collection project. I hope that the Members of Parliament, Mr Kanerva, Mr Zyskowicz and, for example, the Judgments will be included, because it is important that the information is on the covers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-22-ps-42.u26	Madam President! Yes, collecting memory data and putting quiet information into folders is important, and there is support for it. Parliament’s library is valuable and traditional and is exactly the kind of library we are used to seeing. It is peaceful and quiet there and, unfortunately, this development is not, as I mentioned in my previous speech, the same in all libraries. This is what we need. In other words, libraries are very noisy in some places. It is mainly a living room and a lounge atmosphere, and it is understandable that young people are looking for libraries. There may not be any of those facilities anywhere else. But we must stick to the principle that there is peace and quiet in the library also for those who need it. The lack of quiet spaces has become a problem in many libraries and in many localities. Indeed, in Espoo, delegates took a good stand on this, and I took the Council initiative to restore quiet spaces to those who need them. Students, among other things, apply for a place where they can study and carry out their duties. The initiative was well supported. The municipal survey was also carried out by the local Länsivälehti, and 84 per cent of those who responded to the interview felt that there was a demand for quiet spaces and that they should not disappear from libraries. Indeed, we are about to have over 100 square meters of new space in Espoo and part of it in the quiet library. A fine practice has also been introduced in Kauklahti Library to allow people to access their own library cards without having supervisors there. It gives responsibility and freedom, but also that there is a space where it is peaceful and comfortable to get to know the books. It's open till 10:00 p.m. tonight. This has been very welcome by students and young people. Such different new ideas are also needed in the library world and are welcome.
