ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would remind you that the questions would be addressed to the relevant Minister for Sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u2	Congressman Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u3	Mr President! Organisations do valuable work in Finland. According to a study by the University of Helsinki, 1 euro, which is invested in voluntary activities, brings benefits to society of 6 euros. In addition to this, organisations also employ the most vulnerable people. I myself have visited one project where more people from the unemployed died during that employment project because they were in such a difficult situation. So it's a really challenging group. And now the government is pushing down this employment of organisations very strongly. People have come up with alarmed messages about what is happening, and many good actions are now drifting down. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour: what do you have against employing organisations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u4	Madam President! Nothing at all. The government has stated that these pay subsidies will be looked at, reviewed and that the share of 100% paid on the state side is indeed being stopped. For the rest, the situation continues. I know this situation very well. Today I have started my morning in a place where these questions were also asked, and I have told you what reforms the government is making here on the payroll, among other things, for this active use. We are also in the process of defining a ceiling on the amount of pay subsidies for the state budget proposal. This is a reform which continues to aim for wage subsidies and the association's activities to continue, but not everywhere, because the money is simply not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u5	Now I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u6	Mr President! The organisations not only employ but also produce a wide range of social benefits that cannot be gained from the market: domestic service for veterans, private-home janitoring, helping elderly people to live at home, containers of the SPR, leisure opportunities for young people and many other activities. And so that this whole thing can spin, so that we have locomotives and drivers on this side, it often requires the 100% employment subsidies. The government has set the budget, that is, the book we already have here, for the employment of the 3000 man-year ceiling organisations, and this is an obstacle to that organisation's activities. Could you, Mr Lindström, give up this ceiling because I know that you have been pushing for, for example, that unemployment benefit can be used actively for employment? A big thumb on it, but now this roof is blocking that good purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u7	Madam President! Honestly, this kind of roof is coming, i.e. a pay subsidy could be paid to a maximum of 3000 people during the year, as Mr. Filatov pointed out — when the pay subsidy covers all the remuneration costs. Setting a ceiling on the number of people is new. This is new in Finland, and of course it worries operators and even causes fear that the intermediate labour market will be driven down. This is not the case. This ceiling applies to national appropriations and, as I said, to the so-called 100% wage subsidy. These are the policies of the government, and I am not going to cancel them in this box.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u8	Mr President! These organisations carry out tasks that no one else in society is doing, and Mr Filatov has just mentioned these. This work is often occasional and there are no commercial providers for it, or on the other hand, the ability of customers to pay for these services at market prices is not met. Do you, Minister Lindström, have any idea what you will not do if funding is driven down from the organisations? What happens to these people and services that are important to them if the veterans no longer receive home help or the elderly cannot be supplied with trade services or snow creation ceases or something like that? I would like to ask Minister Lindström again: why do you not allow organisations to organise this valuable and socially beneficial work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u9	Madam President! Together with these third sector actors, we have been at the same table to discuss this matter in good time and to tell them openly what we are doing, and also asked them themselves to participate in this debate and to look there for structural reforms such as these. I would remind you that there is a bill in this house at the best time, which will actually allow this passive money to be spent on activating support in the future. It adds 7,000 man - years to the service. It's going to increase the volume by 40 percent. It is an important reform. I know there's a lot of valuable work to be done there. I have no contempt for it at all and I am, of course, really concerned about it. But I believe that when these things are reconsidered in the sector too, there will probably be solutions there. As I said, we are not pushing down the intermediate labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u10	Madam President! On the basis of your decision, pay subsidies are now directed to companies, not to workshops and organisations, and that is the basic problem that is at present. Let's go to the concrete level, go to Kouvola, South-East Finland, that's something you must know: The decisions you make in Kouvola and South-East Finland mean that 70% of current services are being driven down, and these remaining 30% in practice in the area of pay subsidies are already tied to next year's decisions. In concrete terms, it means that there are no organisations in Kouvola, Lappeenranta, Kotka, Imatra, nor In Hamina, long-term unemployed people can no longer be employed with paid aid. The situation of the long-term unemployed is indeed catastrophic in Finland at the moment, especially for those who need support and assistance. Minister, what do you say to young people and the long-term unemployed in Kosovo who would like to go to the Parik Foundation, for example, to work in which negotiations are currently taking place and where they are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u11	Madam President! While we are increasing this flexibility, it has indeed been felt necessary to impose conditions on the use of employment appropriations. This means that the State budget will set a ceiling for the amount of the wage subsidy. The State's draft budget for next year provides for a ceiling of EUR 1400 per month for one person. And changes are also proposed to pay subsidies, in which the wage subsidy can cover the full cost of remuneration. This change concerns associations, foundations, registered religious communities. The maximum monthly salary costs covered by the pay subsidy would be EUR 1800 per person. I would also remind you that, from the point of view of the intermediate labour market, it is a positive change that the content of Article 6(2) of Chapter 13 of the Employment Contracts Act, which was provisionally in force between 15 and 16, is being consolidated. Isn't this a good thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u12	Madam President! According to a recent survey, the threat of unemployment is one of the greatest fears of the future that Finns have. When a competitiveness agreement was reached, quite a few people thought that it would be peaceful to work, but since then the government has made countless cuts to unemployment security, which will automatically affect employment too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u15	Madam President! It is a good thing that this question came out of Mr Järvinen's mouth, so that this issue can be clarified a little bit. Indeed, that work sample was an idea that was shot down, and was asked to withdraw a performance that had not even been given yet. The matter was developed and ended up in this recruitment experiment. It was embedded in the experimental legislation, and it is now here in Parliament. As far as I understand it, it is voluntary — in those articles it says that if someone wants to go for a test and in a week’s time it comes to such ideas that this was not for me, then there will be no sanctions. This is neither slave labour nor unpaid work; this is an opportunity to show both yourself and the potential employer whether I am in this job. Isn't this a good thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u16	Mr President! I am truly sorry that the government has reduced the salary subsidy to organisations. We have good experience in stealing, for example, in the outsourcing of the elderly — sports clubs have run a system where they have been outsourcing the elderly and such stimulating activities. Then there has been pay support through youth guidance, which has led in many cases to the fact that these young people have left for apprenticeships, have gone into training as a sports instructor, and many other such cases are there. I really regret that such pay subsidies are being taken away from organisations, and I would like the government to reconsider how to make it work better towards sports clubs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u17	Madam President! Of course, Mrs Semi is quite right that these should be looked at, and that is why, before these proposals were put forward, we had a discussion with third sector actors, that they should also be consulted and that they have had the opportunity to influence them. I have also challenged them to consider the effectiveness and, on the other hand, whether the best possible result can be achieved there. We often have people in the same circle who are not employed in that open labour market, but that should be the aim of everything — at the same time recognising that there are a lot of people out there who are never in the open labour market. That this is, of course, challenging. But there have been discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u18	Madam President! Citizens often contact them on the basis of a debate and hope that the Minister will tell us. What did this mean when you said today that passive money was being taken into active use? Can you open it? Of course, for citizens it does not open very easily. And do I remember correctly that the SDP has now become very critical of the government's employment policies, but this model of Rinte, which has been mentioned, would cost more than 300 million more than this model of government? Can you tell us about these two things?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u19	Madam President! Indeed, the government model is that the unemployment benefit paid by the State could be used from the beginning of the year for pay subsidies, start-up grants, mobility grants. The government model is cost-neutral: money is transferred within the budget, i.e. no new money is taken. If I have understood correctly — I have often tried to ask for the Socialist model when I have not quite understood it, I have actually asked whether it is the case that, according to the parliamentary information service's calculations, your model would cost EUR 350 million. That's not the same thing as a cost-neutral. We have the same goal, the same idea, but none of you have answered me this question about what this model really is, whether it is cost-neutral or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u20	Mr President! This model of the SDP introduces the basic unemployment allowance 32.80 per day and is taken after six months. Six months is the limit that makes employment really difficult. And with the 32.80 pay subsidy model, you get 300 days of employment vouchers, without bureaucracy. I do not understand where such figures come from when it comes to the fact that used for existing money, in any case would be paid. The only one here that produces significant cost savings for the whole of public finances is that part of earnings-related security if a person with earnings-related security goes to work with this voucher. There is no unclear problem here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u21	Mr President! The share of the long-term unemployed among all unemployed has never been as high in Finland as it is now, more than 35 per cent, and it is forecast to continue to grow in the coming years. This is not opposition propaganda, it is directly from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy's press release and forecast. I'm sure we all share a common concern about the long-term unemployed. But you, Minister, know very well that in organisations that do not have the opportunity to make a very large amount of self-financing, we also need that 100 % support, and if we set a ceiling of 3000 person-years of work, it will mean breaking down the path of the most vulnerable long-term unemployed, i.e. going there for rehabilitation and then going on a work trial and then, as it were, getting paid to work on the right pay. And with this model, you are simply offering these unpaid active labour market policies to the unemployed who are in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u22	Madam President! Together, the government will decide its own policies, and it will not change them from here in the box. I would just like to remind you that we have made a huge number of reforms, flexible, safe labour law for active labour market policies, employment-friendly social security. We know that long-term unemployment is too high. That is absolutely true, and I can assure you that the government will do everything in its power to resolve this. But this won't be solved with any magic trick. It comes by creeping, and it leaves by creeping. It's like this. And we haven't given up in front of it. We take a lot of measures, such measures,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u25	Next question, Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u26	Madam President! Many of us have received a request for help from Iraqi Ali and the widow Linnea. Ali has been given asylum in January and has the right to family reunification — theoretically. The daughters and wife of Ali 4 and 6 are still hiding in Iraq, as they are unable to submit an application to the Finnish Embassy in Ankara. Many Syrians are also in the same situation. In practice, the only obstacle between families is a regulation, the table in which the annex states that consular matters of Iraqis and Syrians are dealt with only and only in Ankara. But you can't get to Ankara. This feels like a Kafka. This table of the consular regulation therefore distinguishes people from their families. Ali has appealed to us to allow the family to submit their application to some other embassy. Prime Minister Sipilä, as Prime Minister of Finland, you have the power to change this regulation easily with a pencil stroke. Are you going to use your power to bring these families together at last?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u27	Madam President! This is also a very important issue because, in itself, this problem is not in Finland, but it is there once and for all in Turkey. Now that this has become clear that it is so difficult that it is simply not going to be resolved there, I have now sent a request to the Foreign Office to re-evaluate the possibility of dealing with these issues in other countries. Unfortunately, Mr Soini is not here today to respond to this, but you can be absolutely convinced that the solution will be sought so that Turkey does not have to suffer because of its practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u28	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u29	Mr President! Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your reply. Finland has invoked the Swedish line in its safety assessments and the possibility of using an internal escape. However, there are still differences in asylum practices in Finland and Sweden. The Finnish line has been clearly tightened this year: in January 80 per cent of the decisions received by Iraqis were positive, compared with about 15 per cent in August. Sweden has just said that the security situation in Iraq has deteriorated, which limits the possibility of an internal escape, i.e. a transfer within the country from one region to another. In Finland, the Helsinki Administrative Court ruled that, for example, the Mosul Sunniarab cannot be returned to Baghdad due to a major personal threat. These are serious signals that, in my opinion, Finland's asylum policy has exceeded the limits of acceptability. Will Finland change its line, Minister of Interior Risikko?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u30	Madam President! Every single application is processed separately, every single application. It also makes use of that geography. We have a geodata unit in the Finnish Immigration Service, which is constantly trying to figure out what the situation might be in the country of return. This decision of the administrative court, which has now come, which prevents you from being sent to Baghdad, cannot be followed by such an internal escape for designated persons, will be taken into account and seriously. This will change the handling of applications from these countries, from these destinations, yes. But now that you have pointed out that we have something more tense than Sweden, Sweden, for example, has not taken such a decision, which has now been taken by our administrative court. In this respect, it has been the other way round, so now Sweden is more tense than we are, so they can send, we can not, from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u31	Värderade Talman! Congressman Parviainen asked about family reunification. After all, this is a fairly long process, as we are now taking care of it. We are pleased to hear that it can now be activated electronically, but before a positive decision comes, the family bond must also be established through the DNA test. Would it be possible that this stage would only be made in Finland, when another obstacle would be removed from the path of family reunification?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u32	Madam President! So this is a good idea in itself that you can only do in Finland, but then I think of the individual himself, that if you do not have the opportunity to do so, then would it not always be better if it became known to you as soon as possible? Of course, your presentation will be taken seriously and evaluated, but for the individual, I would see that the sooner he gets the information he gets, the faster the tests will be done, the faster things will roll and there will be no need to come from one country to another, to wait every step of the way and to carry out the tests. So the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u33	Mr President! In spring 2015, the Government Programme promised to tighten the criteria for family reunification at European level beyond these income limits, and the same was promised about a year ago when it was made on the immigration policy agenda of about 80 points. I would now like to ask the corresponding minister: at what point are these other blackmails on the family reunification criteria at the moment, and when are we going to get proposals?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u34	Madam President! After all, a decision was also made last spring that those criteria for family reunification also apply to old families, not just new families, and this has been interpreted as a certain form of blackmail. Then it has also been assessed whether there are other things to be done, and decisions have been made. At the moment, we are preparing such a Nordic study, which means that we have now explained how other countries have, just the facts about it, and then we will see how Finland is going to be doing in the future. That is what I have seen now, as was the case here in the recent question, that family reunification is not easy and that Finland is certainly not attractive in this respect either, but we will certainly also look at the practices of family reunification criteria in other countries, and then we will act in accordance with uniform practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u35	Mr President! It is important at this time, when the world is in an unstable state, that Finland is a country that always respects human rights and defends human dignity in its own policy, but also internationally in its development cooperation and foreign policy. This is one example of a situation in which there are problems in the actual implementation of human rights, that a person cannot claim his rights simply because of the practices of the various embassies. Another case has also been raised today when the Constitutional Committee declared the government's bill on lower social security for an unemployed person with an immigrant background incompatible with the Constitutional Treaty. The government has now withdrawn it, and that is a good thing. But the government has a responsibility to assess the constitutionality of its own legislative proposals in advance, and I would like to ask you, Prime Minister: how do you ensure that the government, in its action, ensures that the laws are in accordance with the Constitution, because in the past there have been these exceptions which the Constitutional Committee has had to deal with, such as the right of minors to legal aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u36	Madam President! There will always be a constitutional review in the preparation of the law, but every government, every government, every government will have cases that will then be found to be problematic from the constitutional point of view, and then it will be up to the government to withdraw them or change the proposal in such a way that it can withstand the constitutional review. And that is what has happened in this case. We have also now set up a Legislative Review Council in the Prime Minister's Office, which is also proactive in carrying out such an evaluation. It has been in use since spring this year, and we have received good feedback, even constructive criticisms of the legislation in the preparatory phase and of the government's proposals. That is also how this process will improve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u37	Next question, Mr. Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u38	Mr President! The whole of Finland was already sighing for relief when the government announced that it would cancel the decision to weaken the nursing allowance in the care of the elderly. However, the sigh of relief turned to despair when it turned out that the savings target sought by the nurse measure was not forgotten. So the government is still planning to save millions of dollars in the care of the elderly. Savings are sought by lowering the qualification requirements for staff to be included in the nursing qualification. In future, then, students, department assistants, institutional administrators and so on could be included in the measurement. Similarly, care professionals, i.e. nurses and local nurses, would be fewer in the departments. Apparently, in the government's math, cookers and janitors are nurses. Mr President! I ask the Minister: do you see any risk that the elderly will no longer have the professional help available to them at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u39	Madam President! The profession of cook and janitor must also be respected,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u40	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u41	Mr President! On Monday, super challenged me, I took a shift at the elderly nurse in Riihimäki. The nurse’s message was quite clear: you should not seek savings at the expense of good care. Yes, nurses do extremely important and hard work all over Finland, at the extreme limits of their ability to cope. I am genuinely concerned about the ability of trained nurses to cope with the growing workload. Is this, however, the way in which you in the government show respect for the medical staff that this nurse’s qualification is being broadened? I ask you, Minister Ruhula: What is the government’s gift to the elderly in Finland, Finland, which is 100 years old? Is the government finally going to put an end to these schemes and genuinely abandon these savings targets in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u42	Madam President! We have legislation which is based on the fact that, in the case of round-the-clock care and care, care is the key: what kind of people in these housing units, what kind of people are in each service unit of people with 24-hour care and care claims. This is number one. Secondly, this quality recommendation on care for the elderly, which is being reformed, is part of this definition of care. In the future, professionals — 0.5 is the lowest limit — will be counted in this 0.5. Today we have a situation where, according to the latest data, the average is 0.63 carers per person, and we have the latest data coming up in the next few days to get the real situation information acutely on where we are going. But what
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u43	Mr President! I think that everyone agrees that in politics, too, praise should be given when there are grounds for it. Like many other Finns, I was already pleased to learn that the government is withdrawing its intention to calculate the nurse’s measurements. But this joy became a deep disappointment for me and many other Finns when it turned out that the government continues to stick to this savings target of 70 million for elderly services. What is at stake here is that you are still going to save 70 million at the expense of good care for the elderly, the ability of the staff, this time by changing and calculating these eligibility criteria. Prime Minister, would it not be the most upright and humane of all to completely cancel out this planned savings on the services of the elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u45	Madam President! We have the full potential and the opportunity to take care of the content of the EUR 70 million that this government has set out in such a way that there is no need to interfere with this carerisation. It is 0.5 that base and base — the point. Professionals will continue to care, trained people, social and health care professionals, people who need its 24-hour care and care. How do we do this? In this respect, the government has included in the budget book the method, the method that has been used here quite a number of times. Now, this quality recommendation, which is a whole package, sees, among other things, the possibility and exploitation of technology and tries to dismantle red tape, such as corporate licensing practices and so on. That's how you get that $70 million together. The level of care and care is not compromised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u46	Mr President! I think that something good about the care of elderly people in this hall is that during the autumn this theme has been ignored very often. I myself have wondered that, in the context of better care for older people and the future, we should also have the courage to talk about the advantages of digitalisation and technology. I can see that the subject is also a little frightening, and inevitably the ideas will lead to whether robots will then replace humans when the question should be what it can be used for, leaving more time for actual encounters and care. I have been thinking, for example, about increasing the distribution of doses in the distribution of medicines and thus more time spent in nursing work or about the benefits of technology in the safety of older people. What ideas does the Minister have on this theme?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u47	Madam President! No technology, no digitalisation will replace a person in a situation where a person lives and lives 24 hours a day in a situation where there is a need for care and care professionals. No digitalisation, no electronic system will replace another person. Here, as a whole, which is now being built here, one central idea is that a professional is able to face the other person and give the care and care that a person needs to give. Technology will make significant use of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u48	Värderade Talman! Det är Jätteviktigt att våra äldre kankänna sig trygga i sin vardag, och jag tycker att det är oerhört bra att regeringen nu dragit tillbaka förslaget om att änka vårddimensioneringen. Det är bra att man håller fast vid 0,5 vårdare som minimum för dem som är i vård dugnet runt. Men samtidigt skulle det vara otroligt viktigt att våra kommuner också får veta på vilket sätt man ska göra de rauh beräkningarna. Viikka tunniskor hör till dem som säknas med? Här kom det fram att det inte handlar om dem som jobbar i köket, det handlar Heller inte om servicepersonal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u49	Madam President! These are quality recommendations for care for the elderly, which are being worked on so that the municipal court will receive that information this year. And when the conversation started here too, whether the janitors, the cooks, and so on, the janitors and the cooks are not included in the nurse’s measurements. They are support service workers who see to it that there is food and paths are plowed and sanded and so forth. When the previous nursing qualification has been made — and more precisely: when the previous quality recommendation has been made — then the change in the educational world has been such that we have entirely new occupational groups that are involved in care and care for the elderly. In this respect, what is the quality recommendation, which is working with the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, will be sent to the municipal court this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u50	Mr President! Yes, the government is now looking for savings in the wrong place. These people are the most vulnerable, and it seems that the government does not fully understand what kind of people we have today, what kind of elderly people there are in 24-hour care, what kind of elderly people we have in home care, home care. They're all in very bad shape. And when a long - term hand was taken over by an elderly servant during the last reign, one element was that this qualification must be such that there is sufficient expertise to care for these very hard - to - treat elderly people. And now it seems to me that the government is doing a little bit of the right thing, as is the case with the scrapping of this old-age service law that has been created during the last term of government. How elderly people are treated matters to their families, to themselves and to the entire Finnish people. And now I ask: does it matter to the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u51	Madam President! To the extent that the amount and need of care are based on care, they are written in the Act on Elderly Services. That part is exactly the same. It's the controller, it's the law-level regulation that keeps the care in places where people need 24-hour care and care. Secondly, we have very different kinds of people in 24-hour care and care. When the average in the country is 0.63, it means that we have such care units where it measures between 0.8 and 0.9, because the level of care is of the order that there should be more staff. This will continue to be the legislation in force and what this future recommendation will contain, and therefore, according to care, there should continue to be even 0.9.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u52	Mr President! The issue of care for the elderly, institutional care for the elderly, raises a great deal of debate here in the Chamber, has already been raised last season when the last time the nurses were converted. We all have a view and an opinion on how elderly people are being treated in Finland at the moment, and unfortunately, when you listen to people, it seems that many people share that concern with us as well as many of us in this House that there is no longer any room to compromise on care for the elderly. Did we now, Minister, during this Question Time, get a promise from you that, when updating the quality recommendations, the qualification requirement will not be weakened and, at the same time, the carer's qualification will remain the same?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u53	Madam President! It's a common concern. It's a genuine concern. Concern is shared and genuine both at the national level and then at the municipal level, as well as at the level of the companies, the third sector organisations and those responsible, who are responsible for ensuring and responding to the fact that a person can live a decent life in a situation where he no longer manages. Secondly, the government is committed to not counting the amount of care taken. 0.5 is where we stick and hold back. The quality recommendation work is in the position that the municipalities will be informed on this side of the year about what is at stake and what kind of change in training has taken place in the field since the previous quality recommendation will be specified and specified. But the key is: social and health care professionals are all of them,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u54	Next question, Congressman Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u55	Madam President! In the past week, a draft government alcohol law was sent to the opinion and, according to its impact assessments, the number of large consumers of alcohol will increase by increasing the availability of stronger beer and cider, and annual alcohol deaths will also increase by 150. More children who have been disabled by alcohol will be born. We Christian Democrats have called for this proposal to be withdrawn so that more children can have a safe childhood without parents having a substance abuse problem and, for example, that police resources are sufficient. At the moment, already, about 70% of all police work goes to alcohol-induced safety problems. THL and all alcohol experts and industry organisations My question is: on what basis is the government proposing this for the benefit of society?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u56	Madam President! Congressman Räsänen suggests that the government withdraws its proposal. What's the status of this moment? The Ministry has sent the full reform provisions of the Alcohol Act together with the reasons for the consultation. Secondly, the preparation of legislation also includes impact assessments in this law. The information which is able to assess — as reliably as it is possible in this situation — the potential increase in total alcohol consumption after these regulations has resulted in what you said, Mr Räsänen. But when we're talking about canceling, it's time to make a statement. Until and after January, let us see what the statements have to say. Possible changes will be made to the extent that there is a need, for example, for clarifications — there are a number of small issues in that law that have been
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u57	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u58	Madam President! I very much welcome the fact that the government really listens with sensitive ears to these comments and, in particular, to the views of experts, particularly public health experts. The recent memory is that the last time the alcohol law was relaxed, by Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen's government in 2004. It was then stated in the explanatory statement of the government’s proposal that it would increase 600 alcohol deaths a year, and this unfortunately happened. I hope that the government will not make this mistake now, but rather follow the latest OECD guidelines, for example, which propose that, on the contrary, the alcohol tax should be increased. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u59	Madam President! In 2004, I think we were in a situation where alcohol taxation was addressed. The legislation on the content of alcohol was not then amended. Over the past few years, alcohol advertising has been discussed and solutions have been made, but the content of the alcohol law in this respect, to which you refer and which had an impact on consumption, was linked to a change in taxation in which Finland significantly reduced the amount of alcohol tax. Since then, we have travelled towards a situation in which the amount of alcohol consumed in Finland has, in a commendable way, been decreasing. These are the messages that have also been taken into account in the preparation of this law, which have, for example, made it possible for the views of the business community to be raised in this way, as was the case in the presentation that the ministry sent to the consultation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u60	Madam President! This course must in no way be reversed. In other words, alcohol consumption is always influenced by price and availability, and now the government is opening up this availability for four cells, among other things, so that when it is currently available from around 350 Alkos, then some 5300 to 5500 retail stores are selling it all over Finland. Today it has already been estimated how it will affect the fact that the price of alcohol will also go down. We in Estonia, a neighbouring country, currently have a centre-run government that has promised that they will increase the taxation of beer by more than 60% by 2020 and that already in July they will raise 65% of the current level. Would it not now be extremely important for the centre-driven government of Finland to follow the example of Estonia and to introduce the initiative taken by the Christian Democrats in the budget for next year that alcohol should:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u61	Madam President! The 2004 tax change was related to the fact that Estonia’s age of EU membership came to the point where they had to change what they had in mind. After all, at the time, we in the Finnish Parliament made the decision to reduce the alcohol tax. This news, which comes from beyond the Gulf of Finland, must be welcomed with gratitude, because it has a direct impact on the way alcohol is imported from outside Finland's borders to our market. In this comprehensive reform of the alcohol law, one such controller has been that alcohol would be consumed and bought within the Finnish borders, so that tax revenues would remain with us in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u62	Mr President! It seems to me that we are in quite a bit of a tangle in Finnish alcohol taxation, i.e. certainly, if the alcohol tax were raised, the risk would be very high, on the contrary, that it would lead to more and more alcohol in Estonia or elsewhere where it can be obtained at lower prices, and when it is bought there, it will be out of our tax revenues. That is why this Estonian solution, as long as they still do it, is excellent and very welcome both for Finnish alcohol policy and then also for the state chest. So all you have to do is go to the nest there in Estonia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u63	Next question, Congressman Pauli Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u64	Madam President! The Government has today adopted a national energy and climate strategy for 2030. It is very ambitious and makes decisive progress towards the emission reduction targets. Finland is the first industrial country to ban the use of coal by the law. Finland is also the first country that has decided to take decisive steps to halve fossil imported oil. At the same time, the strategy outlines significant investments in the development of renewable energy. Minister Rehn, what opportunities do you see these strategic guidelines bring to the export industry and to increase economic activity in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u65	Mr President! This question by Mr Kiuru is at the very heart of this national energy and climate strategy. The goal is that we are also a pioneer in this field because of our own interests and we create the basis for Finnish expertise in cleantech and energy and environmental technologies to succeed in the world, and that is how we can create new jobs in Finland and strengthen our expertise in this very central area. This is what we are trying to promote together with Minister for Foreign Trade Kai Mykkänen and we are really trying to strengthen our ability to export Finnish cleantech and environmental technology when, indeed, through this strategy, we strengthen our expertise and investment, invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u66	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u67	Madam President! For my part, too, I would like to thank the government for these very excellent and, I might say, ambitious strategic guidelines for climate and energy policy, which will help us to implement both EU and international agreements, obligations. But it is also very important that our energy policy is such that it enables the use of domestic renewable energy and hence the management of domestic employment. We currently have a number of promising, very significant bioenergy projects all over Finland, which, if implemented, would be quite significant in terms of employment. I would like to ask Minister Rehn: how do you think these new climate and energy strategy guidelines will affect these planned investment projects?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u68	Mr President! Representative Salmon drew attention to an essential issue, namely that this energy and climate strategy sets very ambitious targets, which then contribute to investment in domestic renewable energy. These ambitious targets aim at a complete transition to an emission-free, carbon-neutral energy economy by 2050. The means are both cane and carrot: cane for coal, i.e. by 2030 — legislation is being prepared during this Government’s term — and carrots for renewable energy, domestic energy and energy efficiency. Let me take one example: biofuels with a blending obligation of 30% mean that we need 600,000 tonnes of biofuels per year, which corresponds to about five or six biorefineries, the size of what is in Lappeenranta, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u69	Mr President! I, too, must first of all thank the government for its good policies. There are a lot of good elements, ambitious ones. Biomass and biofuels are at the core. Electronic traffic has also been taken into account. The world goes to electric cars, no matter what Finland does. But my question is actually about the timing of this package: why, Minister, does Finland adopt its own policies before all the essential issues are aligned at EU level?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u70	Mr President! Two answers to Mr Skinner's question, namely two similar comments: firstly, the preparation of the European Union has been delayed. We in Finland do not wax, we act robustly and on schedule. And secondly, this is in fact right for our own interests, because now that we have outlined this strategy, we will continue to influence the European Union's policies on carbon sinks, sustainability criteria for biomass and other issues which will contribute to the success of this energy and climate strategy in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u71	Mr President! It is a good thing that coal is going to be banned, but unfortunately the whole does not correspond to these self-favoring speeches about pioneering. After all, the government is even going to increase the burning of our domestic coal, or peat, while at the same time putting brakes on clean wind power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u74	Mr President! I don't quite understand this comment about brakes. I agree as such with these smart grids: they are a very central element not only in reforming the electricity system but also in moving the transport system towards a sustainable energy economy. With this strategy, the government will move forward with legislation that will develop the renewable energy support system so that, in addition to investment support, we will have production aid in the transition period, which will be implemented cost-effectively and technologically neutrally, so that solar power, wind power or small-scale CHP, i.e. small-scale electricity and heat production with renewable energy, are all on the same line, and in that sense we will use taxpayers' money in the most efficient way to achieve these renewable energy targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u75	We have one more question to ask, Mr. Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u76	Värderade Talman! Communications ministers planerar att införa avgifter på förbindelsebåtarna. Vi inom svenska riksdagsgruppen anser att de fast bosata i skärgården drabbas mest av det rauta, företag och familter som lever och verkar i skärgården.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u77	Värderade fru talman! Målet är att bevara en livskraftig skärgård, och att skärgården för såväl invånare som företag förblir livskraftig och skapar bättre förutsättningar. När de offentliga finanserna blir stramare och den bofasta befolkningen i skärgården minskar är det också sannolikt att de statligt finansierade tjänssterna inom förbindelsefartygstrafiken kommer att minska.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u78	Mr President! Connection ships are not comparable to public transport. The connecting vessels serve as an extension of the island road in the same way as the free-of-charge ferry. President! According to the Ministry's calculations, some 500 permanent residents of the archipelago use the contact vessel services that the Ministry wants to make available.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u79	Mr President! We currently have less than 300 islands in Finland, where there are also permanent settlements that do not have any contact vessel service available. I myself have also visited Örö Island in the summer of 2015, which, among other things, was excluded from the contact vessel services, and when the services were sought through tendering, they were offered by nine different companies. There were as fast boats as normal taxi boats, scheduled traffic, full-time cruises and other solutions. It is now extremely important that we are able to promote tourism, that we are also able to promote the services of the residents, and there are good experiences of this, for example, in Åland, where connection vessels are subject to a charge for both permanent residents and tourism. Above all, it has been able to maintain and develop services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u80	The 3rd issue of the daily order is the topical debate on the role of Parliament in promoting sustainable development. The debate will be opened by Aila Paloniemi, the first signatory of the discussion initiative. Ms Mykkänen, Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, and Mr Tiilikainen, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, each for 5 minutes. The other speeches shall be reserved by means of a P button and shall not exceed 2 minutes. I will then admit the speeches in the order I have considered. In addition to this, I will, at my discretion, give a response of 1 minute in the event of a need for a debation. Two hours are set aside for the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u81	Madam President! The UN Member States agreed on new sustainable development targets to be implemented by 2030. This is one of the most important openings for humanity and our planet, in which Finland is also involved. I myself come from a small village of Nopo-senaho, about 50 inhabitants, from Kyyjärvi. That is why it is absolutely wonderful in this environment, in this Parliament, to be able to talk about such a great thing for once. The 17 goals of sustainable development are that they apply to all countries in the world, not just developing countries, and their implementation is being closely monitored. It is great that Finland was among the first UN member countries to report on its initial plans for sustainable development last summer. The Finnish way of working has been commended in the world. Finland’s plan combines national and international sustainable development measures, and the plan is implemented jointly, on the whole of society. Our national implementation plan will be completed by the end of this year and expectations will therefore be high. The values and goals of sustainable development fit well in Finnish and Nordic thinking. They support development and economic growth where the needs of the present are met without depriving future generations of the opportunity to do the same. In addition, we must also reduce inequalities within our own generation, as well as between the sexes in Finland and the world. Never before has mankind been so dependent on one another and on diminishing resources. The effects of our own actions also extend far beyond the borders of our country, and we are affected by far-off events. That is why our national action plan also includes a global dimension. Finland is committed to helping achieve the SDGs in other parts of the world. This is what Finland does by means of development policy and development cooperation. We have many reasons to commit ourselves to promoting sustainable development beyond the borders of our country. In particular, continuing population growth in sub-Saharan Africa and in some Asian countries, and already record-sized young age groups, require sustainable solutions. Securing the pursuit of economic activities, decent, decent work, gender equality and the ability of societies to function are key issues for development policy. Climate change and the limited resources of the planet force us to act quickly. When implemented, the SDGs will lead us towards a more stable, prosperous and equal Finland and the world. However, the objectives are not self-fulfilling. That is why today we are discussing how the Finnish Parliament, representatives and parties respond to the challenge of sustainable development. The sustainable future of humanity and nature must be safeguarded now. We need to integrate sustainable development objectives into Finnish policy, decision-making and legislation. Mr President! The 17 objectives of sustainable development reflect the Nordic value base. The Nordic countries have played a key role in achieving them, and that is something to be proud of. We therefore have a special responsibility to achieve the objectives both here and in the world. As national parliaments play an important role in achieving these objectives, they have been actively involved in this process of creation. For example, in 2013 in Quito, Ecuador, parliamentarians around the world expressed their ideas about the Post 2015 development goals and resulted in a Quito Communication encouraging all parliaments in the world to legislate in line with sustainable development. In 2015, the Presidents of the World Parliament supported the objectives of sustainable development and expressed their will to actively implement them in their national parliaments. We are therefore committed to promoting the objectives of sustainable development. From the outset, the UN sustainable development process has been based on involving all countries, all actors from economic and political decision-makers to businesses and individuals, cities, municipalities and local communities. The 2050 Commitment website is an excellent tool for increasing ownership of this issue. The website already contains more than 300 policy commitments announced by Finnish operators. Finnish strengths include targets for carbon neutrality and a resource-wise economy. Sustainable development thinking is learned at home, in schools and local communities and should be updated throughout the life cycle. Parliament and Parliament have a special role to play here: all legislation, various national programmes, policy guidelines and the state budget should be based on sustainable development. In addition, MPs have an important role to play in raising awareness of sustainable development among their constituents and the administrations of the regions they represent. In order to achieve the SDGs, legislative implementation at national level and compliance with international commitments is needed. Parliament and governments must ensure that the necessary new laws are laid down and that existing ones are adapted in line with the new global objectives set by Agenda 2030. It is also important to address the challenges identified in Finland’s sustainability assessments. These include climate change and the use of our resources, which are relevant to our consumption and production methods. The sustainability of public procurement or wage equality or violence against women are also examples of themes that require active action from Parliament. Representatives can call for committee consultations and progress reports, bring sustainable development objectives to public awareness and the media, and actively discuss progress on sustainable development with civil society, thereby strengthening transparency at all levels. Mr President! It is therefore necessary to ensure that the committees deal with the sustainable development objectives of their field of activity. The committees have specific knowledge of their field of activity and the committee can focus closely on monitoring the sustainable development objectives in its field, in cooperation with the relevant ministries and officials. I would also like to ask whether, for example, the Committee on the Future could take over the main responsibility for monitoring the objectives of sustainable development in general. Of course, resources, political will and genuine commitment are needed to achieve these objectives. Annual budget debates and budget preparation should ensure that the SDGs are reflected in the state budget and should also be reflected at municipal level. The objectives of sustainable development must be included in the preparation of the budget from the start of the process. Mr President! Parliament is well placed to implement sustainable development in its national policies. The opposite is true in poor and fragile countries, where administrative capacity and state resources are often extremely low. However, some of these countries have also been taken up. In Pakistan, for example, a task force has been set up in the national parliament. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development obliges countries such as Finland to act as a global partner for the fragile and poorest countries. The Government's development policy programme provides a good basis for this. Priorities include improving the position of women and girls, strengthening the capacity of economies and societies in developing countries, sustainable natural resource policy, trade and technology cooperation and private sector involvement. In addition, the international partnership dimension has been included in almost every objective. Examples include the development of national social systems, taxation or sustainable industrialisation. Food security, for example, is no longer a national issue. Similarly, trade barriers restricting access to medicines, exports from developing countries or increased value added should be dismantled. At the same time, we ourselves should look critically at, for example, our production and supply chains or the use of fossil fuels. Finland’s development funding corresponds to 0.40 per cent of GDP next year. It is not in line with Finland’s international commitments. Development cooperation and aid to the poorest countries in Finland are expected to fall to 0.15% of gross national income. It is also not in line with the UN's 2030 Agenda objective. But that agenda is a great opportunity: never before has there been a similar global framework for cooperation and partnership. With this speech, I will open our debate and challenge you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and the Government, to actively promote the objectives of sustainable development and their implementation at all levels, both in Finland and internationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u82	Now, Minister Mykkänen, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u83	Mr President! Thank you to the authors of the initiative for a debate, an important topic. In this speech, I thought first of all to briefly describe from the government's point of view this implementation process of Agenda 2030 and its importance, then a little more specific about my portfolio, the link between development cooperation and this implementation of Agenda 2030, and, thirdly, trade and export links with the promotion of sustainable development and the Agenda 2030 agenda. First of all, it can easily be cynical about how much the UN’s agreed goals will bring about real change in what we see in the world. But it has to be said that, when these Millennium Goals were set, many of them, in fact, went off to an accelerated stage, such as a clear reduction in extreme poverty and an increase in the availability of clean water, and some of them certainly are focused on the measures taken by the world community. In this respect, we must hope that the same thing will happen with regard to Agenda 2030. A new point of view is that now these clearly apply to all countries. So the developing countries are not as if the Western world's objectives are the targets, but each country is concentrating — and therefore also this implementation plan for the Finnish Government, where we are really pioneering towards most of the other UN Member States — above all how we transform Finland into a society of sustainable development. An important purpose from my point of view is to create a clear monitoring structure both annually and in the longer term. Otherwise, it is easy to remain in goals and speeches. In this respect, this initiative for coordinating the role of the Committee on the Future is quite justified. We also briefly discussed it with Mr Tiilikainen. After all, we have a particular focus on carbon-neutral society and resource-wise Finland, on the one hand, and an equal, equal, knowledgeable Finland, on the other, in which case we will inevitably enter the competence area of more than one committee. In this respect, the role of the Committee on the Future can be very natural. As far as the links in development cooperation are concerned, our priorities in the development policy report, which my predecessor presented here in the spring and which was approved by Parliament, are very well suited to Agenda 2030 and, of course, it is not a coincidence. Our first priority is the position of women and girls. This is reflected in the fact that, even in a difficult economic situation, we have clearly prioritised UN Women, UNFPA and its type of activity, for example, in the UN system, which specifically supports values such as equality, education for women and girls, which, unfortunately, today are not self-evident even to the extent that the UN system may have shared the objective a few years ago more widely. In this respect, it is important for the Nordic countries to raise the flag on this issue. I also asked my Nordic colleagues at the Development Ministers' meeting about three weeks ago whether others have noticed that there is perhaps a certain difficulty in this situation, both in Europe and in the world, and everyone agreed that there is and that we must now get together as a group of countries, particularly in favour of women, girls and the disabled, and in favour of equality. It's important. Secondly, we have to raise our economies to their feet. In this regard, even in an economically difficult situation, when we have the possibility of clearly increasing investment-based support, I would argue — as I go around the field, for example, last week in Africa, Kenya and Tanzania — that it will be able to do significant amounts. For example, a capital loan of EUR 130 million from Finnfund can now guarantee some 20 million people clean, emission-free electricity. It is a very good instrument for such projects, and I believe that, on the side of climate finance, for example, we can, in addition to participating in these official funds, as in the case of the Paris Agreement, make a very significant contribution to the transformation of the energy system in developing countries. Our contribution to climate finance as a whole will increase in this period. Two other priorities will then be a democratic and well-functioning society, including tax collection capacity. In this respect, it is important that if one percentage point of GDP were to increase tax collection capacity in the poorest countries, it would replace all international development aid. We are doubling the development aid for the strengthening of tax collection capacity to around EUR 34 million by 2019, which is not quite easy, but we are doing it and we have already identified these projects. And fourth, clean water, energy. In this respect, as I mentioned, this type of investment funding is central. And then, when we come to solutions, what we presented here today as a government — Finland's ambitious energy strategy, the abandonment of coal, the halving of fossil oil — will create the solutions that, by scaling, we will then be able to implement a clean system in India, China, where climate change will be resolved. But I think this is where the time comes, and I am sure that during the debate we will continue from different angles. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u84	Next up, Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes for you, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u85	Mr President! Thank you to those who have taken the initiative for this very timely opportunity for debate. In July, Finland presented its own plans and actions for the national implementation of Agenda 2030 among the first countries. In fact, I was allowed to present them myself at the UN Sustainable Development Monitoring Conference in New York, and, as Minister Mykkänen said, Finland is, in a certain way, a very pioneer in this implementation. It is no coincidence, for we, for example, have had a committee for sustainable development for 25 years, so we always have the desired society to develop in a balanced way according to these principles of sustainable development. Well, now Agenda 2030 is a new programme. In fact, when Finland reported on it and its own implementation work, we received a great deal of praise and attention from other Member States, but also from representatives of civil society. It was particularly appreciated that we also raised our own challenges — not only praise where we are good, but recognise where we have something to improve — and at the same time involve the scientific community and civil society players in this country's reporting. As a result of long-term and inclusive action, Finland currently has a very good reputation for promoting sustainable development and Agenda 2030 globally, both within the EU and within the UN. We want to learn about Finland’s operating methods elsewhere in Europe and the world, and we also have many cooperation projects or models in progress. With Colombia, for example, we have an exchange of experience and peer learning at expert level, and Colombia was also one of the first rapporteurs, and this good cooperation will continue in the coming year. Several international studies have been carried out on the capacity of countries to implement global Agenda 2030 measures. This year, too, an evaluation was carried out in Finland of where we are good, what our capabilities are, where we have something to improve. When sustainable development is put into practice, it is essential to note its own starting position. According to the indicators used in the study, Finland’s starting point as a whole is quite good in international comparisons, but in recent years progress has not been sufficient. So we have something to improve. Finland's key strengths in implementing sustainable development are, as we know, high-quality education and knowledge based on it, the general stability of society, democratic institutions and good governance. The main areas of improvement in this analysis were, for example, the fight against climate change, the consumption of natural resources and economic and employment developments. All these are also the measures that the current government is vigorously committed to, and I am glad that today I am able to put in my chest the pins of sustainable development numbers 7 and 13, that is, clean energy and climate action, because the government has taken an important, huge step towards improving these things in Finland. We have a major tool in Finland as a tool for broad engagement and inclusion, i.e. a social commitment to sustainable development, which has been adapted to these 17 global targets for 8 further crystallisations, which give Finland a national interpretation of the 2030 Agenda objectives. This commitment to society is an innovative tool that enables the various actors in society to start implementing this programme. The idea is to think about a concrete action, such as what a company, organisation, city or, for example, an educational institution wants to do to promote sustainable development, and it sets itself a goal, works, follows and reports. There are 340 of these kind of commitment makers in Finland already, and this, my friends, has attracted a great deal of interest in the world as a tool for implementing sustainable development. Mr President! Now the government is working to finalise the National Sustainable Development Implementation Plan. Mr Mykkänen has already raised these key issues and priorities, but the work of the Parliament, the role of Parliament in this is sustainable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u86	And now we're expanding the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u87	Mr President! Finland and other industrialised countries are used to playing a donor role in the world community. We're used to telling people what to do. Now this setup has been broken and the rules of the game have been rewritten. In the new UN Sustainable Development Agenda, all the countries of the world are developing countries, including Finland. The 17 objectives are equally binding on all countries and actors and making each country accountable to its own people and to the international community. It is of the utmost importance that Parliament and the political machinery as a whole commit themselves to the Agency and implement it in all policy areas, both internal and external, economic and environmental policy, and change in the way in which they think and act. The Agenda must be involved in all legislation and in the budgeting of the state. The Government's legislative proposals should already assess the impact of sustainable development and the state budget should be built and evaluated in the light of the objectives of the Agenda. The Minister has proposed that the Committee on the Future should be given responsibility for monitoring the agenda. This is a good idea, but each committee must take responsibility for implementing the agenda in its own activities and in its own sector. It is particularly important that the Committee on Finance, which is responsible for the state budget, is familiar with the agenda and commits to it. It is also important to bring the implementation follow-up of the agenda regularly to the large Chamber of Parliament, and it is a good idea to follow the matter in connection with the Government's annual report, but it is not enough. A report debate is also needed at least once in the government term. Mr President! Finland has done a good job, but we also have challenges. The government's economic policy increases income disparities, which is clearly contrary to point 10 of the Agenda. The government has made huge cuts to the development budget, and that is also against the agenda. Finland may be the biggest challenge on the environmental side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u88	I would remind Members that we are now having a debate with two-minute speeches and that we can reserve them with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u89	Mr President! It is very important that we hold this topical debate, particularly here in the great Chamber of Parliament, and also from the point of view of the way in which the role of Parliament can be strengthened in this common agenda for the promotion of sustainable development. Indeed, Finland has been very successful in international comparisons of sustainable development and, for example, this social commitment has been a process that has been praised. But in recent years we have not really excelled in these comparisons. Our development has faded and our investment has declined. However, we still have a good chance of being a pioneer and acting better than we are now, but it is precisely because we need to improve our running towards sustainable development. We therefore need an ambitious programme of measures to ensure that the objectives of sustainable development and their promotion are reflected in all the decision-making and in all the policies that we are doing. The government has, of course, the main responsibility for implementation, but the government alone cannot manage and cannot manage this whole, but we need broad cooperation: civil society, organisations, private companies, universities, the scientific community and so on, municipalities and regions – all of them will play a very central role in the future. Yes, cross - sectionedness and universality mean that in pursuing these goals we must all be involved. There are now good proposals on how Parliament's work can be strengthened here as a whole, but I consider this report and the debate on it to be very important in this Chamber, as well as the idea that the objectives of sustainable development should be:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u90	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Bureau and also the Council of Presidents for allowing us to hold this important debate today. There seems to be quite a turmoil around us: wars, conflicts and crises have gone nowhere. But in a situation like this, I think it is really important to remember also that much has also been achieved, just as mentioned here for example in the UN Millennium Development Goals: many have become true. It has not happened by itself, it has taken a lot of work. Similarly, the Paris climate conference is a positive sign — I hope that everyone will continue to commit to it. We must continue to be able to commit to these important objectives. There are many challenges: population growth, the different challenges it poses, climate change, biodiversity loss. But just as well, the growth in inequality around the world is a worrying phenomenon, which unfortunately also gives rise to various forms of violence and conflict, and this objective, the eradication of the growth of inequality, we cannot ignore here in Parliament either. And so all of these are involved in these UN Sustainable Development Goals. The Finnish model has already been mentioned here. It's become a thank-you. In particular, I would like to mention that, at least in the Development Policy Committee, we were mentioned that thanks had also come from the fact that the organisations were strongly involved. It is not always self-evident in many countries, and I would also like us in Parliament to see to it that, when we have these forthcoming debates, we involve civil society strongly in this debate and in our work. And I very much hope that all the parliamentary committees will take on their responsibilities in this regard, and I also support the fact that the government will submit a report on this programme of measures so that we can also reach out to the committees in greater detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u91	Madam President! The Government considers it important that progress towards the SDGs is as clearly visible and predictable as possible. In order to ensure this, it is planned to add a contribution to the Government's annual report on sustainable development. This would provide Parliament with an opportunity to discuss sustainable development on an annual basis. In addition, Parliament and Parliament must raise issues of sustainable development to public debate and make a concrete commitment to sustainable development in order to promote sustainable development. We all have to take part in these efforts. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Mr President! Finnish forestry is at stake in Brussels. The EU Commission has adopted a proposal for a Regulation including the inclusion of the forestry sector in the EU Energy and Climate Package 2030. The Commission's proposal will have a significant impact on Finland's forest bioeconomy. The proposal can be interpreted as meaning that Finland’s forests are a source of CO2 emissions. Only seven European parliamentarians fully support the Finnish bioeconomy strategy. What do the other six do? I'm sure they don't know what they're thinking, and they're doing a lot of damage to Finland. I believe that they too should be involved in promoting sustainable development in their country. Minister, shall we invite them to the country of origin for an interview? Of course, we ourselves have voted that...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u92	Madam President! In my own speech, I would like to take a brief look at this subject with the eyes of a 16-year-old young American man. What does that mean when we talk about the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the great historic turning point, the point where we are forced to change the direction of the ship, so that the opportunities for global living will also exist in the future? Perhaps many in this Chamber have heard of an American young man named Xiuhtezcatl Martinez. He is a 16-year-old American youth who has sued the US State for its inability to combat climate change. The wild thing about this arrangement is that he and 19 other young people raised this challenge and immediately got the U.S. government and the biggest oil companies trying to block this challenge. There was a struggle for this, and eventually these young people won this situation, this case, and now they have reached the next historic stage, that is to say, they were granted this right of challenge. But it is only this setting, where 19 young people under 18 years of age are coming after the U.S. government and the big oil companies, that tells a lot about the power arrangement, the battle and the global picture we are currently in. When asked what drives him, why does he do this, Martinez said that he is a 16-year-old young boy and, of course, much prefers to skate with friends and spend a relaxed time, but from his point of view adult people have not been able to take responsibility for his future and he is genuinely afraid of what kind of world he grows up into, and he sees that the time for action is now, and if no one else acts, they must act as young people. I would see that this is a rather big challenge for us in this Chamber as well and I hope to emphasise again how important a historic turning point we are talking about and how important it is for all of us to do so, and how important it is for us, as a Parliament, of course, to look at this from both a domestic and a global point of view in development cooperation, but it also binds us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u93	Värderade Talman! As we all know, the Paris climate agreement obliges and now, after Trump's victory, even more so than before. Regrettably, often a meagre view of self-reliance pushes over solidarity. Throughout the ages, this has been the source of the vitality of populist movements, the idea that there is a self-interest and then the rest of the world that you do not need to care about. Well, we all know that this is not the case. No country can limit its position to a world within its own borders. If you're wrong to do that, you shoot at your own ankle. In our own economy, the few industrial joys have just left the industries that see the common interest, the importance of a clean environment as the key to their activities. — Mr Strand will be able to say something more about this. But back to Paris and Marrakech. We can do better here too. Until last year, Finland was a model country for climate finance. We applied the innovative idea that emissions trading revenues should be allocated not to the source of emissions but to the prevention and correction of emissions. That sounds obvious, doesn't it? Well, not anymore. I'm aware that the world is not black and white. Nevertheless, forgetting this principle is a major accident. That is why it has been a pleasure to note that within the government this has been noticed. The minimum requirement is what Mr Rehn raised here a few weeks ago, and I hope it will be remembered that this income should be directed towards investments in reducing emissions. What is the point of this at the moment? I hope this illogicality will soon be resolved. But back to the big picture. 100 billion climate finance per year — it is big money, but let's put it in perspective. Fossil fuels are supported by 500 billion globally on an annual basis, 20% of which is climate finance. It doesn't feel like much. However, it is made up of many small brooks that should be gathered together, and we also have those scapegoats, especially perhaps on the side of peat production. If we are serious about our climate goals,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u94	Madam President! I would also like to thank Parliament and also the signatories of the initiative for allowing us to have this valuable debate on sustainable development and the implementation of Agenda 2030. In fact, the Finnish Government has moved very quickly in this front row. Prime Minister-ledly, we are taking this work forward, and I too think it is important that there is extensive cooperation between ministries and that all ministries commit themselves to this, because these objectives are extremely ambitious and challenging. They are also challenging for Finland, we have our own disgrace, violence against women, which is also something that must be corrected with these objectives. Tomorrow we'll be spending an orange day as a reminder that there's plenty of work to do. But then Finland has much to offer the world, developing countries and developing countries in how they can achieve these goals. And since the objectives are very ambitious, I understand that the UN has also considered it important to involve the private sector and businesses. This cannot be financed by public funding alone, nor by such good thinking and good goals, but it really does need to be done on promises, and some of these things cost a lot of money. I would like to ask Mr Mykkäs how this investment-based funding can improve, prevent and slow down climate change effectively. Do you see that there are real opportunities in Africa, for example, where there is a very serious situation? The second is women's rights, the empowerment of women, and, as you said, at the moment, this issue is not very windy in the world. When we are already following the speech of the future President of the United States, we are concerned, for example, about the financing of UNFPA: what will happen to it, and can we, among the like-minded countries, do more and raise this issue more? I hope, therefore, that at the bilateral ministerial meetings, you will always keep these sustainable development objectives on the agenda as you move around the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u95	Madam President! The topical debate related to the Sustainable Development Agenda coincides well with the Government's climate and energy strategy. These goals in sustainable development are, of course, universal, and they also require a global responsibility to implement them, but equally locally, locally, each country must take responsibility for its part in fulfilling the various objectives. This will not only be the case if countries, governments, public actors commit themselves to promoting it. We also need companies and organisations to be involved in achieving the objectives of the Agenda for Sustainable Development. On the weekend, worried about Savo's Sanomas, I read the views of the chairman of a parliamentary group of the Government Party on how development aid should be completely stopped, and I thought that this was hopefully more of this so-called private thinking. At the moment, we have problems with the way in which, for example, NGOs, which are doing extremely important work in many different areas of development, have been able to cope with these cuts in development aid. In particular, many Finnish development aid organisations — and many of them still have an ideological, Christian background — have helped women and children and have worked among the poorest. And if we now think that this kind of thinking is becoming more common in Finland, that there is no need for development aid, then with what miracle can we help people locally if we assume that we do not want to assume the responsibility that belongs to us? I would have liked to have heard the views of the ministers on whether development aid cuts are still on the way and whether the government is going to take this line and how, in particular, aid from NGOs will be maintained in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u96	Madam President! In order to promote sustainable development, I, ourselves and the whole of the world's population must and must work more. It's not a single column. It is a question of which committee we are dealing with, but it should be involved in the daily lives of all of us, how we can contribute by our actions, our actions, our behaviour to make progress on sustainable development. The dimensions must be economic, ecological and social. I am particularly addressed at the moment by clean water, food and energy, and when we talk about these three elements, how, for example, is food produced in a sustainable way on earth? How will the availability of food be secured in areas where food cannot be produced at the moment and there are famines? On the other hand, there is plenty of food on the other side of the earth and food is put into waste. For example, how can the circular economy be improved with regard to food? The Government's energy and climate strategy gives us good grounds for wanting and being able to promote renewable energies in Finland. These global climate agreements now force us to take national action seriously, and that is a good thing. For example, alternative fuels for transport can be our export product in the future. We have expertise and hopefully also use in the coming years for electric cars and gas and bio-based fuels, so that Finland's climate is cleaned up but can also be exported to Morocco, for example. In Marrakech, where we just visited the climate conference, air quality was extremely poor. Where, if any, such sustainable development
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u97	Mr President! The last couple of decades have been good for sustainable development in many respects, and one can even say encouraging times. Globalisation has narrowed the income gap between countries and raised a record large number of people from poverty. The commitment of the UN Member States to the MDGs has produced results that few people dared to take seriously. But environmental threats, especially the extinction of species and climate change, have increased. On the other hand, there has been a growing awareness that something can be done about it. Today, all achievements are at stake. The growth of world trade is going to be replaced by a threat of trade wars. The leadership of global sustainable development is missing. And Finland is also breaking away from the shared responsibility. Mr President! The Finnish Government must encourage the European Union to lead the way towards sustainable development, and Finland itself must take the initiative. Finland must ensure that social policy and, in particular, economic policy solutions are implemented in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. A clear plan must be made for the increase in development cooperation appropriations and a fixed timetable for raising their national income to 0.7%. 0.2 percentage points of this must be directed to the poorest countries. Finland must commit itself to fulfilling our share of international climate finance. Inequality both within Finland and between countries must be reduced by putting tax havens under control. The rights of women and girls must be given priority in Finland's development policy report. It is worth noting, President, that discrimination experienced by girls is often invisible. This Key 2030 report of the Prime Minister's Office has been commissioned to pave the way for a national implementation plan and draws attention to Finland's poor performance in terms of decent work and economic growth — Objective 8 — and climate action — Objective 13. However, the 2030 Agenda targets apply to all of us. Let us do our best!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u98	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Paloniemi for her excellent initiative in the debate, and what I have listened to in this respect is all the same thing, which I have already noticed in other associations, that if there is a certain form of police paper, then unfortunately that implementation will be more challenging and may be very ineffective. I would like to take, for example, this national 1325 implementation programme in Finland, the report of which stated that the implementation of the resolution has been partly ineffective at both national and international level. The same is now true of this Agenda 2030. I would like to emphasise and insist that this implementation will be put into practice, and this committee for sustainable development, which is intended to monitor and evaluate it, will play an important role in this. With regard to these issues of climate change: they were indeed very ambitious objectives of the Paris climate conference. For us in Finland, where there are long distances — and the transport sector will, of course, play a prominent role then — it would certainly be quite important to increase the use of these advanced biofuels and their use. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how to ensure that companies and the private sector are involved in creating sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u99	Madam President! Agenda 2030 is binding on all countries, including Finland. We must work towards achieving goals such as sustainable economic growth and fair treatment of workers. It is therefore important that Finland ensure sufficient resources to achieve the objectives. Until 2030, Finland should commit itself to assessing the achievement of the targets as part of the state budget. We must be able to go through every year's budget so that we look at it through the Agenda 2030 glasses: is the state budget in line with the objective of eliminating poverty in Finland too or of reducing inequalities within the country? At least the cut in the budget for development cooperation is not in line with Agenda 2030. Finland should raise its share to 0.7% of gross national income and monitor the share of development funds in the poorest countries. We must also demand transparency and corporate responsibility when we establish new private partnerships. My question to the honourable ministers is: how are the national targets for Agenda 2030 reflected in the budgetary process, and how does the budget reflect these objectives? The second question is: how will global objectives be financed after massive cuts in development funds?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u100	Madam President! Effective and fair taxation is a prerequisite for sustainable development. Tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and direct tax evasion undermine the foundation of well-being and sustainable development around the world. Tax havens play a key role in this. Most of the tax losses and money lost in tax havens are related to tax avoidance or aggressive tax planning by multinational companies. Corruption, money laundering and other criminal activities also cause losses. The vast majority of world trade, up to 70%, takes place within multinational companies. One large company may have hundreds of subsidiaries in different countries, which is why there is great potential for abuse of transfer pricing, undercapitalisation and other financial arrangements used in intra-group transactions. For developing countries, the tax haven economy is a poverty trap. From the global south, more than EUR 800 billion are fleeing tax-free capital to rich countries each year and behind the secret laws of tax havens. This amount corresponds to 8 to 9 times the total amount of development aid. If this were to be addressed, the conditions for eradicating poverty and inequality and preparing for climate change would be quite different. The EU region also loses more money due to the shadow economy and international tax evasion than is the combined health budget of the EU countries. According to a recent Finnwatch study, Finland also loses between EUR 400 million and EUR 1,400 million a year due to aggressive corporate tax planning. Mr President! There are solutions to the problem if there is a will. General rules should be agreed in a multi-centred manner within the UN. Progress has been made at EU level, but unfortunately too often there have been weak compromises. In Finland, there is no desire to regulate more stringent rules at national level, such as country-specific reporting of multinational companies and disclosure of ownership, beneficiary information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u101	Madam President! In my actual speech, I have already referred to the fact that the UN’s sustainable development objectives reflect the Nordic values. I would like to say a few more words about this. Of course, national plans are an essential part of implementation, but in many areas the plan could be joint Nordic. This has been discussed at the Nordic Council meeting in Copenhagen a few weeks ago. Women's rights, the bio-economy, the circular economy and food production were among the areas that were particularly highlighted there. Prime Minister Sipilä spoke about the Nordic biofuels targets and the Swedish Prime Minister Löfve's fossil-free Nordic transport area. These are interesting openings. I would like to ask — because funding here is also essential if we want to move forward: The Danish Government intends to set up a fund to pool private and public capital with a view to achieving the UN’s sustainable development objectives. Could this fund be joint Nordic? The Nordic countries could set an example here precisely in that we can develop such creative new financing models.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u102	Before the ministers, let's take Mr. Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u103	Mr President! I'm surprised, but thank you for that. — In Agenda 2030, my favourite goals are number 5 and number 17. I think that the basis for all this is this 17, which commits to international cooperation, to maintaining a common legal basis, to promoting the work of the UN, and so on, and to organisations that promote human rights and democracy. On the other hand, number 5 is equality; there has already been some talk of it today. It is interesting to think that, in fact, investing in 10-year-old girls, in girls’ schooling and in their sexual health can mean major changes in the poorest countries. We also know that the most dangerous places for a woman are at home. In the poorest countries, young girls die in childbirth when they actually have their first children as children. Then, in Finland and perhaps elsewhere, violence against women is a truly everyday threat. In particular, I would like these issues to be included in our national implementation programme. It is a great shame that we cannot be pioneers in the world, too, in promoting equality in reality, just when it comes to violence and anti-violence. Ebba Witt-Brattström, a professor of Nordic languages at the University of Helsinki — he is Swedish — said that in Sweden they are among the best in the world to talk about equality. It's kind of true for us, too. Of course, in global terms we are doing well, but I think we could have so much better. I therefore appeal to the men of this Parliament to take responsibility for this as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u104	And then Minister Mykkänen, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u105	Mr President! Yes, there were so many good points that it was difficult to answer everyone. But here I am perhaps starting from what Mr Tuppurainen, for example, very well pointed out that how globalisation, the fall of walls, free trade have in fact reduced the income gap between nations globally, and that is in fact a very important issue. We also had a debate among trade ministers on the post-CETA perspective, as it were, that in the future how we could conclude free trade agreements in general. They already contain more concepts of sustainable development than they are most often seen in terms of rules on, for example, the dismantling of fossil subsidies, which Mr Adlercreutz spoke about. But they would have to be even more relevant. One big question is what Mr Uotila pointed out: can the rules on avoidance of tax evasion be pursued more vigorously in the context of intercontinental free trade agreements? The challenge is, of course, that many Member States, for example within the European Union, believe that it is purely national competence. Of course, this is a difficult question for us too. But here, for example, on my own initiative, I did talk about this at the lunch of the trade ministers at this point, because we need to find a way to regulate trade even more closely in line with the challenges of globalisation. The second option is that we are falling into slump and into national trade areas, and that is a very bad path for both development and living standards. Mr Paloniemi spoke about this Nordic cooperation and, in fact, we also talked about very much the same things in the composition of development ministers as in that public part of Copenhagen. Denmark, for example, has an interesting initiative on fund-based development aid, in which they are also taking part. We have palpations about the same type of Finland. Then, for example, Mr Toivakka referred to investment-based financing and its climate benefits, and in that introductory speech I already referred to Finnfund's estimate of capitalisation that some 20 million people in the clean electricity district with those investments. We are now examining, as such, the opening of the window of its remaining EUR 440 million during this term of government, including through the World Bank, the IFC, to our priority projects. There are discussions about Finnfund's separate climate fund and so on. All of this is about how to leverage international capital, including the capital of employment pension companies, private capital, into climate finance. I believe, therefore, that this way, although the cutbacks in gift money are substantial and difficult, we are able, in particular, to contribute more to the climate objective, which is typically an investment activity in developing countries, in fact, to share the risk more than before. I do not dispute at all what several representatives have of course brought up here, including Mrs Aalto, that of course our cutbacks in the form of gift aid will reduce our chances. However, when we have worked very hard to clean up next year's economic and action plan in our ministry, I would say that the impact of these cuts is not quite as great as the percentage of cuts, because we can also make quite a lot of choices about where we spend the money, and we can, as it were, prioritise the most important projects. I believe that we will also work with the Development Policy Commission, for example, which is a good sparring partner. For example, the difficult question is whether we should invest even more in water or energy-related investments or, as it were, in capacity building and knowledge. A week ago, I was allowed to open up a new power management system in Dar es Salaam, which reduces power cuts and reduces the use and collection of polluting charcoal, makes it possible to go to work and to go to school instead of collecting the last trace of Dar es Salaam’s nearby forests for incineration. It is in the form of investment, and it is a clear result. On the other hand, it is equally important to strengthen the capacity of the Tanzanian tax administration, for example. Such choices here have to be much thought about that which is the focus. The organisation grants were referred to by Mr Essayah, and that is something in my plan, for which next year, when the evaluation of the organisations is completed, we will take a close look at the proportion of organisations in relation to the rest of the development aid pot and what is the way in which perhaps more prioritised, which organisations are the most effective. I think it has to start with what's making the difference in the field. Not in itself the fact that what the organization itself does and then the processes that exist for self-financing, for example. But on that point, I thought that when the evaluation is complete, it would be possible to carry it better. This was a very good speech by Toivola on the climate mission, and many others have also referred to it, and I have to say that it is true that, through the pioneers and by scaling those solutions to India, China and elsewhere, there is a way in which the positive handprint of the Finns can be many times more than that of our carbon footprint. I hope we can all work together to take that agenda forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u106	And Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u107	Mr President! Thank you for your good, active contributions, and for your comments. Some comments. Of course, it has been assessed here how sustainable development is going within Finland, and that is precisely the new thing brought about by Agenda 2030, that this is not just a development policy. I am delighted that Parliament considers that many committees should be able to monitor the progress of the objectives. When Finland is generally judged to be quite high here, of course, as elsewhere as sustainable development is invested and progressed, there is now also realism that we cannot be the number one in the world – that too must be acknowledged. But it is also the honest self-assessment that has been carried out here this summer with an independent analysis, and the three points that have been identified, in particular, as where we have something to improve, relate to the fight against climate change, the use of natural resources and the economic and employment situation. Well, do you see these in government politics? Many of you have asked whether the achievement of sustainable development objectives is visible — at this point it is easy to say that yes. If we start with this climate, it is precisely the ambitious energy and climate strategy that has been announced today that will meet this challenge. Use and consumption of natural resources: You have probably heard that the circular economy is one of the government’s top projects — to be the leading country in the circular economy. That is the answer to this very point. Economic and employment developments: it is the government that is working on employment, the start-up of growth in entrepreneurship on a broad front. In other words, the measures taken by the government are very much in line with this independent analysis, where we have the most to improve. Then there will be a whole series of details, and when I spoke in that introductory speech about the report on Finland in the UN that I did, I also raised this point there that we too have something to improve. Although Finland is known as a country of equality, it was here that I brought up the violence of women that Mrs Toivaka raised. For this honesty, Finland was praised. I also welcome Mrs Huovinen's thanks with satisfaction: not only do we involve civil society in this work in Finland, but also give them the voice in international fora. Well, then the criticism has come, of course, from how we can influence the outside world, and Mr Mykkänen, Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, has largely responded to this. There is one more point I would like to make. Now that we undoubtedly have good knowledge in the organisations in implementing development projects, rather than just sprinkle the ashes on us, saying that, in the current economic situation, we are not able to do more, I have suggested that we should, together with the government and the organisations, think about how best we can, together with our long-term development partners, get money from international sources, so that our expertise and the unquestionable needs of our long-term partners can also be carried forward through international funding, and in this respect, for example, it is very important to improve the capacity of the partner countries. When Mr Biaudet spoke about this partnership perspective, this is an extremely important issue. When we visit other countries, we meet our colleagues and reflect on their development and how Finland could support it, it is precisely this that we also combine the achievement of this sustainable development goals with the contribution of Finnish cleantech, for example, to good environmental status or climate policy, while at the same time definitely contributing to the achievement of these many social objectives. The opening and honest discussion of this equation is, I understand, one of the forms of partnership with partners in all international contexts. Mr President, some comments have been made in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u108	Mr President! Indeed, the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals are new to the fact that they concern the world as a whole and recognise the importance of poverty eradication in the developing world. But in the world in general, how our economic system works is linked to the state of the environment and the state of the environment depends on people being able to rise from poverty. It is important to recognise the link between all these policies. One thing I would like to express my concern about is that when Finland has made a strong cut in its own development cooperation budget in the previous year, there is a risk that, although there are good objectives in themselves for making more and more such technology-based climate projects with development funds, at the same time, the state that goes to the poorest countries to help people will be reduced. In other words, the contribution to the poorest countries is falling from 0.22% to 0.14 and this is going in the wrong direction for Finland. I ask the ministers: are you going to do something about this development? In other words, the focus of Finland has always been to help the most vulnerable countries, especially girls, to get into education, and to strengthen communities that, for example, do not have access to clean food and energy. In addition to that, I would also like to highlight a subject which is on my former Minister's property, the current Minister for the Land of Tiilikainen, and that is the protection of the seas. International regulation is needed to protect the seas, especially in the Arctic, so that we can move forward without endangering the sensitive nature of the Arctic. How is the establishment of a network of nature conservation in the Arctic Seas? And how, Minister Tiilikainen, can international meetings address marine litter and plastic pollution, which is a big, growing global problem? I would also like to ask what is the situation with regard to fish stocks, because the vast majority of fish stocks in the world are running out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u109	Madam President! I will continue with the question of Mr Niinistö — you spoke about development cooperation, and we all know that we have had to cut back on development cooperation funds. However, there is a slight increase in the draft budget for this year. Minister Mr Mykkänen may be able to tell us whether there have been any new orientations in the country-specific priorities. Mr Niinistö raised the question as to whether aid would be directed to the poorest. In that respect, we have obviously had a somewhat broad spectrum of how many countries we are helping. Is there some clarification now, and if so, what direction? In the context of the budget debate last autumn, Finnfund's capitalisation was actively discussed here and raised many questions. After all, Finnfund has a number of objectives that are on the agenda for sustainable development, such as reducing gender gaps, poverty reduction, job creation and energy investment, so that electric energy is available in an increasing number of regions. How are gender equality and employment opportunities reflected in Finnfund’s decisions and investments? That's my question. Finally, on this climate agreement in Paris, which has been greatly praised here. Unfortunately, this target list for sustainable development lacks a direct reference to demographic targets. Would it be possible to think that we would sometimes have a global demographic target or a demographic pact? Is that an overly ambitious goal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u110	Madam President! It is understandable that, in order to achieve these Agenda 2030 objectives, these efforts must be a cross-cutting objective in all our activities, i.e. all the committees must follow this up, but I support the idea that one committee should take such a cognitional responsibility. We have to accept that fine words alone are not enough; we need real money. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time, and climate change and its effects are actually reflected in all 17 objectives. Others are affected directly and strongly, but through indirect effects all of them. The Government today published an energy and climate strategy, and it contains many good means, but overall the Government's climate policy is contradictory: Let's speak fine words while climate emissions have not been controlled and business subsidies that are harmful to the climate have been increased. The funds of development organisations have also been cut, although they are an important means of supporting the fight against climate change. These cuts in development cooperation are contrary to the objectives of this Agenda. One concrete way of implementing this could be to remedy this situation. We must ensure that we fulfil our share of international climate finance and ensure that others do so too. That aid, that money, must be targeted at the most vulnerable regions and groups, because climate finance is an important tool to prevent distress, conflicts and refugees. Mr President! I'm so lucky. Most of my life, the threat of war has been a very distant threat. But now, as the world polarizes and hate speech grows, it feels that the threat is getting closer and closer. It is therefore extremely important that, in line with the Agenda objectives, we promote peaceful societies and guarantee access to justice for all and build effective and responsible institutions at all levels. But one thing we must also address nationally is hate speech. Anger speech creates hatred according to its name; it gives way to hate. It divides us into two or more different camps and sets us against one another. At its worst, hatred leads to violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u111	Mr President! Sustainable development is a broad concept, and both national and global links are interlinked. I would like to stress that we need the development aid that Finland is giving us, that we are not going to have quite the wrong idea. But when we think of this at national level, it is good to be aware that we have good starting points. I appreciate the fact that we have democracy and stability in our country. It may not be in every part of the world. Although we are criticized, we have high quality education, health services and clean water, which is terribly important. When it comes to poverty, it is quite different from that of many developing countries. Today we heard about the government's actions. It has promised that the use of coal will be cut off and different forms of biofuels will take place. And, as the Minister mentioned, someone else's waste is a raw material and this circular economy is very important. But there are also difficulties: the economy is weak compared to the OECD standard, and the effects of unemployment are such gloomy readings, so that we should move forward. But what can we give you then? For the least developed countries, aid is most important, and that is where the limited resources must be provided. Like Mr Biaudet, I would also like to point out that the eradication of poverty and inequality is important, the participation of women and girls and, in particular, the possibility of education for girls, the prohibition of child marriages, the improvement of mortality and also the right of women to decision-making and also to work. In order to achieve this, we too have our own soup to make that the world’s poor have
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u112	Mr President! As many have already said here, it is very important that we talk here in Parliament about a subject that is indeed vital to our entire planet. The aim of the Sustainable Development Goals is to make the world a better place for all of us, and many of the Agenda 2030 targets have already been highlighted here separately. These new UN Sustainable Development Goals are a continuum for the UN Millennium Development Goals, but now all UN Member States are involved when the Millennium Development Goals were only for developing countries. The new objectives take broad account of the diversity of development, the environment, social rights, human rights and the economy. Attention will be paid, both globally and regionally, to the sharp income and wealth gap and to the threat posed by climate change, particularly in the poorest regions of the planet. In Finland, unemployment is also alarming with global indicators and with the baseline sustainable development index red, i.e. requires prompt correction. The Minister also took a position on this and said that this will be addressed on a broad front. The fact that long-term unemployment is in a very difficult situation has become very clear during Question Time today. Another, somewhat more surprising point in Finland's position on the 2030 Agenda targets is climate action. We're going down all the time. Among the 52 countries we are the 31st, the 24th of the previous measurement period. This is very alarming, and it is also in red. Now that this climate and energy programme, launched today by the government, is in hand, we really need to look closely at whether it will go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u113	Madam President! It is very important to discuss the objectives of sustainable development, and I am genuinely sorry that there has been a small group of representatives of the same mind here. They would've wanted to see those who were gone. There is still much to be done in the world to achieve these 17 different objectives of sustainable development. But neither can we belittle the fact that very much has been accomplished. In ten years, poverty in the world has halved, infant mortality has decreased significantly and schooling, including for girls, has made significant progress. The focus of the Finnish Government on development policy is on improving the position of girls and women. I think it is very important to focus on this and, at the same time, to pay attention to education, sexual and reproductive health and also to improving the position of women in terms of political participation. Indeed, in many lands a girl is more likely to die in childbirth than to finish her school. It is for this reason that girls' education is key. We know that educated girls also marry later and only have children when they are adults. Education also gives them better pay and also learn to claim their rights. Sexual and reproductive health could be talked about for how long, but I would like to remind you through the facts that every two minutes a woman dies in childbirth because she has no access to health services, every two seconds a girl under the age of 18 marries against her will, and every four seconds a girl under the age of 18 gives birth and in many cases there are complications. We have a huge amount of work to do and give to the world in this sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u114	Madam President! It's an important topic for us here today. It is probably the case that, in all our work, we must think about sustainable development, and all the committees must also think about it and think about it in their daily work. As chairman of the Committee on the Future, at least my personal opinion is that the Committee on the Future has the capacity to act as a monitoring committee if that is what the Minister has proposed. When I am a fairly recent chairman, I have tried to get to know the previous work of the Committee on the Future and I have noticed that sustainable development has been at the heart of it. It has been said, among other things, that Finland should develop and allow sustainable development experiments, where entrepreneurship is easy and encouraging, and that the challenge may be to change the national climate of attitudes and the culture of action. We should move from careful and risk-absorbing adjustment and cutting to a little bolder and more creative start-up and new growth. At least my own opinion is that without the courage and the risks, we will not be able to change or even maintain our present standard of living and employment. This requires a number of different measures, but that work needs to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u115	Mr President! Thank you for this debate. It has been very interesting to follow, and it is great that this topic was brought to the Chamber. I would also like to thank the ministers for being able to sit here tonight and listen to the views of the representatives on this issue. It is clear that, at least in the tradition and history of my own party, things have always been thought in such a way that the state, the country, should be left to the next. Today it is spoken of through sustainable development, but somehow you would think that it would be a normal thing, that all things should be left to the next, and it is terribly important that we also talk about the responsibility and the strength of the example on a global scale, which is something that small Finland can also do for its part. It has been good to hear that there have been many talks here about the Paris climate agreement. But one thing that is quite the world's top in Finland is about governance, good governance. It is, for example, related to the extent to which our tax base is — such things that are not always remembered when talking about sustainable development. It is also the fact that the administration must function well. And I would have liked to ask the ministers if there was anything more special about this. That has also been one of Finland's priorities, along with many other important issues, but is there going to be some new means of promoting democracy that would particularly highlight good governance as part of our development policy? Secondly, I would have liked to ask about these social commitments of the Commission on Sustainable Development. They are, after all, terribly important through the introduction of a sustainable development agenda on the table of every human being. Every person can make a commitment in his or her own community on how to promote sustainable development. I would have liked to ask, Do you have any data on the extent to which this commitment to society has spread? How many municipalities, schools, communities or people have signed that commitment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u116	Mr President! The representative of Estonia said that there is a club of the same-minded. Well, I can myself sign most of what has been said in this debate, including the speech by the Estonian representative and the opening speech by Mr Paloniemi. Yesterday, the Global Group of the Parliament organised an event on climate refugees. This was also one of the themes discussed at the Marrakesh climate conference. This reminds us that, if climate change breaks out, it can, in the worst case scenario, destroy all our economic and social objectives. If we relax in climate action, we will increase the flow of refugees over the coming decades. Cutting money from climate action in developing countries, from work in developing countries for women's rights, from gender education and from family planning will also increase the flow of refugees in the future. It is estimated that over the past ten years, some 25 million people have had to leave their home country for environmental reasons. The International Food Policy Research Institute has estimated that by mid-century climate change could cause water shortages in the region of nearly 5 billion people. If one out of five of these people go away, that means one billion people, of whom tens or hundreds of millions will also be sought in Europe. In such a situation, it would be difficult to maintain peace. It must therefore be understood that mitigation of climate change is central to everything, including preventing future wars and conflicts. I believe that the Ministers of Tiilikainen and Mykkänen has actually done his best in the Government's negotiations on a climate and energy strategy. There are good things in it, as many have already said, such as the ban on coal, but, overall, I regret that it does not seize all the good opportunities and opportunities that Finland would have.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u117	Mr President! When the question was asked whether there was merely a similar mind, I would believe that I could bring up at least some new points of view. For myself, I would see work and well-being in Finland as the central theme of sustainable development and above others. We have no sustainable development without work and well-being, nor can we, in the name of sustainable development, jeopardise that work and well-being. It is not sustainable development that we create a welfare state with countless rights and then find that we cannot afford to maintain it. It must also be accepted that living and working in this north will, in principle, raise our carbon footprint compared to those countries that are further south. As such, the themes of the discussion initiative are lofty ideas and I am sure there is no one who would regard sustainable development as a bad or non-target issue as such. But this is not a new invention, for there has long been a principle which has been mentioned before that the fields and forests are left to the boys in a better condition than they had received from the fathers, and this has been an honour. The principle of sustainable development is not something new that has been invented in Kallio cafes with berets on their heads and red wine glasses on their hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u118	Mr President! In order not to forget, I would like to remind you that, during the current term of government, there have been major cuts in development cooperation. The largest cuts are made in multilateral development cooperation, around 56%, 37% in country and regional development cooperation and 43 for organisations. Emissions trading revenues are also no longer allocated to development cooperation, and this is also a very large amount, in 14 it was EUR 69 million. In any case, the objectives of sustainable development are universal and require global responsibility on our part to achieve them. I would like to ask the Minister how we can ensure the long-term sustainability and consistency of Agenda 2030's work and ensure maximum effectiveness despite these cuts. What is the way in which sustainable development objectives are being implemented now that resources have been drastically reduced? What have we had to compromise on and hold on to? It would be good to be open about this now, so that we can move on. Many people are also wondering whether the government intends to draw up a concrete plan and a timetable on how we will at some point raise those development funds to the 0.7% of GDP target there and we will also commit ourselves to implementation. I would also like an answer to this. In fact, the debate has already highlighted the fact that gender equality has its own objective in Agenda 2030 and is included in all sustainable development objectives on a cross-cutting basis. This is a very good thing, and it also includes universal access to sexual and reproductive health rights. It is really good that these are also Finland's priorities. However, how does Finland intend to concretely ensure that these targets, i.e. gender equality and sexual and reproductive health, are concretely reflected in the implementation process and will also remain over the term of government until 2030? Ensuring the long-term sustainability of these objectives over the term of government is an important objective, so that we can gradually move forward with the objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u119	Madam President! Sustainable development objectives are all interdependent. For example, food security cannot be achieved without action against poverty and climate change and gender equality without education. Many very good speeches have been made here today, particularly highlighting the role of girls and women and the importance of education. I myself would like to stress the importance of education, and in particular of literacy, which is absolutely essential for girls and women. A woman who can read has a sense of self-esteem and an appreciation of her community. Consciousness of the world around us is growing, and disease is reduced with knowledge. Readable women give birth to healthier children and are also better equipped to care for their children. They understand the importance of reading and are likely to put their own children in school. There are currently more refugees in the world than ever. In order to prevent an increase in refugees, it is important to invest in good life tools, such as literacy, in the poorest countries. I would like to ask the ministers: at what level do you set the importance of literacy in development policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u120	Madam President! Thank you to the Bureau and to the authors of the debate initiative. This is a very important topic for discussion, as many have said here. I, too, am in favour of a committee — I would like to see it as a Committee on the Future — being responsible for the further examination of this matter. However, I am concerned that at EU level these Agenda 2030 targets do not seem to be making optimal progress. On the basis of a communication from the Commission, they are not planning to make a proper implementation plan for sustainable development objectives. I believe that Finland should insist on such an implementation plan, and I hope that our government can play an active role in this, because we are also likely to be listened to on this issue. Many good speeches have been made here on the issue of overgenerational justice in relation to sustainable development. Perhaps the best example left in my mind was Mr Toivola's example of how a young person had left, almost dared to say, to fight windmills by challenging a large system for climate goals. When we consider the situation, we see that around half of the world’s population are currently under 30 years of age. At the same time, more than 40% of young people of working age in the world are unemployed or underpaid. Young people are a huge opportunity, but if their position in society is shaken at the same time that societies are in uncontrolled situations, we have a social time bomb in our hands. We have also discussed this issue in Finland, for example, in connection with unemployment among young people and the potential threat of exclusion, when we have talked about education, for example. I would like the government to consider the fairness of the generations when it makes decisions on education policy, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u121	Madam President! I would also like to thank you for this initiative in the debate, and I very much hope that a committee, which has now been tabled by the Committee on the Future, will take this opportunity. Much has been said here about the role of women and the state of the environment, and hence about the well-being of people. I would like to draw your attention to this aspect of animal protection. Here we find in paragraph 15, here in Agenda 2030, that there has been a commitment by 2020 to take important and urgent measures to prevent the loss of endangered species. We have three years here, and I have not seen any action on a global scale. This is where Mr Kiuru talked about this kind of demographic goal and perhaps agreement. We have a wide range of agreements, human rights agreements and international environmental agreements, climate agreements. Why don't we have a deal, for example, for this kind of species protection? However, in many studies animals are very emotional and experience pain and physical pain, and so on. I thought that on many occasions, if such insults are in the countries, just resented, but there is no such thing as any agreement that this country would have integrated into, to which one might appeal. In Parliament's Animal Protection Club, we have wondered whether Finland, for example, could be proactive in the Council of Europe and the Nordic countries would be thinking about this in the EU. That would be quite progressive. However, we have a very different culture: animals are no longer objects for humans. Especially when you look at this extinction of species, many species we will soon not have: elephants, lions. It is also our duty. Then I would have asked. Today, this wind power health survey was announced for renewable energy. I thank the government for that. I've had a lot of contact with these health effects and with people with symptoms. I would have asked a little about this explanation: how long is it, and when is it coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u123	Mr President! In addition to Parliament and the State, the local level plays a key role in the implementation of the Agenda at national level: citizens, municipalities, businesses, civil society. In order to commit them to this implementation, we need information and we need support. It is also particularly important to involve municipalities and also the regions of the future in this work, because there is quite a large proportion of these concrete decisions and work being done. Next spring, there's gonna be municipal parties. I would hope that the parties too will now take part in this work in municipal elections and tell the municipal election candidates about this Agenda and how important it is to implement it in the municipality and perhaps also to make implementation plans in the municipalities. Mr President! Objective 5, i.e. gender equality, is absolutely essential for the success of the Agenda as a whole. In this, Finland must be stronger. We have been a strong nation in it, and I am very proud of it, but strength will continue to be needed, because both in Eastern Europe, in the USA and in many other countries there is a setback in women's rights and in sexual and reproductive health. Sustainable development is not possible if girls and women are left behind and if families are not allowed to live healthy or able to decide on their child count. It is also a question of curbing population growth, and in particular for the sustainable development of sub-Saharan Africa, controlling population growth is an important objective, but of course it must be done in a humane way. Mr President! Development cooperation and development funding are a very important element and a tool for implementing many Agenda objectives and supporting developing countries in their implementation. I would like to ask: is there a concrete plan by the government to increase development cooperation funding to 0.7%?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u124	Mr President! One major common challenge for us in promoting sustainable development and implementing our objectives is how we ensure that we are able to commit ourselves to this activity over the parliamentary term. The role of women and girls and the promotion of equality have been raised in several speeches. After all, the role of women and girls is a priority according to our development policy report, and it is part of all sustainable development objectives. Gender equality also has its own objectives. In what way do we ensure that these priorities and their commitment are maintained even if governments change? Sustainable development if something is the kind of work in which we have to work long-term and commit ourselves to doing very long-term work. It would be interesting to hear how this aspect has been considered. As many speakers have expressed their support for the idea that the Committee on the Future of the Committee on the Committee on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy should take on this responsibility — I personally think it is important for all committees to give some consideration to these issues relating to the promotion of sustainable development — I would also ask the ministers how you feel about the idea that sustainable development should be seen more strongly in the budgetary process, for example in your own ministries, and how this idea of a sustainable development report sounds. After all, it was wonderful to have received a report on development policy this period initially at the beginning of the period and, in the same way, in the case of sustainable development, which is therefore a cross-cutting, common issue on a wider scale, it would be logical that this issue should also be brought into Parliament as a report. I'd like to ask the ministers about these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u125	Mr Toivola, Mr Kiuru, Mr Mäkelä, Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Paloniemi, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u126	Madam President! There have been extremely good speeches here, many of which are easy to agree with. One speech has said that sustainable development is not a new issue, has not been invented in Kallio today, and that is indeed true. There has also been a lot of quotes from the historical value base, which supports the thinking of sustainable development. And what is more wonderful is that we also have such a long history in this ideological thinking. I personally hope that all that history will also be included in this day and in that work for the future. The difference certainly — what has changed, what has happened in the global world — is that we are less and less able to look at ourselves as a separate island from the rest of the world or as a single country, but what all these goals are based on is that we are constantly growing as if we are dependent on each other, or if we are wondering how the population is currently moving around the world. These are questions that we must also take responsibility for, and that is how we will be part of that global world together. A lot of important questions have been raised here. I would like to support, among other things, Mrs Parviainen's view of the EU level, and indeed I would like to hear a little about it, because at the moment it seems that there are plans for implementation only for 2020, and that is, of course, far too late. So it would be very important for Finland to play an active role under this pressure too. Then, thinking about Finland’s development cooperation, I would have asked again when there has been a discussion about this kind of development cooperation law or some element, which we could better tie to what are, as it were, the main themes on which Finland’s development cooperation is based in the long term. That necessarily those goals would not be so submissive to every four-year government term. I would see that this kind of long-term will also support the objectives of this Agenda. How does the government see this, whether there is any way to bring these closer together, to its own development policy, a long-term approach that would also support Agenda 2030? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u127	Madam President! We have heard some very constructive and good speeches here. There's one thing I've been thinking about. When emphasis is placed on the position of women and girls, there really is nothing wrong with it, it is a big problem. There is certainly a great deal to be done in most countries of the world and in all countries of the world to improve this. But if you take a perspective on Finland, the life expectancy of a Finnish man is considerably shorter than that of a woman. A Finnish man is less educated than a woman, we are more prone to violent crimes, we die more often in traffic, we are more dependent on drugs, we smoke more often, our teeth are worse, and we are more vulnerable to exclusion. On one point we are ahead: we are on average getting higher wages. Well, the Finnish man as a whole is doing well, of course, when compared with the global perspective, but did this speech raise any ideas as to how the perspective of men and boys in development cooperation and sustainable development should be taken into account? I believe that in many countries there are also male minorities who have entered or pushed into a marginal or minority position, who are in a very weak position in their community.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u128	Mr President! Mr Kiuru has just presented an interesting perspective on the rights of men in this sustainable development. This was a good point of view that this brings in some way a new idea to the entrenched thinking that we have in this area. Another example of this kind of persistence, which I would like to criticise, is that Finland is saying as a mantra that we should somehow be a guide for sustainable development. In the past, the need to set a course is justified by the fact that we can afford to be such a rich nation. However, these trends have come to our fingers over time, and we have paid an unnecessarily high welfare price over the years. Example here: I come from a strong area of the forest industry itself. It was pretty dirty there in the '80s: the water was boiling in the lake, swimming there, the air smelled bad. Then, at the turn of the 1990s, paper mills made significant improvements to their systems and the water and air quality of the nearby lake Saimaa improved substantially. These were voluntary changes made by Finns and very good things then. However, when these improvements were made, this fine example of Finnish responsibility came back at us with accession to the Union and the emissions trading arrangements, when we were able to compare this post-investment state in the negotiations, not with the pre-investment state, while countries that avoided cleaning investments elsewhere in Europe were rewarded for emissions trading. Now we may have this same situation in front of us, as if we were leaving zero again. The EU is making us save more and less and more. Yes, my basic message is that we have already shouldered our greatest responsibility in this matter. In this struggle, we must be firm not to be subjected to unreasonable obligations. For example, I would like to mention this debate on how forests are regarded as a source of emissions. It simply cannot happen to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u129	Värderade Talman! In this global world, companies play a big and important role, and it is important that the rules of the game are uniform: play with open cards, the same rules of the game. The Commission is preparing a package on country-by-country reporting and, in my opinion, it is now demarcating countries which are not classified as tax havens from outside Europe. In my view, Finland has been in favour of the Commission on this issue, where the Netherlands would like all third parties to be included in this country-specific reporting. Do you have views on this and ideas on the reasons for the Finnish position? I would return to this climate issue. With regard to climate finance, the UN has been concerned that the adjustment money is in a very small part, although they should represent about half of the total funding. This relates, for example, to the climate refugee situation raised by Mr Hassi. How do you see this in Finland? How can we increase this share, and how do you see Finnfund’s position in it as a whole? After all, these projects are easily focused on measures other than these climate adjustment measures. Mr Meri raised the issue of wind power. Now that it is being studied within the government, will it be based on existing scientific studies, the outcome of which is likely to be quite clear, or will new scientific studies be commissioned to examine this matter more thoroughly? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u130	And in the middle of that, Mr. Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u131	Mr President! I do have a little longer talk. Can we go to the toilet? [President MariaLohela : 2 minutes from the location. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u134	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank all of us for this excellent debate and I would like to encourage all of us in this House. As Mr Sarkkinen said, we must take this implementation of sustainable development to the regional and local levels. I would like to say a few more words about the resource wisdom project in Jyväskylä, my home town. This is the kind of Sitra project that has been implemented there for two years because Sitra chose Jyväskylä as its trial platform. It has tried and tested various ways in which the region and its various actors could live more resource-wise, using natural resources wisely and sensibly, and even achieving economic benefits. Together with all stakeholders in society, there has been a multi-disciplinary regional approach and it has now been taken to several cities and one municipality. The final result was a road map, a long-term plan for how, for example, Jyväskylä will achieve a waste-free, emission-free and over-consumption life by 2050 at the latest. And this is not just talk: The council is committed to promoting resource wisdom in the spring of 2015, and now the wise use of resources is also one of the three strategic points of the city. The wise use of resources is integrated into the overall management of the city. It is part of the annual economic and operational clock and is always prominently involved in the budgetary process. In my opinion, this is not a very bad example, and it has been scaled and taken elsewhere. I would like these good examples, which I am sure will be found in Finland, to be carefully replicated and exported throughout the country, because that is our problem in general, that good practices, good models are not taken elsewhere, but are left to the use of a small group, as it were. That would be an excellent model, I think. What do the ministers think?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u135	Now, Minister Mykkänen, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u136	Mr President! Thank you again for the good points. One question that has often come up is this proportion of the poorest countries, the so-called LDC countries, and we are going to raise it now in the coming years, after next year, again, by directing, among other things, this investment-based funding, of which, of course, only part can be seen in that ODA calculation, but a larger part in Africa and especially in the LDC countries, and that is how it will also be seen here. It was Mr Niinistö who, in particular, put the cuts in the form of investment and then, as it were, in the form of a gift. It must be said that, in itself, this type of investment does not in any way supplant it from the gift form. Unfortunately, even if we do not have investment funding at all, it would not give any room for spending limits, because the difference is precisely that investment fund money outside the spending limits. The big change, I would say, in our overall impact on the poorest countries is also that, as we are launching the new Public Sector Investment Facility in December, it will also, unlike its previous version, target the poorest LDC countries. For example, last week, when I was in Tanzania and Kenya, it became clear that there were a lot of projects that could include water, clean energy, infrastructure, even school construction projects, where this instrument, which has 30-50% gift and the rest of the subsidised loan, could generate new investments that would then bring both jobs and the results needed and, at the same time, the involvement of Finnish companies in those projects. When Mäkelä here also called for employment, this may also have these effects for a small part of the population. In particular, Mr Kiuru asked about the prioritisation of country programmes. It's not easy for you to make violent moves. We have eight country programmes, plus that we are withdrawing from Vietnam plus that, of course, a lot of money is going to Syria and the Middle East through various arrangements. The change I have made is that we are now coming out of Zambia faster than previously planned, because we need to be able to put these pots together even a little bigger. More than EUR 10 million must be the size of the country programme in order for us to be able to invest in a few priorities and have the necessary influence in that administration. It's not an easy choice either. As I said to the officials at the time, when there is no guilt, the least innocent is chosen, and Zambia is the one who is now the first to rise to the middle income, and when restricted, this must be done. Gender Equality and Finnfund, Congressman Kiuru asked: According to Finnfund's CEO, about 30-50% is the number of women reported in Finnfund's employment projects, and in this respect, it must also be said — when there is a cause for concern here about how we can support women's position, for example through investment aid — that, in fact, the projects in which we invest, as you can see from this figure, are quite often those which then provide jobs for women in poor countries. I myself visited the largest pharmaceutical plant in East Africa a week ago with Finnfund's investment, and there have also been special care, for example, for family leave practices, and male practices have been encouraged and, of course, attempts are being made to export such practices. For justice services and the judiciary: This is something we do quite a lot in many countries through capacity building. A week ago I also visited Nairobi's largest slum, Kibera, where we have a small project to reduce violence against women, 6000 women have been reached and 600 trials have been launched with this rather small amount. True, in a certain way it was very optimistic, even though as an environment none of us would be happy to see it in itself. Education, literacy, Mr Pelkonen asked: It is perhaps one of the things I would say that if I had been a minister in the field of development policy, I would have made it even more clear to us. We are quite good at it, and in Mozambique, Ethiopia and Nepal in particular, our main country cooperation is specifically education, and in it the main indicator that we have now set up for the new three-year period of national programmes this autumn is precisely the literacy of 11-year-old girls and this figure, because I quite agree with what has been said that it is crucial for the development of society and also for the role of women in those societies. On the EU's implementation plans: Let's speed it up, but at the same time, I'd say it's important that we have some kind of division of labour. Now that the proportion of national aid and EU aid is about four to five, and I myself have wondered if it would be more reasonable for the EU to focus more clearly on such sudden humanitarian crises, for example, and then this kind of long-term would be clearer at national and UN level. If everyone does everything, it doesn't really lead to the best result either. Mr Sarkkinen referred to the Agenda work of the municipalities. I myself was launching an event in Tampere that launched an agenda for such municipalities, and there I called for, for example, the development of a bicycle network as one measure, when here in the Helsinki region, urban bikes have now clearly hit themselves through. I hope the other big cities come along. For me, the fact that we are clearly hanging it on these few priorities, the SDGs, which do not change from one electoral term to the next, will help to make an over-election commitment — to which Mr Sirén referred. Instead, the framework law
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u137	And Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u138	Mr President! I had the honour of being on behalf of Finland in adopting these Agenda 2030 objectives at the UN. I was also able to report on Finland's implementation last summer at the same forum and, of course, as Vice-President of the Commission for Sustainable Development, now looking much forward to this implementation in Finland. I thank Parliament for this good debate and some comments: In fact, every committee has an objective which is specifically within its remit, but, for example, that the Committee on the Future could be the committee that brings together, when we talk about sustainable development in the future, has received a great deal of support here. Is that the form of the annual debate or the Government's report to Parliament once in the parliamentary term? In this Finnish implementation a representative My corner asked about the scope and importance of this commitment to sustainable development. Indeed, there are 340 commitments now, but an important step in extending these commitments was, for example, that this is the first time in Finland to reduce plastic waste, reduce the use of plastic bags, implement the directive through a contract procedure where the state, the Ministry of the Environment, concluded an agreement with the trade sector, and these agreements, which individual movements, companies can join, are part of this implementation of sustainable development, social commitments. Let us see how this type of contract procedure, combined with the implementation of sustainable development, will work in the future. Mrs Mäkelä took an important point of view into account, namely that without a healthy economy it is really difficult for us to promote any of these objectives for sustainable development, and it is good to remember that. Ani few here have now slipped on the side of the opposition arrow, but a very meaningful debate has taken place overall, but if there is no such healthy economy, it is difficult to pursue individual goals. Now, Mr Mäkelä, that emissions trading system in the EU is such that the same obligations, the same things apply to companies in all countries, whether they are clean investments made last year or earlier.Now, fortunately, this is a problem you have mentioned, and forests are a sinkhole in Finland, it must also be recognised in climate policy in the EU. A few more comments: The representatives of Meri and Elomaa spoke about the protection of biodiversity and species, the protection of animals. In a few weeks' time, a UN conference on biodiversity will begin in Mexico. The point there is precisely the mainstreaming of this diversity, how diversity is taken into account and also the protection of species not only in protected areas, but also in agriculture, forest management, fisheries, tourism. This is an important step forward. In the field of animal protection, Finland is active at EU level, together with Denmark, Sweden, Holland, Germany, we have supported the establishment of such a Animal Protection Forum, which will ensure that animal protection is also carried out and not just a letter in EU policy. The commitment over the parliamentary term — that is what Mr Mykkänen has already responded to. It is good to note that there is now a programme going beyond the parliamentary term, but, of course, each government is responsible for the fact that things are moving forward in concrete terms and that implementation is taking place towards the goal. Mr Adlercreutz spoke about climate policy and this adaptation. In fact, at the Marrakesh meeting, it was precisely this adjustment that led to concrete progress. It was agreed that the adaptation fund, which has already been the case in the past, will also serve the Paris Agreement and that the adjustment fund's financial objectives were met. It is an important fund for these very least developed countries, and in this it is possible for Finland to cooperate with our partners to help those most vulnerable countries to be able to use this international fund. The representative, Mr Toivola, raised the issue of young people, and that is where we have room for improvement in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u139	The time allocated to the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u140	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 30/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Congressman Kiljunen will introduce you to this. Or is it Mr. Haatainen? Now I'm gonna ask you which one of you is going to introduce this. I have two kinds of information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u141	Mr President! — I thought the chairman would not be able to make it, but he did. — I present the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on 30/2016. In accordance with Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government Programme, the proposal is a continuation of a total of EUR 150 million in pharmaceutical compensation savings to balance central government finances. The changes that came into force in this year included a one-off refund for pharmaceutical operators and a temporary change in the pharmacy fee table. At the end of the interim austerity measures at the beginning of 2017, this proposal will leave a further EUR 134 million in pharmaceutical reimbursement savings to be made. Changes in the own contributions of insured persons were made to the extent in force for the time being. Most of the savings now being made will be made by increasing price competition for medicines, reducing drug losses and promoting rational medical treatment. A risk-sharing procedure will be put in place to promote market access for new innovative, orphan medicinal products and particularly expensive medicinal products. In addition, the special compensation scheme will be reviewed. The Committee notes that the vast majority of the proposed measures will reduce not only the cost of medicines for society but also the cost of medicines for many patients due to the fall in the price of medicines. The committee considers the legislative proposals to be justified and supports their adoption as unchanged. However, the committee believes that the impact of savings, particularly on the cost of medicines for individual groups of patients, should be carefully monitored. Mr President! The proposal has been estimated to reduce the annual reimbursement costs of medical health insurance by a total of approximately EUR 134 million. The savings will reduce the central government contribution to health insurance by around 60 million and the contribution of insured persons by around 74 million. As a result of the changes, the value of pharmaceutical sales is estimated to decrease by EUR 143 million per year, which affects all pharmaceutical operators. The largest proportion of the decrease in sales value relates to retail sales of adjunct medicinal products. The value of sales of parallel medicinal products is estimated to decrease due to the narrowing of the reference price pipeline. It is positive for pharmaceutical operators that the proposed risk-sharing model will bring a new and faster option for the controlled introduction of new medicines. The sale of parallel medicines will be boosted by the expansion of drug exchanges and the promotion of the use of biosimilars. The inclusion of parallel imports and parallel distribution products in the reference price system will benefit parallel importers and parallel distributors as their market shares increase. The revenue from central government VAT revenue and the pharmacy charge is estimated to decrease by around EUR 17 million. Of the decrease in the value of pharmaceutical sales, approximately EUR 32 million would be allocated to pharmacies, which is about 5 per cent of the pharmacy's turnover. The Committee considers the proposed savings to be justified in terms of balancing central government finances. Mr President! According to the government's proposal, non-insulin preparations are transferred from the top special reimbursement category, 100 %, to the lower special reimbursement category, 65 %. Insulin products remain in the top special reimbursement category. Changes in the replacement category of medicines used in type 2 diabetes will increase the contribution of patients. This is justified, among other things, by the fact that substitution would thus be at the same level as medicinal products used in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. The committee considers that the change in the special reimbursement category is justified in terms of the equality of the reimbursement of the various diseases, but considers that the impact of the change on the use of both diabetes medicines and income support should be monitored as soon as the law enters into force and measures taken to address any need for change should be taken. Mr President! Price competition will be promoted by narrowing the price pipeline and extending the reference price system to parallel imports. Pharmaceutical exchanges will be extended and biosimilars will be made available for exchange. The committee considers that the promotion of price competition, the expansion of pharmaceutical exchanges and the introduction of the exchangeability of biosimilars are the appropriate means of achieving savings. A very important issue was the reduction of drug losses. Support for rational medical treatment and the reduction of pharmaceutical waste are estimated to save about EUR 20 million in pharmaceutical costs. Expensive substitutes are replaced at a time by an amount equal to the treatment period of up to one month. A new batch of medicinal products would only be delivered replaced if the previously purchased batch had been used almost entirely. The Committee considers it important that, in the context of the reform, the regulation should also seek to influence the prescription of medicinal products in such a way that the time limit should take greater account not only of the effectiveness of the medicinal product but also of the cost of its use in relation to other treatment options, but also of the choice of the most favourable biological alternatives. Mr President! Finally, in addition to promoting price competition in the pharmaceutical sector, it is still necessary to reduce the unnecessary use of medicines, for example, by means of measures to reduce the over-use of medicines and the amount of pharmaceutical waste. On the other hand, some patients are poorly bound to prescribed medical treatment, which often increases the cost of treatment later. In developing medical treatment, it is necessary to take advantage of the potential of new information systems in social and health care, so that health care professionals have up-to-date information on, among other things, the patient's total medication, drug interactions and potential side effects, and the prices of medicines. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has begun to examine the current state of the pharmaceutical reimbursement system and the potential development needs. The committee considers that clarification is necessary and that the situation of low-income and long-term sick people who are heavily on drugs should also be taken into account in the investigation. Mr President! The committee's proposal for a decision is for Parliament to accept the government proposal as unchanged from 1 to 3. the draft law and the adoption of a single statement. There have also been 4 objections to this motion, one of which is a statement of opposition, and 3 rejections, which are presented separately by the various objectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u142	Mr President! With regard to the government proposal, it cannot be considered justified to reduce the substitution of medicines used to treat diabetes, other than insulin medicines, from full substitution to a substitution of 65 %. We cannot accept this part of this proposal, which is why we shall protest in this regard. The reduction in the level of substitution for antidiabetic medicinal products — fortunately not for insulin — is justified by the fact that this would be at the same level as for cardiovascular diseases, for example. However, we cannot support a reduction in the level of compensation, because the cuts that have already been made to the reimbursement of medicines have already significantly increased the customer's ownership. In practice, the surgery is also directed at the elderly, as according to the Finnish Association of Diabetes, among others, the proportion of people aged over 65 in non-insulin-using diabetics is more than half. Approximately one third are over 75 years of age, which means that the surgery would be directed specifically at people with multiple illnesses, the elderly and the low-income population. At present, there is already an accumulation of supplementary diseases, particularly in the lowest income categories, and this proposal will further increase these socio-economic health inequalities. Furthermore, taking into account the government's other austerity policy, which targets a number of cuts in basic benefits and the livelihoods of the lowest-income people, we do not consider it sensible to increase the contributions of customers. The need to assess the system of reimbursement and the grouping of diseases as a whole has also repeatedly emerged, and it would be fairer if, instead of reducing the substitution of diabetes medicines, the substitution of all diseases would be assessed at the same time and on equal grounds. And as we heard in Mr Kiljune's speech, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has set up a group of officials to assess the development needs of the pharmaceutical reimbursement system. For this reason, too, we believe that the situation in diabetic patients should not be weakened now, but should wait until that study is completed and then make the necessary proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u143	Mr President! Ensuring the correct use of medicines is the best way to reduce the cost of medicines. All measures aimed at this are always to be welcomed. Of course, there are other good proposals in this bill to reduce the cost of medicines, but the reduction in the reimbursement of diabetes medicines proposed in the bill is totally unacceptable. In practice, this surgery is targeted particularly at people with multiple diseases, older people and low incomes. This proposal will further increase socio-economic health inequalities. If medicines for diabetes are not used, the number of complications that are costly and difficult to treat will increase with certainty. On the other hand, insulin therapy, which is more expensive and much more difficult to treat, will also become more common. This draft law therefore makes no sense either in terms of health policy or in terms of the economy. This is inhumane and will lead to increased costs in a few years, and inequality will also increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u144	Mr President! The part of the government's proposal is absolutely in favour of addressing the price of medicines, particularly by increasing price competition between pharmaceutical companies. Our population is getting older and more medicines are being used, so it is easy to support such measures to control the rise in pharmaceutical costs. Then again, the savings are always unfortunate and regrettable, but I think that the committee has responded to the concerns expressed quite properly. To the Social Democrats, I can say as a comfort that the pharmacists' profession, which has been attacked from that point of view throughout the autumn, will obviously have to pay a great deal for these savings in reduced incomes, so the opposition would probably have to support this proposal as well. Mr President! Against that background, I am surprised, however, that the Left Alliance and the Greens have seen the need to reject the entire draft law on the grounds of the shortcomings it has seen. Would the good side and the impact which the committee has seen in its report on this proposal be rejected?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u145	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen presented this committee's report very well, and now I am not really talking about these changes in the reference price system or changes in the wholesale price. Indeed, these affect patients in a way that reduces the cost of drugs. Nor do I say many words about this one - time amount of medicine being replaced that comes with expensive drugs. These expensive medicines are such that they cost between 800 and 1000 euros a month, and these will not touch any of the most common medicines. This is also justified by the fact that this reduces the risk of drug loss if the patient does not agree with this medicine. Instead, I would be happy to speak a word about these antidiabetic drugs, which now change their substitutability. Today, there are effective and good modern antidiabetics, which are indeed much more effective and, as it were, more preventative because of many life changes than so-called old-fashioned antidiabetics. There is a great risk that this change will shift medicines to medicines that are more old-fashioned. However, it is possible and even likely that these new and improved antidiabetics will also be somewhat cheaper as a result of this change. On the other hand, I am not afraid of an increase in insulin therapy because of these things. Insulin is not prescribed by the patient but by the doctor. However, it is a terrible thing that this committee's report contains a statement that it is precisely the consumption of these medicines for diabetes and the use of income support that will now be immediately followed up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u146	Mr President! In fact, there are only two small things related to this whole, how reimbursements of medicines and the needs of those who need them meet. Often that problem comes in January. The fact that the ceiling remains on that side is a very good thing, but if there are more people in the family who use expensive drugs, then January is problematic, because then the initial responsibilities will come, then the exclusivity of the medicines will come, and these have risen. In the case of many families, it creates a situation in which we do not manage as it were in the early part of the year, even if we do not survive the whole year, and I therefore believe that we should consider ways of measuring the costs of these multi-sick and people who are facing them. Another issue then related, for example, to biocidal products used in rheumatic treatment: It would be important to note that it is a good thing that this overall reform actually makes them cheaper and, in a sense, it certainly brings savings and improvements to the situation, but the price cannot be the only way to prescribe the medicine, because there are individual differences here, because there is no improvement in the rim but it is being treated with medicines. It is then important that this particular feature is taken into account when this law is being implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u147	Mr President! In fact, there is only one issue that I will address, namely this diabetes treatment. We in the committee, in consultation with experts, made it clear first of all that diabetes is a highly hereditary disease but also involves various aspects of lifestyle, but it is precisely because of this geneticity that there are groups of people who are at risk of this disease. It was found that untreated diabetes is many times more expensive for society, and it is precisely because of these additional diseases. There is a risk that if a person does not commit to or for some reason this diabetes is not treated, he or she will suffer from coronary and vascular disease, he or she may lose sight, be blinded, develop kidney problems that cause him to undergo dialysis, and then the total cost of these diseases will be many times higher than what this saving on diabetes medication is trying to get. That is why it is absolutely important and I would like to see the statement that has now been made on the part of the Social Democrats, which takes account of the mandate given by this regulation, taken seriously and carried out an overall impact assessment, that what this genuinely means if diabetes is not treated in the best possible way and what this untreated diabetes really causes for society. No such cost statements have been made, which has been truly regrettable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u148	Mr President! We Social Democrats consider it important that these pharmaceutical costs can be contained and, once we have been in government responsibility, we have also sought these solutions in cooperation with the various actors involved. After all, the aim must be that the cost burden for the consumer, for the person, for the patient should be as low as possible in order not to make it impossible to obtain medicines. Mr Filatov's idea that these roofing systems should also be considered in a new way should be supported, and it would be worth clarifying them in the Ministry. I also think it is important that this further work is still being carried out. This is one part of this now that the government has brought. However, it is regrettable that this is now a reduction in this level of compensation for diabetes medicines, because it affects those with a lot of people. I am sure that the ideas of the members of the committee were quite similar to those of our proposal, since then the committee adopted this joint position on this follow-up effort in relation to diabetes medicines. It does, however, indicate that many members of the committee with very strong expertise at this point had to wonder whether the government's proposal was behind it or whether it might be in line with its own expertise. It is a good thing that this is being followed up, but we Social Democrats would not have started to reduce this level of compensation for diabetes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u149	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 29/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. And now, Mr Haatainen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u150	Mr President! This is a government proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act and this proposal proposes to compensate employers for the costs of parenting for the family leave of a female worker with a lump sum of EUR 2500. The aid would be proposed to employers who pay wages for at least one month during the maternity allowance period on the basis of a contract of employment or contract of employment. It is also required that the employment or service relationship has lasted at least 3 months before the start of the maternity allowance period and is based on a contract of employment for at least one year. In addition, at the beginning of the maternity allowance period, working time must be at least 80% of the full-time worker's regular working time, and this can also be paid to the employer of the adoptive mother under similar conditions. The Act would enter into force on 1 April 2017. We have also received the opinion of the Committee on Labour. After hearings, the committee states in its explanatory statement that, in particular, we stress that the aim of this reform is, above all, to compensate employers for the burden of paying for parenthood, but this reform does not aim at a more balanced distribution of parental leave between parents, which, in the view of the committee, is a necessary objective for other legislation to promote equal employment conditions for women. The committee noted that this burden of payment for employers in various sectors is different depending on the level of employment or collective agreements in the sector. Therefore, it is not easy to determine exactly the right amount for this compensation. This proposal has resulted in a lump sum of EUR 2500 to compensate for the costs incurred by the employer for sick leave during pregnancy, maternity leave and the cost of child care leave for the sick child. The committee also notes that the obligation to pay for these holiday allowances or the salary paid during the period of care for the sick child may not be imposed on the same employer as the compensation paid if the mother's employment relationship does not continue after parental leave for the same employer. The Committee considers that support is particularly important for small businesses in the service sector, which employ a large number of women of childbearing age, and for whom the burden of payment on the cost of maternity is greater than for male-dominated sectors. According to the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, the return to the service of the same employer as a condition for receiving compensation would better contribute to the creation of permanent and continuous employment relationships between women than proposed. The committee also points out that the employers of women working part-time will not receive compensation because the law applies only to workers whose working time is at least 80% of the full-time working time in the sector. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore believes that these concerns regarding the time-limits and part-time employment of young women are justified, but the Committee nevertheless considers it important that, despite the shortcomings of the draft law, the reform is now progressing towards equalising the costs of family leave for employers in the male and female sectors. It has been estimated that some 30,000 employers would receive compensation and that the cost would be around EUR 75 million. The additional funding required by this proposal would only be paid by employers and therefore the employer’s health insurance contribution must be increased by 0.06 percentage points, with a corresponding increase of 0.1 percentage points starting from 2018. Finally, the committee notes that in Finland the majority of parental leave is still used by women and, although paternity leave has increased, the proportion of fathers taking parental leave is still very low. This fact has a very strong impact not only on the employment of women but also on the daily lives of families. A more even distribution of family leave between men and women would improve the position of women in the labour market. At the same time, it would strengthen the father’s participation in the care and upbringing of the child in early childhood. The committee feels that it is appropriate to assess the need for reform of the family leave system. Mr President! The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is that Parliament adopt the bill contained in the Government proposal 163/2016 without amendment. In this context, the committee voted on the statement and one objection has been raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u151	Mr President! I would like to present a joint protest from the Socialists, the Left and the Greens. Mr President! The Government proposes to equalise the costs of family leave between employers of women and men by paying a lump sum of EUR 2500 to employers of female workers who pay a salary of at least one month during the maternity allowance period, with working hours of at least 80% of the full-time worker's regular working hours. The Government aims to promote the employment and equal treatment of women of childbearing age in the labour market while at the same time improving the employment and growth of women-dominated enterprises. The Government’s objectives are commendable, but the proposed method does not seem to be very effective in responding to the objectives, as has been clearly demonstrated in the expert consultation. This has also been emphasised in the committee's report: this proposal seeks mainly to offset the burden of payment between employers in the male and female sectors. Mr President! The family leave system requires an overall reform. The labour market position of women can be improved and care responsibilities between parents can be shared more evenly, primarily through the development of a family leave system. The need to develop and reform the family leave system has been highlighted in the topical debate. The following aspects and development ideas have emerged in the discussions. In their current form, family leave does not respond to the needs of changed working life or diverse families, nor does it sufficiently support the participation of fathers in parenting. Family leave should therefore be made more flexible in order to improve family welfare and employment. It has been suggested that the responsibility of fathers to care for young children could be improved, for example by extending the payment period for earnings-related parental allowance. Longer parental leave would attract more fathers to stay at home. The quota-related share of earnings-related leave for fathers should be longer than at present, as should the share of free distribution between parents. The earnings-related share can now only be distributed until the child is two years old, but the payment period could be extended and extended even until school years, as is currently the case in Sweden. It has also been considered necessary to have parents at home at the same time as the baby. Today, this is only possible for 18 days. This too should be extended. As the family leave system forms a whole, it would also be necessary to consider the role of home care support in the context of the reform. The so-called SAK model, which has received support, extends income-related support and, accordingly, reduces home care support. This would increase equality in working life, strengthen the right of children to early childhood education and increase flexibility. According to different estimates, home care support cannot be intervened as an individual measure, but rather as part of the overall reform. It is also necessary to develop the flexible care allowance introduced during the last government term in order to make the return to work more flexible and to avoid too long day-care days for young children. Flexible care allowance supports the possibility of part-time work, in which case a mother or father can work 30 hours a week or less and thus spend more time caring for his child under the age of three. It has been proposed to increase the use of flexible care allowance by developing both the level of benefit and the attitudes of working life. In addition to the flexible care allowance, the introduction of an hourly early childhood education fee in municipalities should be developed to better reflect the amount of care provided. Compared to other Nordic countries, the proportion of Finnish children participating in early childhood education is low; only one in two years of age participates in early childhood education. Early childhood education has undeniable positive effects on the child’s future development. Early childhood education should be seen more strongly as part of the child’s right. It is good if some of the changes in the debate can be implemented cost-neutrally. However, socially important family leave reform must not be implemented as a savings project, but primarily as an investment in the well-being of families and the future of children. We encourage the government to address these ideas and to undertake a reform of the family leave system. We object to this at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u152	Mr President! With this proposal, the government is indeed proposing to compensate employers for the costs of family leave by paying a lump sum of EUR 2500 to employers of female workers. This is, of course, a good thing, but it is, of course, primarily promoting equality between these employers. But the government has very good objectives, namely to promote the employment of women of childbearing age and equal treatment in the labour market, while at the same time promoting the employment and growth of women-dominated enterprises. These are indeed worthwhile objectives, but many expert hearings in the committee have pointed out that this method may not be very good, but rather, as Mr Kiljunen said, it is indeed necessary, as Mr Kiljunen said, to reform the family leave system in such a way as to improve the labour market position of women and to share care responsibilities among parents more evenly, and indeed it is the whole family leave system that needs to be reformed. Many times it has been pointed out that, in their present form, family leave does not meet the needs of changed working lives or diverse families, nor does it sufficiently support the participation of fathers in parenting. This is a major problem for us. It would be good, therefore, to make family leave more flexible in order to improve family welfare and employment. In particular, the responsibility of fathers to care for young children could be improved, for example, if the payment period for earnings-related parental allowance were to be extended and then it would be tempting for fathers to stay more at home, and also for such fathers the share of quotas could be longer. But, indeed, the family leave system needs an overall reform, and I hope that the government will do so in order to give families more flexibility in organising care and improving well-being and then improving the labour market position of women.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u153	Mr President! The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities issued an opinion on this draft law and, on the basis of the experts we have heard, this bill does not meet the objectives set for it, and therefore the representatives of the Sd and the Left Left Left Alliance have left the committee with a different opinion. Mr President! Equalisation of the costs of parenthood is a very important and desirable objective, but this model is inappropriate to achieve this objective. A lump sum of EUR 2500 for all employers of full-time mothers strengthens mainly the perception that the responsibility for the care of children lies with mothers. If the total amount of this money had also been used to extend paternity leave, it would have been possible to extend paternity leave for 21 days. The entire system of family leave must be reformed so that parental leave is more evenly distributed between fathers and mothers. This is the most effective way of improving the labour market position of women and preventing additional employer-specific costs for employers of women-dominated jobs. In our disagreement with the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, we stress that the government's proposal should have been corrected at least to the extent that the requirement for a lump sum would be for the mother to return to work for the same employer after the parental allowance period. Now the law doesn't even require this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u154	Mr President! In order to promote equal treatment and employment for women, the Government proposes that the costs of parenting for employers of the female worker's family leave be offset by a lump sum of EUR 2500. It is extremely commendable that the costs of parenting should be reimbursed specifically to the employer, who nevertheless takes the risk of hiring an employee and in practice takes decisions on this issue. And it must be seen as a particularly good thing that the proposal encourages women to be employed in full-time employment rather than in these short-term and shredded jobs. However, once the opposition has raised this objection in committee, it does seem to me a little bit that the matter has been applied for. When you don't make up an objection, we'll figure it out next to it. One good government proposal and idea will begin the embrace of worlds and the overall reform of family leave. If anything, it's politics. This reminds me of the taste of putting out a little misfire: the house is burned down and it is misfired when it is turned off from another corner when it should have started from another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u155	Mr. Speaker! Mr Haatainen, the chairman of the committee, presented this committee's report very well. However, I would like to read the first sentence of this committee's report here: 'The Committee very much welcomes the fact that the government is proposing to compensate employers for the cost of parenting.' Mr. Speaker! This one-off payment of EUR 2500 is particularly important for small entrepreneurs in the service sector, which employs a large number of young women. But there is one shortcoming which, unfortunately, could not be remedied in the context of this draft law: a female entrepreneur who himself is on family leave does not in any way apply, and it would also be important for them to receive some kind of compensation. Mr. Speaker! This compensation is undeniably a fool-looking one, and it complicates this health insurance system, which has been fairly clear and insurance-based to date. But perhaps this can be seen as some kind of head opening, while this contributes to some degree to equality between women and men in working life. If, and in the future, the need for change in family leave is being clarified, then this too will certainly come up and be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u156	Mr President! I've had the pleasure of baking this bread for four years for a living, so I could talk about this subject for two weeks, but I'm trying to control myself just for the rest of you. We all know that there are many problems with the freedom of parenting. One of the main problems is that more than 90% of those who are free from parenting are still held for mothers, which is, unfortunately, that fathers do not participate very much in the freeness of parenting, even if there are certainly wishes and desires. The second problem is that the current system, in which a large part of the costs will be borne by employers of mothers after Kela reimbursements, is causing a situation where young women are not hired. They are not employed as easily as young men who do not carry this baby risk with them in the same way. This can be seen, for example, in Akava’s report, according to which 36 per cent of women under the age of 35 have been employed in temporary work, only 21 per cent of men trained in the same age group. Women are not dared to be hired in the fear that the cost of parenting will be borne. And the third problem is that many young women have to think about whether or not to have children, in the hope of a job, and it is visible throughout the country. We have had the average age of first-born births up close to 29 years, and Finland will not last. We need children, especially if we want pensioners for ourselves. In Sweden, this situation is very different. Sweden has started to resolve this issue in two ways. Firstly, in such a way that the parental leave is divided according to a model of about 5+5+5. That's 5 months for Mom, 5 months for Dad and 5 months for sharing between both parents. And the other thing is that in Sweden many of the costs will be reimbursed to the employer in full, i.e. to the employers whose workers have children. Examples of this include: For example, care costs for a child who has suddenly fallen ill in Finland are paid by employers themselves, we too may have every parent for four days in the case of each child's illness at home on full pay, according to the most common collective agreements — an important remark: according to the most common collective agreements. In Sweden, these absenteeisms are 100% reimbursed to employers. The second thing is that in Finland, although we live in 2016, absences due to pregnancy are not even recognised or recognised. The last time I read the Government's Annual Report of 14, such a thing as absences due to pregnancy does not exist, although every woman who gave birth to children knows that these absences occur. It is clear that they do not come from eight to four women in the interior, but they usually produce much more, for example, heavy three - shift jobs, janitors who are standing up, women in the building industry, and so on. I don't know a single woman in this country who wouldn't admit that she's not pregnant. In Sweden, absences due to pregnancy are recognised and recognised and are also reimbursed to the employer. In our case, the absences caused by pregnancy go exactly the same way as seasonal flu and hand-cutting, which means that the employer pays for the first 10 days and then Kela starts to pay compensation. The differences between Finland and Sweden are not due to the fact that another country is good and another country is bad. These differences are mainly due to the fact that we and Sweden have started to solve these problems at completely different ends. In Sweden, years ago, these problems have been solved by legislation. In Finland, on the other hand, we have solved these by means of collective agreements, and that is why we now have perhaps 250 collective agreements, all of which talk a little differently. The examples I am raising are most commonly spoken of in collective agreements, but we have very different practices, which at least does not make it easier for the legislator to try to form a common practice on matters that have been agreed in very different ways in different collective agreements. And as you know, when legislation tries to intervene and intervene in the matters agreed in collective agreements, it means that if we look at it in any way from the employer's point of view, employees' organisations will raise the matter up and demand some rights for themselves, and if we raise matters from the employee's point of view, employers will demand some things and benefits for themselves. So the solutions are not easy. It is clear that, when we talk about the EUR 2500 baby money, it is of enormous importance, especially for small, female-dominated companies, and I claim that the less the company employs and the more female-dominated it is, the more important it is. I can give you an example of an attempt at physical therapy by ten people who were so lucky or so happy that eight workers were on baby leave at the same time. A well-preserved company went bankrupt. Not because there were no customers, but because no entrepreneur is able to prepare for such unexpected, sudden and high costs with any calculation model. And it is worth remembering that when we are always arguing about whose interests we are pursuing, who pays the bill, ultimately the workers are paying the bill here too. The biggest bill is paid by women who are not employed, and the highest fee is paid by employers who, despite everything, employ women. Is that fair? No, it's not. Is there a need for global reform? Well, I'm sure they do. I would like to say to Mr Mäkelä, when you see the taste of politics in this opposition activity, that unfortunately, for example, the experts we have heard in the Committee on Labour were so critical of this issue that I personally feel that I am a politician when I am speaking on behalf of this EUR 2500 baby money. No expert — no expert — considered this to be the right solution. We had two associations of entrepreneurs who thought this might be an ingested solution but hoped for an overall solution. Instead, all the other experts felt that this money should be spent on something else and more rationally, as has been suggested here. When we talk about an overall solution to the liberals of parenthood, the SAK model is a good basis, but it also has its own problems. What is good about it is that the liberals of parenthood should be more flexible, providing support for each family at different stages of life. But it does not take sufficient account of the needs of families whose parents are not involved in working life. It is very understandable that SAK is drawing up its model from the workers' point of view, but in a situation where we have more than 600,000 people of working age who are capable of working outside the labour market, we need a model that also takes into account them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u157	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Järvinen, when he compared this Finnish financial system with Sweden, that both in Sweden and in the majority of the countries of the European Union, around 17 countries in the European Union, these costs of family leave are, as a general rule, covered by employers' contributions and, in Sweden, in practice, this means that employees do not participate in it, but then that the additional funding needed is covered by tax resources. In that respect, this Swedish model is different from the Finnish model; In Finland, however, both employees and employers share these costs. I would then respond to Mr Mäkelä's questions and critical statements when he said that we would only object if we did not want to. Just as Mr Järvinen said, so did almost all the experts in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, except for the business women, if that is the case, who felt that this was a good idea but that the proposal was wrong. It was justified, for example, by the fact that this does not contribute to a more even distribution of family leave and that it does not support women who work less than 80% of their working time, for example in part-time work and commerce, in the hotel and nutrition sectors. In this respect, they are the only ones affected by this. women in full-time employment who are in permanent employment. This isn't... - I'm sorry, President, I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u160	Mr President! There was an interesting detail in Mr Järvinen's speech that I did not quite understand. It emerged that experts and various organisations would not have been enthusiastic about this proposal, but then, in practical business there, especially in small women-dominated companies, this reform would be considered to be quite effective in practice. So would that wisdom be found there too, not in ivory towers in Hakaniemi? Could this be the case? However, we must now marvel at the enlightenment of the Social Democrats during this period in the opposition, when there is so much to improve and correct in terms of family leave and the distribution of them. However, there have been decades in the government, the previous government had the place of the Minister for Labour, and these things were not changed at the time. Now we are talking as if the whole working life and the problems of equality were invented in connection with this proposal in these committees, which sounds rather unusual. As far as family leave is concerned in general terms — there has been a great deal of talk about paternity here — it would of course be desirable for there to be others here in the Chamber with experience in this matter other than the signature. That does not seem to be the case at the moment. In other words, the debate is very focused and I would like to be able to get the perspective of the fathers involved. As far as I am concerned, I am strongly opposed to compulsory outside-family control of how they should live their lives. Wisdom in these matters is in the family, and as has been said, this government will not interfere in the support of home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u161	Mr President! Sorry I'm late for the last speech. I don't like my manners, but it was a big deal. It could be said that it will certainly also contribute to this issue, which we are now dealing with, and that the intention itself was good. To the previous speaker's criticism of the Social Democrats, I would like to point out that last season, paternity leave was extended, which is considered to be one of the best ways of achieving a more even distribution of care responsibilities: in the case of money earmarked for fathers, fathers spend more of that freedom, and it follows that this labour market situation, which is in charge of care to the detriment of women, will be reduced. In addition, flexible care allowance was provided, the idea of which is precisely to better combine work and family life and to involve men in these care and care costs, that is to say that both parents can work on a reduced working day or part-time job and then take care of a child, and this also actually equalises the costs between male and female-dominated sectors. That these are the measures that have been taken. If we look at the current system or say the system before this law comes into force, we will now be reimbursed some 70% of the costs to the employer. And that too, by the way, is a model that the Social Democrats have built up quite well — and there is in fact a former minister who has been doing and promoting it, that is, Tuula Haatainen. That there are these things, and not just speeches, but the world will never be finished in one parliamentary term. But in connection with this performance: After all, the intention is extremely good, but there are no easy answers to the complex problems, both here and in many other areas, and it has now fallen short of finding an easy answer to the complex problem. It is quite understandable that individual companies are happy to receive money from a particular purpose without having any obligations, as it were, in order to make the impact that money is intended to have. In the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, when this was discussed and we heard experts, as Mr Järvinen said, this criticism by the experts was devastating. If the experts had been allowed to decide, they would have rejected this entire bill. However, despite this criticism, we ended up supporting this law under certain conditions, because it is better than nothing at all and we know that this money would not have been used differently by this government, which could have been better for this objective, for example by extending paternity leave. This money could have extended paternity leave by 21 days, which would have resulted in a more even distribution of this family responsibility, thereby improving the labour market position of women and the difference between male and female employers. But, in fact, the main problem with this model is that the employer will receive this compensation even if the mother never returns to the employer’s service. So even if the employer does not incur the cost of caring for the sick child and many of the things that we are talking about here, he will still receive that compensation. And then, on the other hand, this automatically sub-compensates the employer of a mother who gets worse luck and whose employee, for example, is on maternity leave and then on parental leave and perhaps even on home care support, and at some point returns to work and either gets more sickness before she is on maternity leave or then has a sick child who has to spend a lot of time away from work. Some employers who pay a small salary receive overcompensation, and those who pay a higher salary than this compensation receive a sub-compensation for what happens to their hands. In general, it would be reasonable to compensate, as it were, for the right costs, for what is being incurred, and not just for such a general lump sum in general. However, despite this criticism, this law is not worth it, because it may be to support entrepreneurship, perhaps for some other purposes money for women-dominated industries. But, yes, Finland needs a reform of the family leave, and I find it sad that in committee, for example, we could not demand an overall reform of family leave, but ended up with strange squirms, which then stated that it might be necessary or perhaps not necessary. I think that anyone who understands the labour market at all knows that it is indeed necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u162	Mr President! It has been pointed out in many speeches that it is a good thing to start with a model. It is certainly not perfect to compensate for the cost of parenting, but I also think that this is better than doing nothing about it. It is extremely important that the labour market position of young women of childbearing age can be improved and, on the other hand, that the cost burden of women-dominated businesses should be eased in this way. I also believe that it is basically a question of the pay gap between men and women and why these costs will then be higher in sectors dominated by women, because women are still more susceptible to caring for children at home. Of course, it is also quite clear in many people that this is what they want to do. But when there are all models that go from outside to dictate that a certain period of family leave belongs to the father of the family, to a certain mother, and these are being directed from the outside, I do not like that and I do not see it as the best possible solution to this issue, but rather to address the very heart of the matter, namely the fact that the pay gap between men and women is behind it, and therefore the real, genuine, right choice of families is narrower. The Swedish model has been mentioned here, and it is of course good to remember that in our Finnish model both employers, employees and the public sector are involved in these costs — perhaps you could say in some way the applied Swedish model, i.e. in the case of employers there would be such a common pool, in which all employers would participate, and then there would be a sharing of these costs. In Sweden, however, the private and public sides are not in the same type of insurance model. Perhaps it would then be what we in Finland would be in favour of developing this model of our own.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u163	Mr President! I listened here to the speech from the back of the Chamber, which implied that this was as if it were the first reform to compensate for these employers' costs. When I was in the Board of Directors, the first government of Vanhanen, this matter was very much discussed and clarified: a full study of this was carried out, the Swedish model was also examined and compared with what is the Finnish model. A decision was reached to increase maternity allowance to 90 per cent, i.e. now it will be paid to the employer for a couple of months if he then gives it three months' paid leave in TES. Then sickness allowance, i.e. maternity allowance and parental allowance, comes and can be distributed to the father. Now, of course, there would have been such a cheaper model that the 90% compensation would have been extended over the entire three months. But when this reform was carried out when I was a minister, it had a big impact on the labour market, because then women in the service sector, PAM and other sectors, women and especially women of childbearing age, were included and paid for 3 months full wages that they had never received before. It therefore encouraged employers to do so also in these agreements. But in Finland these are negotiated with financiers, and it is important that employees and employers are involved. Clearness of the system would now be needed and urgently needed to achieve a clearer system and encourage fathers to keep these free.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u164	Mr President! Just as Mr Filatov said, 70% of their legal expenses are already being reimbursed for the freedom of parenting. However, it should be noted that according to the most common collective agreements, the mother is paid full wages for the first 3 months, and this 30% difference in salary is entirely paid by the employer. Mr Kiljunen, in my own speech I did not say a word about how the money is collected in Sweden. In Sweden, I said that employers, employers whose employees are entitled to children, will receive 100% compensation for expenses such as the absence of pregnancy or the care costs of a child under 10 years of age who has suddenly fallen ill. In other words, they will be replaced jointly by the companies whose workers have children. When you say — and I know that a THL researcher also says — that the problems do not pile up in small businesses, it is quite clear that there is no accumulation of pregnancy in small companies, but the consequences will accumulate. If an employer has one employee, it is clear that when that worker is pregnant and parenting is free, it is absolutely fatal for the company. However, if the company has 100 employees and even if 10 are pregnant at the same time or on parental leave, the employer is somehow still able to smudge. Last but not least, there has been talk here of indirect costs, i.e. recruitment and salary costs caused by a substitute. I hope that the debate on the reimbursement of these costs will be put to an end, because no one in this country — even business associations — will even demand that they be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u165	Mr President! I myself have heard from entrepreneurs that, in fact, the amount that will be paid by the entrepreneur for the sake of maternity is about 2500 to 3,000, and if this cost is now being reimbursed, it is obvious that it is an act of equality. After all, this 2500 to 3000 does not include the care costs of a sick child, which, for example, are often calculated by female entrepreneurs. In other words, equality is increasing, and I am sorry that I think this proposal has been criticised a little too much. There's a lot of good here. But we should now keep those oatmeals and billets separate and understand that the purpose of this presentation is another thing, that the smoother sharing of care responsibilities is then its own Mass and it is its own whole. I understand that this money could not have been used for it, because this is a little different money. In other words, the family leave system needs an overall reform, it is its own whole, and I would like to at least warmly encourage the government to do so, but let us not overdo this, either, when this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u166	Mr President! As has been clearly stated here, neither the two committees, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, nor the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities actually supported this bill. Particularly interesting was the fact that even business associations did not see this proposal as good when they thought it would then be supported. Some good features were seen, but business associations too would have liked to see a solution to this problem other than what the government is now proposing. In the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities there was a fairly uniform view that the overall reform of the family leave system is necessary, as such easy and individual solutions will not remove the basic problem. I do think that the basic problem is that parental leave is not evenly distributed to fathers and mothers, and that is something that needs to be worked on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u167	Mr President! Mr Filatov pointed out the few good deeds of the previous government when he spoke of the clarification of the system of paternity leave. My own experience in working life is based on both systems, i.e. old paternity leave and new ones, and it is quite clear to everyone who has experienced these, that the new system is better, clearer and more flexible for all possible purposes, even for seeking its support itself. Now, however, this policy, which I criticise in this matter, is reflected in the fact that these changes, which we are talking about in the name of equality between women, were not made during the last period, when both the SDP and the recent withdrawals in the area of family leave were in the government and would have had all the power to do so. Why are we talking about them now and not last season?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u168	Mr President! Representative to Mäkelä: It was the father quotas that were specifically increased last season, which is the way all the experts recommended in this situation. I don't think it's a good idea to mess with your predecessor before you take the mirror. But for a few things: I heard Mr. Eloranta said that according to the Entrepreneurs, the cost of free parenting to the mother is about 2,500. Of course, these costs vary very much depending on the mother’s salary, the number of sick absences, whether her children are sick or not, and so on. The costs are very stretchy and flexible, but Entrepreneurship women have calculated that, for example, the average Finnish salary, which is about EUR 3300, may average between EUR 17,000 and EUR 18000. I know there are question marks in it, but it is also important that we go to Finland to find out how much we are away because of pregnancies, for example. That is the reason why Parliament's women's network has now taken the initiative to actually find out in Finland what the absences of pregnant women are caused by the flu or a break in the arm and which actually occur as a result of pregnancy. Sweden has achieved a more equal responsibility for care. There fathers hold about 25 percent of the freedom of parenting and have two factors: quotas on the one hand, and jointly reimbursed expenses on the other, which cause employers to encourage fathers to remain free from parenting. But, as I said, this is a good step, but it still complicates the system, and that is why we hope and expect global reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u169	Mr President! Perhaps it is difficult to understand from the logic of the Finns on which they live that improving the position of fathers can improve the position of mothers, and increasing paternity leave is one of the tools for improving the labour market position of women. That is why it was an act of equality, both from the perspective of women and from the perspective of men. The second, which allows shared care, is this flexible care allowance, and it was actually, one could say, almost revolutionary thought in the sense that when many of us parents would prefer to work part-time or a reduced working day, but it is not economically possible, Minister Huovinen, who was then Minister of Social Affairs and Health, did a very good job in bringing this matter forward. So, yeah, they did those things last season. But I personally think that, in order to compensate for the costs, perhaps we should go on looking for a solution on the basis of what we have, and extend the criteria for compensation to which Mr Järvinen referred here, the costs which we do not now recognise as a result of motherhood and the costs which are then not compensated by this current system. In other words, by expanding the compensation base and increasing the cost level, we would have a more cost-effective model that would be more fair to the various jobs and employers. One thing I would like to say, which I believe is a casting error in this law, relates to this allowance for the adoptive mother. Motherhood is compensated precisely because it is a biological trait and results in certain things, but the adoptive father and adoptive mother are in fact quite the same line. They may either have the care responsibility because rarely infants are adopted and, if adopted, a mother who has not given birth to a biological child will not be breast - fed either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u170	Mr President! I really wanted to take the floor again to remind you of this point, which was raised by Mr Järvinen. Here, the women's network in Parliament collected names for an initiative to see how many of these absences due to pregnancy are recorded, so that we can find out better what they are actually due to pregnancy and what they are perhaps related to some other issues, the illness. Then, in general, this Finnish system: When there are indeed these contributors, there is the employer, the employee itself and also the public sector, and then on the other hand, our system is divided into several pieces, i.e. there is a maternity leave period for the birth mother, then there is a parental leave period in which this parental responsibility can be shared, and then this home care allowance has made it possible for us to keep the child at home longer and parents to take part in this child care. I remember when European legislation was introduced into the European Parliament to make such a so-called directive on the protection of pregnancy, in which the idea was that we would like such a Nordic model, and that is what many countries in Eastern Europe saw as a dream that it would be desired. But the serious mistake was that the model was left entirely paid and paid for by the employer as a whole. It was quite clear that it was working with the Council, and that is why there was no progress there. In that sense, it must be said, as Swedish colleagues then said, that this is one of the things that belongs to the Member States, that we have such different historical backgrounds, and if we are going to take a single model across Europe, then it will not be a single thing, because these social security systems, basically, on the basis of their contributions and others, are so national. We certainly need to think about how to improve this model of ours. As Christian Democrats, we do not want to compromise on home care, but instead we need greater flexibility for these earnings-related frees, because working life too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u171	With regard to Mr Järvinen's speech, I would like to make it clear that when I spoke about this 2500 to 3000, these are precisely the costs that come directly in connection with maternity leave and do not include, among other things, the costs of caring for a sick child or the sick leave that may be extra-ordinary in relation to pregnancy. It is therefore a question of what remains to be reimbursed by the entrepreneur after he has received compensation for other costs. As Mr Kiljunen said again in his first speech, so in the first place, when these problems of having a child had been explained to the entrepreneur, those expenses were, as I recall, only 4 or 3, and the most important thing there was the trouble of recruiting the substitute and teaching, teaching and such. The cost of this was not at the top of the list. Then it also became clear in the expert consultation that far from all entrepreneurs even applied for compensation. That there's a lot going on here. But, indeed, that overall reform of the family leave system is needed and hopefully will be brought here during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u172	Mr President! The cost of parental leave also varies very much from very small to very large sums, depending on the amount of the mother’s salary, how long she is absent — not all mothers even take maternity leave in full — and also very much depending on the collective agreement under which mothers work. In other words, if they have these most commonly used collective agreements, the amounts will easily increase when entrepreneurs pay this 30% difference for the first 3 months. On the other hand, if the collective agreement is such that it does not have to be paid, the amounts will be lower. That makes it difficult to estimate any exact amount. Of course, there are general calculations of this too. Mr Filatov gave a good speech on the problems of this solution and on the other hand the benefits of this solution. We are behind this proposal, despite the fact that there are quite a number of ways to explain why this particular solution has been chosen instead of all other solutions. Of course, it is desirable that, in future and in the future, the cost of parenting should not be paid on the basis of assumptions but genuinely on the basis of the costs incurred by pregnant women and mothers receiving babies in this country. Then we will certainly have more children in the country, on the one hand, and a significant improvement in the labour market position of young women on the other.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u173	Mr President! The employer has the view that working is always market-oriented, that the world as dictates these conditions. It is not about equality, it is only about whether work is worthwhile. For every employer an employee is an investment, be it a man or a woman. Now that we are going to the labour market to look for a woman, for example, who is of childbearing age, surely it is a question of that period of pregnancy. Yeah, it's one big part of doing a job if we start on vacation. I'm not saying if it's good or bad, but it's a cost issue, and we have to get to grips with this. I'm sure there are a lot of people here with a smarter head than me, but at least I've seen a lot of times that when you're a man or a woman in that labour market, that pregnancy is one element, it's a deterrent. Women are many times — at least in the sector where I have been — much more productive, but this is the kind of trap that is being dropped into, and it must now be attempted to repair the government and the government in such a way that these jobs are created. The employer is not in that market to have work done, but to make a profit, and that is how work is created.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u174	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 10/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u175	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Employment Contracts Act, the Maritime Contracts Act and the Act on Public Employment and Business Services. There are actually three things here. The first is that the long-term unemployed should be allowed to hire a fixed-term employment relationship without the criteria we currently have in the Employment Contracts Act in order to be able to enter into a fixed-term employment relationship. The second point relates to the maximum duration of the probationary period, and this proposal would therefore extend the probationary period. And the third element relates to the fact that, if a worker is dismissed for economic and production reasons, he has a certain period of reinstatement, i.e. the employer cannot recruit a new workforce for similar tasks, but must return to this old employee, and it is proposed that this be shortened, in a way to be weakened from the employee's point of view. The aim of the proposal is to improve employment opportunities for the long-term unemployed. This proposal is considered to reduce the employment threshold and to encourage, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises to recruit new workers, whether it is an obligation to take back or a time limit or a probationary period to reduce the risk associated with recruitment. It was very difficult to find out what the overall impact of this package would be on employment, because, in fact, there have been no similar types of reforms as a whole and the studies carried out in relation to this theme are generally related to the general deadline or to the general flexibility of the Employment Contracts Act. In an expert hearing, Finnish Entrepreneurs estimated that the changes contained in the proposal will help create up to 10,000 additional jobs. The committee believes that these changes, which make the labour market more flexible and lower the employment threshold, as well as creating new jobs, are in the right direction to promote economic growth, but their impact is difficult to assess and, from this point of view, it considered the proposal to be justified. We all know that employment opportunities for the unemployed will fall clearly as a result of an increase in the duration of unemployment, and it is important to find ways of facilitating the employment of the long-term unemployed. The committee is in favour of facilitating the conditions for a fixed-term employment contract with the long-term unemployed and considers that it may break down the fears of recruiting the long-term unemployed, but at the same time also clarifies the situation in the intermediate labour market. We know that the intermediate labour market is often working on fixed-term contracts, which may even conflict with the provisions of the current Employment Contracts Act on fixed-term contracts, and it is therefore justified to clarify this situation. According to an expert opinion, the employment benefit resulting from allowing for a lighter use of fixed-term contracts often comes at the expense of permanent employment relationships, which in fact may have a limited impact on the economy as a whole and on employment, and there is no guarantee that the employment rate will increase. There is a great deal of international research literature here, but research that would make it easier for the long-term unemployed in particular has not been carried out and, in that sense, one conclusion cannot be drawn quite directly between the two. The committee believes that the impact of fixed-term employment contracts with the long-term unemployed in Finland should be monitored and examined, and whether it will facilitate the employment of the long-term unemployed and affect overall employment. The committee also drew attention to the fact that, especially in the long run, unemployment would easily lead to an unjustified negative stigmatisation of the unemployed person, and in its report it wanted to emphasise that the group of unemployed people is very heterogeneous in terms of their skills: there are people with perfect working capacity and skills, and there are people who, in fact, should actually be retired. But it is important that, even if this particular fixed-term employment relationship is used, it should not lead to otherwise discriminatory behaviour on the labour market. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave its opinion on this and stated that this difference in treatment between the long-term unemployed and other jobseekers can be considered acceptable, even if it relates to a reason relating to a person, because it has an acceptable basis and can be regulated in the normal order. The committee drew attention to the fact that where this long-term unemployment is calculated and what happens if these fixed-term contracts are of limited duration may cause problems of interpretation and it is therefore important that the employer has knowledge of this worker's work history. But here we come to data protection problems again, because the fact that a person is unemployed as a job seeker in the employment office does not have public information and must not be given to anyone, and when he is still particularly long-term unemployed, this does not make it legally more difficult, but in any case it is even more difficult than just unemployment in a certain way. That is why we stressed in the report that this reporting to the employer must be precise, that is to say it should only be about the fact that the employer is actually seeking the employee, and that the long-term unemployed person whose information is given to the employer has authorised them himself and that this unemployed person is specifically suitable for that task, i.e. he must not give any mass registers or mass lists to employers. This is important because in the committee consultation we had a slightly different idea on the implementation side of how this is to be done. Well, then this extension of the probationary period and the gender impact assessment. Gender impact assessments have now been carried out in relation to the extension of the probationary period and in fact show that it may even favour the labour market position of women, since maternity leave and parental leave, if they come for the probationary period, can be used to extend that probation period and to consider that they do not then lead to unpleasant penalties. The committee considered that this extension of the probationary period could lower the recruitment threshold, but wanted to emphasise that the rules of the game that are involved in dismissal should also be adhered to in the event of termination of employment during the probationary period. In other words, the second point that emerged clearly during the committee hearings was that this extension of the probation period is not in sync. It can be done by the employer, but it cannot be done by employees. And the committee wanted to emphasise that this is an issue that should be balanced between both parties, and perhaps it would be worth considering in the future that the worker can extend this probation period as well, because then the responsibilities and responsibilities of both the employer and the worker will be slightly different. Then for taking back an employee. That is perhaps the most problematic aspect of this, and the government's proposal also states that it is actually impossible to assess whether the reduction in the take-back period has any real impact on the employment threshold or not. In other words, the impact on employment is perhaps the weakest. The proposal proposes that the obligation to take back be reduced from 9 months to 4 months, but if the employment relationship has continued for more than a year, that obligation to take back would be 6 months. It is a question of the employer not being allowed to select a new employee for the same job, but of taking back that worker who has been made redundant for economic and production reasons. The obligation to take back is part of the employee’s employment security and must be seen as such. In this respect, it is important to draw attention to the fact that if dismissal is unjustified and the readmission period is very short and during this period new employees are recruited for the same tasks, then whether that dismissal was justified or unjustified — there will be a big question mark on this issue. The committee stressed that this should also be followed up in the future. This committee's report contains one motion for rejection and one objection with amendments to the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u176	Mr President! The SD Group in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities and the Greens have objected to this report because the government is making a number of crucial statements about the possible weakening of the position of workers and the fragmentation of working life, which we cannot accept except at a limited time. I would like to present this long-term objection. The length is due to the fact that we have a different perspective on all three changes introduced by Mr Filatov. So that is why we have so long protests. The aim of the proposal is to improve employment opportunities for the long-term unemployed, lower the employer's employment threshold and increase the willingness of employers to grow. However, the expert hearings have shown and, in part, the reasons for the proposal show that the impact of the proposed measures on the achievement of the objectives has not been demonstrated in any way: there is no evidence to support this bill. What is research evidence is that the proposals reduce the protection against dismissal, increase the uncertainty and inequality of working life and stiffen the labour market by reducing the willingness to change jobs. With the proposal, the Government also seeks to increase companies' willingness to grow and employment. These effects have been examined in the context of the overall reform of the Employment Contracts Act. The impact of the Employment Contracts Act as a whole on employment was found to be virtually non-existent and, for example, previous trials to facilitate fixed-term benefits were found to be completely ineffective. If there is no positive impact on the economy and employment, in practice, these changes only mean an increase in the uncertainty of working life, which in turn will further reduce purchasing power, demand and competitiveness and jobs. During the expert consultation, for example, the Labour Protection Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has stressed the importance of monitoring the impact of legislative proposals, as the draft law contains provisions intended to protect workers. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also states in its opinion that the government must also monitor the actual impact of legislation on the situation of those who are taking family leave and on gender equality. The effectiveness of the proposals, which will enable decisions to be taken in the future, should be clarified by means of a follow-up study in the course of the law, and we will make our own statement on this. Mr President! The proposal proposes to reduce the duration of the employer's readmission obligation to 4 months. However, after an uninterrupted period of employment, by the end of the period of 12 years, the readmission period would be 6 months. The proposal suggests that greater freedom would encourage employers to enter into more permanent employment relationships and that the proposal would improve the position of young people in particular in the labour market. In Finland, the protection against dismissal is already weak and there is no requirement for authorisations from public authorities or agreements with cooperation bodies in other parts of Europe. We also do not have to pay the severance payments that are commonly used, according to the length of the employment relationship, in addition to the salary for the period of notice. Compared to these procedures, priority is given to getting back a former job as an advantage and an employer's obligation to be truly modest. Shortening the readmission period in this way does not in any way improve employment, but in practice nullifies the importance of the readmission obligation. It is also questionable how the willingness of the company to grow will be affected by the fact that the employee can be replaced more quickly. The only thing that is certain is that the proposal will facilitate the circumvention of the protection against dismissal. It should also be noted that the older the unemployed, the greater the risk of long-term unemployment. This risk will be further increased by reducing the take-back period, as even a person who has made a long career in the same job will be deprived of the opportunity for his or her former job. The reduction in the readmission obligation would also be reflected in the assessment of the grounds for dismissal. At the same time, the conditions for concluding employment relationships would be reduced and the number of disputes of notice would increase. As part of the preparation of the proposal, wage and salary earners' organisations proposed that the work of the dismissed worker be prohibited not only by the new employee but also by other workers, such as temporary workers, self-employed workers or subcontractors. Unfortunately, this clarification was not made, even though the current situation is unsustainable and contrary to the general sense of justice. For the reasons set out above, we do not accept the reduction of the readmission obligation and in this respect we propose that the proposal be rejected. Mr President! The government also proposes an extension of the probationary period. The proposal also states that there is very limited information on the effects of the duration of the trial, so it is difficult to assess the impact with objective criteria. Instead of an objective assessment, the explanatory statement of the proposal gives a number of thought to what might happen. Extending the probationary period may increase the uncertainty experienced by employees, which is linked to well-being at work. The main negative effects of the extension of the trial period will be on those who have to go through several trial periods. The lengthening of the probation period also includes risk factors for discrimination in relation to family leave. The proposal may weaken the position of women working in fixed-term contracts in particular, which is why it is particularly important to monitor the impact of the proposal. The problems of the trial period in general relate to the impossibility of proving that the reason for termination of employment was inappropriate. The employer does not need to justify the cessation of work other than during the probationary period, but the worker should prove that the reason for the termination was not lawful. The reason for the decision is important both in getting new jobs and in applying for unemployment benefit benefits. Mr President! According to the draft law, the long-term unemployed should be hired for a fixed-term employment contract for a maximum period of one year without a specific justified reason. There is no research-based information on the extent to which a significant obstacle to employment is the need to justify a fixed-term employment relationship. It is possible that the proposal would increase employers' interest in recruiting the long-term unemployed. If so, the proposal is also justified for reasons of social policy. However, the proposal is complex and increases the administrative burden. It should also be noted that there are a lot of problems with fixed-term work for the employee. According to the study, these include lower wages, a higher number of threats to work, a lower number of training paid by the employer and much less opportunities to influence the content of the work. In some cases, these problems and their experience may even be highlighted in the case of the long-term unemployed, who pose a greater threat to exclusion and to life management. In the absence of convincing arguments for the proposal, we believe that it is necessary to provide for a fixed period of time and to monitor its impact on facilitating employment and the unjustified chaining of employment contracts. Finally, Mr President, at second reading we will be tabling amendments and proposals for statements in response to our objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u177	Mr President! In its presentation, the government wants the long-term unemployed to be able to get back to work. The government really wants to create jobs and job opportunities for Finns, unlike the previous government just promised. Of course, it comes as no surprise that this is not acceptable to the opposition. This time, the opposition is suggesting that the long-term unemployed should not be hired for a fixed-term employment relationship without a particularly justified reason, due to a lack of impact assessments. This is a special requirement, even if it is seen that there is, however, a clear limitation in the legal provision as to how long the period of time can be extended on this basis. I can give you an impact assessment very briefly: in a bad case, the long-term unemployed will not be employed in this way either. In a good case, he will be employed, and that is a good thing, especially for this long-term unemployed person himself. Sometimes I feel that there is no realism involved in these protests. In practical working life, for example, these things can work in such a way that employees are offered an agreement that states that the time-limit is based on a common agreement. You can not sign that contract, but you can't get to work. If you sign it, you have a joint agreement. I wonder if one of these realities should be known before these performances are drawn up. During Question Time, the opposition was concerned about long-term unemployment, as it rightly is. If, therefore, these objections were to be withdrawn, which are simply aimed at taking away the means to employ them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u178	Mr President! This law contains three amendments, which are more acceptable and understandable, first of all by allowing the long-term unemployed to be employed in a fixed-term employment relationship without requiring a specific justified reason. However, since there is also a risk that a company will be able to take advantage of the fixed-term periods of the long-term unemployed in a chain, we proposed this for a fixed-term period. The second of these three, which will be easy to live with in the future, is to extend the maximum duration of the probationary period to 6 months. I find it difficult to find good arguments for having two-time probation periods at work in Finland. We have six months of probation and four months of probation, and therefore only six months in the future, and this is justified on this point, although it should be borne in mind that this proposal now only entitles the employer to extend the probationary period on the basis of certain absences. This does not fully correspond to the function of the probationary period, and that is the reason why we have proposed a deadline for this too. However, the most difficult of these proposals is, of course, to reduce the duration of the readmission obligation to four months. It's hard for a lot of reasons. If we are thinking about the European average, it is about 6 months, and when, in many European countries, there is still a separate compensation for redundancies, which is lacking in Finland, we would have liked this proposal to have been submitted to another law, which would have made it easier to be behind this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u179	Mr President! In the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament we also discussed this proposal and felt that, here, for example, this extension of the probation period is what we have been driving in our own electoral programmes in the sense that today, as Mr Järvinen has said here, these different trial periods exist and yet, you might say, the most important investment of many companies is that worker. Surely it is also important for the worker to know that the job and the job he is going to be doing is exactly what he likes, so that we are in favour of this extension of the probationary period. On the other hand, at second reading, we will be submitting a proposal for a statement specifically relating to this fixed-term employment relationship for the long-term unemployed without a legitimate reason. As has been said here in many speeches, we do not actually have any research data. We don't know what's going to happen with this. In the best case — and that is what we hope and why we were not actually going to protest about — this would make it easier for the long-term unemployed to find employment. At a time when a person is long-term unemployed, if there is an opportunity for employment, it is certainly welcome and desirable, but since there may be a small chance that there might be some kind of abuse in this area, we assume that we will look at this matter for a year. If this has not actually improved employment opportunities for the long-term unemployed, then there is no need for such a change and the need for it to be valid in this area of the law should then be assessed. But let's give it a chance. Let's see.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u180	Mr President! When that first speech was a presentation by the chairman of the committee, I will now bring in some of my own views on this law. When the government program came up and these proposals came up, I thought that, well, now the government will build such a law, which is younger, prettier and cheaper, and that it is an employee exchange week law, because it would have sought to meet the same challenge, i.e. to lower this recruitment threshold. And when all these instruments had been used at the same time, there would only have been greater inequality and uncertainty in working life, when one instrument could reduce the recruitment threshold. But after the conclusion of fixed-term employment contracts was limited to the long-term unemployed, this law improved significantly from this point of view of uncertainty. However, the most problematic point is this obligation to take back. If we look at our current unemployment statistics and at how the employment rates of the different age groups have developed, in fact, the employment rate of older people has actually improved only because they have managed to keep their jobs. But after an aged person becomes unemployed, the chances of employment of a person who is a little over 50 will be greatly reduced, and when you come closer to the age of 60, education will in fact no longer help you to find employment. When people with a higher level of education tend to have better employment opportunities and less well-educated opportunities, when they are there beyond 58 to 60, education is in fact completely inflated. There is no difference in whether you have completed a mere primary or a university degree, but when the age is 60, it is really impossible to find a job. It is therefore important that companies do not switch from older workers to younger workers. But this obligation to take back opens up a Pandora’s box that in fact there is the possibility of replacing an older worker, an ill worker or an employee who is feared that the risk of disability will be triggered, younger, prettier and cheaper — and very easy. That is why this paragraph is very problematic. In fact, even at the moment, our obligation to take back, as it were, in a living life: although it is long, it is possible to hire employees for the same job through temporary agency work or some other kind of vis-à-vis us. And in my opinion, this is the point that weakens our overall employment in this law, because those older workers are less well-employed. They are more likely to be unemployed until retirement, and that does not improve our employment rate. Government parties think that this makes it possible, as it were, to take over a more productive worker and thus, in a way, to improve the competitiveness of the company and to move forward. It may be that the competitiveness of an individual company will improve, but will the overall employment rate improve? Are we getting more skilled labour into the labour market through this, and are we trying to increase productivity in general by means of such measures that undermine the employment of older people? In recent times there has been quite a lot of public information about what this situation is for the elderly, and in that sense I find this very sad. On the other hand, I am prepared to accept this period of time for the long-term unemployed and I myself myself in my own report because of the fact that our legal situation in the intermediate labour market is somewhat unclear, there may be misunderstandings, but people there do not dispute them because they know that this fixed-term employment relationship is better for me than full-time unemployment. And in that sense, it is good to allow what is happening in practice to some extent, even legally. The extension of the probationary period is not a terrible risk, but if, at the same time, fixed-term contracts had been opened for all and the probationary period had been extended, then in fact, two laws would have responded to the same issue by reducing the security of working life. But when the government was prepared to limit this deadline after cooperation with the social partners, it has therefore improved considerably. Looking back on history, the fact is that we have had a rather fierce system of chaining up fixed-term contracts in which they have been chained completely beyond control. The worst examples are those where the work of the same person has been chained to the exact same employment relationship more than 100 times. Consider the uncertainty that a person is held in when work is shredded into such small pieces. International research shows that a general reduction in the framework conditions for fixed-term periods may bring a small honeymoon to employment, but over time that employment benefit will be eliminated and, in fact, that fixed-term periods will replace permanent employment and will not generate additional employment benefits or economic benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u181	Mr President! The unfortunate thing about decision-making is that a whole range of elements and ingredients are being packed into the same legislative reform, which in practice means that even if you support one but oppose another, you will have to vote against the whole package of laws. I would argue that the representatives of the government parties have the same problem in the other direction, and I am sure that the government will not support all these measures, at least with the same intensity. The second problem is that we are about to have a huge number of legislative proposals that reduce and shorten unemployment security: self-responsibles are being increased, unemployment security is being reduced, the situation of the long-term unemployed is being reduced, probation periods are being changed and so on. In practice, it makes this whole a reasonably difficult package, the overall impact of which no one can know anymore. Listening to the experts, some of these means are desirable, perhaps even recommendable, but the experts, very collectively and in general, feel that these means should be introduced in the context of a boom when jobs are genuinely available. Now we have 650,000 people of working age and capable of working outside the labour market and there are genuinely no jobs, so this is not the best time for this overall reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u182	Mr President! I would just like to say here that I am in favour of the amendments to the articles tabled by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, who have been objected to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u183	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 15/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u184	Mr President! The Government's proposal is based on the EU directive on energy efficiency in buildings. According to it, all new buildings must be built into nearly zero-energy buildings by the end of 2020 and public buildings two years earlier. The directive, in turn, is based on climate objectives and the fact that buildings consume a significant proportion of energy, about 40 per cent of which is heating around 25 percentage points. Improving the energy efficiency of buildings is therefore one of the most important ways of protecting the climate. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also points out that emissions reductions will increase in the future. In order to achieve the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement, global CO2 emissions should be brought to zero before the middle of the century. The EU target level also needs to be tightened. The actual steak on this issue will be regulated by regulations to which the law authorises. The drafts have partly served as background for the proceedings, although the requirements of the draft regulations have been relaxed since the consultation. This means, on the other hand, that the government's proposal will not entail significant additional costs, since the solutions already in place in general will achieve the objectives. On the other hand, it also means that the environmental benefits of the reform will be reduced. It may well be that, in fact, the term "nearly zero-energy house" creates an impression of stricter requirements than the law and the draft regulation actually mean. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection emphasises the life cycle of buildings. The energy consumption of the life cycle is affected not only by heating energy but also by the production of building materials, the construction itself, repairs and finally by demolition and recycling, which are estimated to account for between 20 and 45 per cent of the carbon footprint of the new apartment building. Even the energy efficiency of walls is influenced not only by heat conduction but also by the way the walls store heat. In connection with the energy efficiency of houses, moisture damage is often referred to. According to the studies, good heat insulation does not in itself increase or cause moisture damage, but structures may become more erratic. From the point of view of indoor air health, ventilation control is increasingly important. As building technology becomes more complex, the importance of the correct maintenance and use of systems and their competence is emphasised. It is important to ensure that the construction work is done correctly, for example by ensuring that materials are protected from rain during construction. The committee believes that the aim should be to make it as easy to use as possible for residents and users so that user errors do not cause damage. Attention should be paid to the user guidance of residents, as well as to the fact that information is transferred, for example, when the dwelling is sold. Now there are no established practices. The Committee stresses that energy efficiency must not mean compromising the health of buildings. It must be well designed and implemented to ensure that a lot of people in homes, schools and workplaces are still exposed to bad, even sick indoor air. There are problems with the diagnosis of these diseases and the detection of disability. The committee believes that regulation should be neutral in terms of materials and technology, but considers it justified that the reference value for thermal conductivity should be easier for log construction than for other wall structures. The Committee also draws attention to the knowledge of traditional monomaterial structures and gravitational ventilation. These are still permitted and possible, but we must also ensure that this is known. Training shall ensure that their competence is maintained. The coefficients for energy forms are laid down in the Regulation. The coefficient for fossil energy is 1, renewable energy is preferred by a factor of 0.5. The coefficients for district heat and electricity will be reduced compared to the current ones. Energy used directly in buildings, such as wind and solar energy, can be calculated directly for good, i.e. their coefficient is 0. Mr President! On the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Transport, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection makes a statement that, as the energy efficiency of buildings improves, mobile telephone networks will continue to function indoors. That is essential for the security of people and society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u185	Mr President! Just as the chairman of the committee, Mrs Hassi, said when she presented this committee's report: the majority of this content of the law is made subject to regulations. The Social Democrats support the committee's report, which was done in good agreement with the committee, but the problem remains just how we react to that content, which is being adopted with regulations. It has now been clearly demonstrated that Finland is rather poorly ranked in energy efficiency. For example, according to such an international study, Sweden is on 5th and Finland is on 31rd, but the weather conditions are broadly similar. So this is one of the reasons why we believe that we really can afford to improve energy efficiency as well. For this reason, we will make a statement for adoption: "The Commission requires that the energy efficiency requirements of the Finnish building stock be monitored and the necessary measures taken if the objectives are not met. The emission reduction targets and the energy efficiency requirements of the building stock must meet each other's requirements and they must genuinely reduce emissions throughout the life cycle of the building." In fact, it was quite extraordinary that the representatives of the committee's government parties did not want this statement to be included, because otherwise the committee's report was very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u186	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There has been quite a lot of criticism of almost zero construction, and I have also partly agreed with that. In fact, criticism of zero-building has grown especially in Finland all the time, and it is also interesting that even the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have been critical of this almost zero-building set of regulations. Perhaps the extent of the concern is also illustrated by the fact that 75 different parties responded to the request from the Ministry of the Environment, although 55 were asked for an opinion on nearly zero construction regulations. The building magazine figuratively stated that almost zero construction under Finnish conditions requires thick insulation layers to compensate for the near termination of heating. According to Professor Vinha, as structural thicknesses grow, possible building errors are repeated, because thick structures do not dry up when they dry, but moisture remains in the mush structures. Energy regulations for buildings do not seek profitable investments, because they would then be created without necessity, but rather a reduction in climate emissions, that is, the fight against climate change, as the committee's report also states. I always read in the local paper about the house doctor, Kaila, who knows pretty well about building, both old and new. He wrote in the paper that 'there is no end to the construction of ill houses'. Kaila continued: "The builder should already require a paper where the building builder or the commission issuing the permit and order commits itself to replacing future home repairs and residents' ills." It is a tough demand and a good illustration of that lack of faith or suspicion of this legislation. In his article, Kaila quoted Professor Matti Ollila, one of the most experienced engineers in our country. In 2014, Ollila wrote in the Building magazine: "Oversized thermal insulation, bottle tightness and mechanical ventilation may be a risk to both the building and the health of the residents. The retention of the dew point in excess of a thick thermal insulation means the gradual movement of moisture unforeseeably. The phenomenon is slow but very likely," he wrote. Mechanical ventilation is unnecessary and even harmful in schools and apartments. The requirement to change indoor air every two hours is an indication of a standard that favours equipment manufacturers, for which there is no technical justification. In fact, I think that the House Doctor, Kaila, drew it together quite figuratively that today, the designers and industry of the houses are happy to suggest that the standards would always require mechanical ventilation and plastic vapour locks. Ollila mentions Tamperesteiner School, which has been made with natural air conditioning. The K3 houses of the Finnish Cultural Foundation have five types of houses with breathable structures and gravitational ventilation. Free-use building drawings with their approved calculations can be found on the Internet, for example, so there are alternatives after that. Indoor air problems are often caused by ventilation defects, carelessness or abuse. Old-time schools also function better: three-quarters of an hour of instruction and 15 minutes of window ventilation. I don't think we need to reinvent everything. I agree with Mrs Kaila that many times we always go according to the so-called easiest. Kaila wrote that there are still building boards and building inspectors whose professional skills are not sufficient to understand gravity calculations, and it is then easiest to demand blindly the equipment manufacturers’ papers. The EU directive, which will come into force from the beginning of 2021, will therefore require all new buildings to be almost zero-energy houses. This will cause a major change in the construction industry. I hope that this is not progressing by haste or at least making mistakes by haste. I think we need more research and more education and information, and this is something that needs to be taken extremely seriously. Because we no longer need a new mold school and hospital or a house that suffers from bad indoor air. I personally understand that the EU directive is binding on us. It is, of course, difficult to understand that the same requirement exists here as in countries where there are no such heat fluctuations as we do. Fortunately, the requirement for almost zero construction applies only to new buildings. As noted above, the building stock accounts for about 40 per cent of final energy consumption. This is an important factor and, of course, we must try to save energy. As stated in the committee's report, "The Finnish Environment Agency has recently examined the baseline scenario for energy consumption in buildings until 2050. According to the study, the energy consumption of the building stock will fall by 13% between 2015 and 2050 with current policy measures, although the building stock will increase by 38%." I personally hope that there will be no mistake about building more mold houses in Finland. I hope that later, when this legislation is assessed, I have been wrong and this directive has been right and sensible. Mr President! So I myself am in favour of energy saving. For example, smart electrical networks can influence this, including room-specific heat controls, thermostats and many others. Finally, Mr President, today the government has tabled further amendments to the Land Use and Construction Act, and I very much welcome them for making it easier and smoother for us to build, land use, planning and construction itself. There is a lot of regulation there that would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u187	Mr President! In fact, in his speech Mr Heinonen paid very much the same attention as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in his report. The tone of Mr Heinonen's speech just sounded different. Among other things, the committee stresses the need to make buildings with healthy indoor air and, among other things, to ensure knowledge of traditional building methods, structures and gravity ventilation in the future. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also organised a public consultation of experts on these indoor air problems, the causes of problems, diseases and treatments some weeks ago. On that occasion and in other studies, which I have seen for reasons of these indoor air problems, in fact, much of the energy efficiency that has been accused is not particularly great as a cause of the problems, but mainly as a result of errors in construction itself, negligence, negligence and also errors in the use of buildings. For example, in many schools it is a very simple matter of putting off air conditioning for the night and the weekend, when in modern times there would be much more intelligent systems that would also be energy efficient. Mr President! I have just presented the committee's report as chairman of the committee. In my personal view, I would also like to say that I support the protest and the impetus expressed by Mrs Myller, and I do not think it is very good that the government is planning to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u188	Mr President! When the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi, is here, I actually forgot to talk about that mobile network coverage, which was very much raised in the Committee on Transport and Communications, but according to your report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, this almost zero construction would not in fact cause these problems, which the Committee on Transport and Communications raised, namely that radio signals would not come through the walls. Could the chairman of the committee briefly explain how this has been interpreted in such a different way in two different committees?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u189	Mr President! There is now a feeling that Mr Heinonen has not read the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because the Committee on the Environment proposes that Parliament adopt a statement on the following content: "The Committee requires that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport and Communications jointly draw up the necessary regulations to ensure the internal coverage of public mobile networks essential for the safety of citizens and society in the residential building in a manner appropriate to the construction of the building, taking into account the energy efficiency of the building and other essential technical requirements. In the future, the Government should monitor the impact of the regulation and implementation of mobile networks on the internal space coverage of mobile networks and, if necessary, take measures to ensure that they are accessible." Mr President! Since my speech was interrupted by a time limit of 2 minutes, I would add that since 2008 at least there have been so-called passive houses in Finland that do not need a separate heating system at all. At least it is not known to me that these houses would in any way shine with problems of mould, interior and moisture, so I would like to stress that, according to VTT and those who have investigated these matters, there are mainly other reasons for the problems of humidity and indoor air.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u190	Mr President! Sorry, I misunderstood this, that is to say, when the committee's report first refers to the Committee on Transport and Communications, which raises these issues, then the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy states that the problem of the reception of radio signals has been identified, the existing problem, which is not affected by the government's proposal, does not affect the situation. That is what I am referring to, and now I understand that these concerns, which have come to the Committee on Transport and Communications, are already related to other structures in the house, and therefore this zero-building will not exacerbate the problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u191	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 32/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate begins, Mr Haatainen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u192	Mr President! This government proposal relates to the competitiveness agreement concluded by the central organisations of the labour market and, accordingly, the employer's employment pension insurance contribution, unemployment insurance contributions and health insurance contributions will be reduced from the beginning of next year, while the contribution of employees will be increased so that this reduction in the employer's contribution will not jeopardise the financing of social security. It is now the case that, according to the legislation in force, when calculating the amount of daily allowance benefits, the earnings are first reduced by 60% of the total amount of employee contributions and, when employee contributions increase at the beginning of next year, increases would reduce the amount of daily allowances in euros. Since it is not intended to cut daily allowances, it is proposed to amend the benefit laws so that changes in payments do not reduce or increase benefits, and the committee is in favour of this proposal. At the same time, this draft law also proposes to amend the Act on accidents at work and occupational diseases for farmers. This is the time limit for lodging an accident report and the time limit within which it may be lodged shall be increased from 30 to 60 days from the date of the injury. This proposal was adopted unanimously, so the committee proposes that Parliament accept the Government proposal 214/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u193	Mr President! Now we have to thank the government for being a thank-you. To the extent that this concerns the competitiveness pact, it is good that the government should compensate and ensure that employees do not lose. On the other hand, it is also proposed that the Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases of the Farmers be amended in such a way that it serves and supports farmers' access to the necessary benefits. When they seek this right in their own right through the accident report, it was found that there have been a total of 3,000 claims of which 600 have been late because they have not been collected on schedule. For this reason, it is now highly justified that this period should extend from 30 to 60 days.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u194	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 33/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate on the matter begins, Mr Haatainen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u195	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the Act amending the Act on Income Support and the Act amending the Act on Income Support, the Act on Rehabilitation Work and the Act on the Promotion of Integration, the Child Welfare Act and the Act on the treatment and detention of detained foreigners. After all, this proposal complements the legislation adopted in the past, on the basis of which the granting and payment of basic income support is transferred to the Social Insurance Institution at the beginning of 2017. In addition, this proposal contains some completely new provisions. This proposal would specify the division of labour between Kela and the municipality in connection with the application for income support and the transfer of the application. The committee went through this thoroughly and, in approving the reform of the implementation of income support, the committee felt that it was necessary to be prepared for the seamless and comprehensive service of the customer through cooperation between Kela and the municipalities prior to the entry into force of the Act. This is therefore the 2014 report, when the actual transfer of income support was decided upon. The committee now regrets that the government's proposal has been delayed and that legislative changes can only be confirmed just before the operational processes begin, and this change will take place at the very last minute. Similarly, the committee feels that this puts Kela's staff in a very challenging situation, as applications must be resolved and customers advised from the beginning of the year. However, this transitional provision, which now contains a proposal for a legislation on income support, would enable decisions for next year to be taken in Kela from the beginning of December, but it is clear that the legislation contained in this proposal will not be put into effect by then. It is therefore good that the transitional provision will allow decisions to be taken by the municipality until the end of March next year in respect of applications submitted before the entry into force of the laws now to be adopted. In its above-mentioned report on the transfer of income support, the committee considered it necessary to focus on the creation of clear practices in dealings and customer guidance in social work services, customer advice on seeking benefits, and cooperation and smooth flow of information between authorities. At the time, the committee also identified from the customer's point of view the problems of how social work is linked to the provision of basic income support and how the needs of those in a vulnerable and difficult situation in life are taken care of and how to secure urgent income support. From the customer's point of view, the committee therefore welcomes the new provision now proposed to be added to the law, according to which the municipality may grant income support in order to ensure urgent and necessary assistance in exceptional circumstances without the customer's right to basic income support being first assessed and resolved in Kela. The instrument therefore ensures access to assistance in specific situations. The committee dealt with this transfer of the application to the municipality, and when this transfer of implementation relates only to basic income, i.e. basic expenditure related to income support, however, 40% of those receiving income support also apply for this supplementary income support, which is still being implemented in the municipalities. When the transfer was approved, it was stipulated that, if the application contains expenditure that cannot be taken into account in the case of basic income support, Kela will then transfer the application to the competent municipality without delay in order to terminate and resolve this supplementary and preventive income support there. The proposal now proposes to amend this previously adopted legislation, however, so that Kela is obliged to transfer the application to the municipality only if the customer individually requests this when applying for income support and receiving the decision. In addition, the applicant is required to submit in his application expenditure other than those mentioned in the Income Support Act, i.e. expenditure in the basic or other basic expenditure. This proposed amendment now limits the number of applications to be transferred to the municipality so that only applications to which supplementary income support has been granted by municipalities on the basis of established legal and award practice should be transferred on the basis of the applicant’s request. This transfer obligation mainly concerns one-off expenditure relating to the specific situation of the person. The committee stresses that this proposed amendment does not limit the right of the customer to apply for supplementary or preventive income support separately. The need for supplementary income support can be linked to a wide range of situations. With regard to customer advice and guidance, the committee also wanted to record in this report and notes that the solution proposed for the transfer of applications reduces the transfer of applications and the administrative work required by rejection decisions. It also ensures the appropriate targeting of social welfare professionals in municipalities. Transferring the application from Kela to the municipality only at the customer's own request underlines the customer's self-determination and, however, when the transfer requires the customer's own activity, the committee believes that this change requires active customer advice and guidance. It is very difficult for the customer to understand which part of the income support he should apply for in the municipality. In this regard, the committee wanted to emphasise the importance of providing advice and information. The committee also stressed that cooperation and smooth customer service require effective ict solutions. The Committee considers it important that, once the implementation of the reform has begun, the cooperation between Kela and the municipality, the division of labour and the functioning of the chosen model are closely monitored and evaluated. It is also important that municipalities monitor how the need for social work for those covered by income support becomes secure. There are also detailed reasons for a few amendments to Article 11 and the amendments to the transitional provision. The committee therefore proposes that this proposal be adopted with these amendments. This motion was unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u196	Mr President! As the chairman of the committee said just now, this is an extension of the transfer of the basic income support to Kela approved during the last period. Now, in fact, there are a few things I would like to raise here. First of all, income support is a last resort income support and should be temporary and include social services and social work, where necessary, in order to support the clarification of different life situations and the objectives that a person can get out of this income support rather than vice versa. Unfortunately, at the moment, income support as a system is linked to people's income support and poverty and low income, and it is therefore essential that the entire income support system be reformed for this millennium and decades. In other words, it will, in principle, continue to require the last and temporary nature of this income support, and it should be linked more strongly and more strongly to the elements of social services and support. In practice, when a person has to rely on income support for various reasons, if there are other issues related to life management there too, they should be able to get them out of there and thereby also dismantle this dependency on income support. Unfortunately, in almost all the government proposals that have been made during this period and which have reduced the priority benefits, the argument is that these proposals will increase income support and thus increase dependency on income support, low incomes, poverty, and not the objective of people moving away from this income support... [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : The speaker may come back from the speaker's room. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u199	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 11/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-24-ps-120.u200	Mr President! This bill, which expands worker protection in the event of dismissal, forms part of a competitiveness agreement negotiated between social partners, while at the same time demonstrating the benefits of the employee's competitiveness agreement. According to this bill, an employer who regularly employs at least 30 persons must offer his or her employees, for productive and financial reasons, the opportunity to take part in training or training to promote employment if the person made redundant has been employed for at least five years. Training or training is a duty-free benefit for its recipient, and this extension of the security of change will improve the opportunities for those made redundant to develop their skills and thus their ability to re-enter the labour market. In the event of similar conditions being fulfilled, those made redundant shall also be offered the possibility of using occupational health care services for a period of six months from the end of the obligation to work unless they re-employment during that period. This amendment aims to support the working and functional capacity of those made redundant and thus to promote their employment opportunities as a matter of urgency. Mr President! It is a good thing that this part of the competitiveness pact can be taken forward and put into law with the unanimous report and support of the committee.
