ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 November 2016. In the debate, Anna Kontula Hanna Sarkkinen has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u3	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Rescue Act and the Emergency Response Centre Act. The impact of these proposals is good for the safety of citizens and for the effectiveness of the tasks of public authorities. Access to information will be improved: e.g. extensive free access rights for the rescue authority for certain civil status data. Access to information will also be improved through the registration of some other authorities, while at the same time the extension of the disclosure will take place. Close cooperation between the Emergency Response Centre and the Border Guard is also part of good reforms. The proposed revision of the Civil Protection Authority's rights to information creates the conditions for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of rescue operations and safety at work. Access to information safeguards the effectiveness of the rescue service, which, on the one hand, has an impact on the prevention of serious accidents and, on the other hand, on the ability to significantly limit the consequences of accidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, please move the other debates outside this Chamber so that we can discuss this matter here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u5	Madam President! The Government's proposal to amend the Act on Emergency Response Centres will clarify and improve the information rights of the authorities. The amendments to the Rescue Act relate to the planning and implementation of the rescue operations and the performance of the oversight tasks assigned to the rescue services. The amendments to the Act on Emergency Response Centres relate to the right of the Emergency Response Centre Agency to receive information in order to ensure initial measures or safety at work. It is also a good thing that, at the same time, the status of the Border Guard is clarified and given the right to use the National Emergency Response Centre Information System. I believe that the amendment of the law responds to new, challenging practical needs. We will soon also have other major reforms, such as those of the provincial, social and health services and the rescue services. They will make it necessary to review the legislation. I believe that the changes to the proposal will improve the efficiency of the authorities and are necessary to ensure high-quality emergency centre services. Article 89 of the Rescue Act proposes, among other things, to provide for the right of the Emergency Response Authority to receive safety and safety information necessary for the safety or safety of the Emergency Response Authority, so-called ‘precautionary information’ from the Emergency Response Centre Information System. This change will definitely improve the safety of rescue services both in operational operations and in supervisory tasks. Precautionary information shall cover information necessary for the personal safety or safety of the person, such as information on the danger or unpredictability of the subject or person. The information may also cover, for example, the explosion or radiation risk of the object. In a clearly changed environment where risks have increased, access to this information will also improve security. It is also necessary that the proposal clarifies the role of the Border Guard. Maritime rescue has its own alarm number, but 112 will also be contacted. It is therefore necessary for the Border Guard to provide the Emergency Response Centre Authority with instructions on handling calls related to maritime rescue. The provision of guidance and plans will speed up the assistance chain and facilitate the identification of appropriate assistance for the task. It also frees the departments of the various authorities for their core tasks. Instructions and plans with response proposals will be drawn up under the leadership of the Border Guard in cooperation with the police, rescue and social services and health services. At present, the Border Guard has no right to deposit data directly into the Emergency Response Centre Information System. It is now proposed to include in the Act on Emergency Response Centres a provision on the right of the Border Guard to use the Emergency Response Centre Information System and to store information on its own field of activity. This is the case in section 16. This provision is necessary to ensure flexible cooperation between the authorities and to reduce the workload of the Emergency Response Centre. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u6	Madam President! Representative Raatikainen went through this motion for reform of the Rescue and Emergency Response Act. They will make our authorities more effective. Yes, internal security is now one that talks and worries many Finns, and I welcome the fact that progress is now also being made in this sector. The positive news this week was that the government of our country and the Minister of Interior, Risikko, told us that they will be coming to the supplementary budget next year with an additional EUR 10 million to secure the number of policemen and police women next year. Otherwise, we would have had the situation of a reduction in the number of police officers at the end of this year, but this information, which Mr Risiko told us about the extra 10 million to keep the police at work, will ensure that, even after the turn of the year, we will be able to guarantee the work of these 200 temporary police officers who would otherwise have been leaving the police. Mr President, we simply cannot afford to compromise internal security. From time to time, it seems that there is money available for certain things, such as Winterfell or the cost of immigration. But this internal security, which worries everyone in Finland, is something that seems to be a little difficult to find money for, and that is why I would like to thank the Prime Minister, who came here, for now returning to this number of police officers with that supplementary government proposal. Nothing but a happy upcoming Father's Day Weekend for all of us!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u7	Madam President! In Finland, cooperation between the authorities traditionally works well in international comparisons, but these shortcomings are always found. When I look at this government proposal, I think this is necessary from a practical point of view. In other words, this will promote access rights between the various authorities — rescue and emergency services authorities, as well as the Border Guard authorities — in order to improve access to information, in particular for rescue authorities, on the registers for which information is needed for rescue operations. In this respect, this flexibility in the exchange of information is needed in the performance of the operational tasks of the Emergency Response Centre Agency and the authorities, in particular in support of urgent tasks. This is important from the point of view of rescue services, police services and social and health services authorities. This also takes account of this so-called 'precautionary information', which is sensitive information. In other words, personal data sensitive to safety at work are stored in the Emergency Response Centre Information System, such as information on criminal acts, health status, and the kind of hints that are used in a police operation. Of course, it is very important for citizens' fundamental rights to be regulated carefully and not to have access to this information by people who should not have access to it. But the fact that safety at work is guaranteed for all those authorities,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u8	Madam President! When talking about emergency centre activities, the reform of the legislation and the construction of organisations must also take very careful account of the needs of citizens, i.e. those that are at the root of this whole operation. In the case of emergency centres, people's needs are precisely that information is made available and that the necessary assistance is also in the right place at the right time. Changes are constantly taking place when there are mergers of municipalities, for example. There have also been problems with the change of addresses, and help has not found the right place. We also have very easy data gaps. For example, when there are large power outages, networks no longer work, cell phones do not play, links may not play. This should also be taken into account when far-reaching reforms are being made. It is not enough just for that organisation to be as fit as it is, but it must work from the citizen to the emergency centre and then back. There is probably also a need for legislation to look at the interface where when a call comes from a citizen to an emergency centre, the emergency centre has no choice but to send help there. In many cases it may be that it is not the kind of aid that requires, for example, the presence of an ambulance, but that it should be able to be checked in some way, by other means. We currently have a situation in medical care where these alarms through the emergency centre have increased dramatically. Even the study of why this has happened is in order, and it must be carefully noted that it may be that resources go a little wrong. It is ultimately also a question of exploiting resources. In other words, the reforms must also take into account the technical functionality. Unfortunately, it is very often the case that there are serious shortcomings and problems, particularly in the state information system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u9	Mr President! Mr Rossi broadened the debate slightly beyond this initiative, but on an important point, namely that it really is essential for the citizen to be able to contact the emergency centre and the emergency centres quickly and that the necessary assistance, whether it be an ambulance or a fire truck or a police car, will arrive quickly at the time of need. And here, of course, legislation and systems are of great importance, but I am saying that at the moment the actual point of pain is the resources, that is, the fact that we actually have the resources of emergency centres in the years to come, so that there will simply be enough staff there to respond to these calls, enough skilled staff, so that it can be helped, the delays in calls will not increase and the help will be quickly received. In this respect, I am still concerned about the frameworks on which we rely, because, if they are to be implemented as such, the operating conditions of the emergency centres and emergency centres will unfortunately fail in the coming years, and that will require this resource review, hopefully in the next framework negotiations, with great care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u10	Mr President! Especially in rural areas, it is of the utmost importance that the emergency centre official who responds there to the "emergency centre" knows the place where assistance is being ordered. The fewer of these points, the less this local knowledge becomes. What is very annoying is that in the same place, in the same area there may be more addresses that are the same address, although they are in a different municipality, and it causes this kind of confusion, and this is the kind of thing that should be paid attention to. But, above all, I would like to say what Mr Rossi said. He pointed out that it should be possible to call the emergency centre at the time of the call to determine whether an ambulance was needed or not. I guess that's the way it is. But the second, where the even greater point is, where the peasant’s mind should be used, is that when an ambulance arrives, for example, when the arm is broken or sprained and a child is put into it, then the ambulance goes away and tells the person that now you have to go to the central hospital or health center, order a taxi or take your own car. For example, in Vaasa, we have an ambulance driving in front of us and a taxi chasing him with an injured person or himself. In my opinion, this is such incomprehensibleness. That we should think a little about what is economically worthwhile and what makes sense when it comes to peasants. I understand that if an ambulance is needed elsewhere in the meantime, but when an ambulance has to go two kilometres to the station, one might think that what is worthwhile, which is not. Is it worthwhile for an ambulance to go there and come back empty and the patient to take a taxi and drive a taxi to the hospital and all these will be replaced separately?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u11	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u12	Madam President! There have been numerous speeches in the Chamber on the funding, tasks and future of the public radio during this parliamentary term, which is why I thought I should now be quite brief, even because the sitting is short and many representatives are starting a large committee. In order to make clear to all the representatives in this Chamber at the latest, this will of the Yle parliamentary working party will make the following statement to the Government's proposal 146: "In accordance with the unanimous proposal of the parliamentary working group on the role and funding of the YLE, the Government will immediately return the funding of YLE outside the framework of the government's finances."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u13	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. The proposal for a statement made by the trout. I have to say that I am very surprised that this situation can now be the case. In this Chamber we have once wondered, with regard to the issue of broadcasting, that when the parliamentary working party had completed its work with honour — and that was a good and important work, which in a way made the future of Yle predictable and thus — and together it was agreed that the Yle Fund should be explicitly outside the spending limits from now on, it is incomprehensible why the government first records that it is only in the next spending limits debate that this will come back to this. And now it is clear from this report by the committee that, according to the report that has been received, it would in fact only be back in the autumn budget process in a year's time. So the question now is what is at stake, because all good manners and parliamentary tradition involve parliamentary cooperation being respected. Arto Satonen, the chairman of the group, is here, and the group did a good job, which I have thanked many times here and said that it itself saved the future of Yle. And now, on such a matter of very principle, which was jointly agreed upon, the government suddenly fails to comply with the work of the parliamentary working party. That is why I hope that, at the latest, now that we have asked it many times, then, ladies and gentlemen of the government, please tell us what is going on and ask the government to take action and change this situation immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u14	Mr President! Yes, the decisions taken democratically in the parliamentary committee must also be respected in this Chamber. It is quite incomprehensible that this issue has not been dealt with. If a little is recalled, what was decided by the Satonen Committee: that was the decision, among other things, to freeze the index for 2017-2018. Fortunately, no decisions have been taken since 2019. I can personally say that I am not in favour of these index freezes. In my opinion, they could be detrimental to journalism and free communication and objectivity. But I accept these decisions because they have been taken in democratic order, they have been taken parliamentaryly, and they must then be respected. I am now wondering enormously that the transfer of Excessive Finance cannot be managed and put outside the spending limits, just as has already been agreed together. Why? Why is it that people want to drag and shake things like this and not bring them to the finish line? If we can move outside the spending limits, then it will be a guarantee that we will have good, credible, objective journalism in the Finnish Broadcasting System from now on, as has been the case up to now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u15	Madam President! It is quite true that, in accordance with the unanimous proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Working Group on the role and funding of the YLE, the funding of YLE should be outside the spending limits of the central government, transferred there outside the spending limits. When the Committee on Transport and Communications dealt with this issue, this issue was also raised there, and according to a report received by the committee, this is to be done in connection with the preparation of the 2018 State Budget and in connection with the budget. Of course, why it is not here today raises questions. Why is it not in next year's budget outside the budget, of course, raises questions. It is probably because of the Ministry of Finance, and would it be because the framework for the coming years, both next year and the coming years, has been decided in March and this working group of Mr Satose has given its unanimous proposal in June? There may also be an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u16	Mr President! I know that it is not very appropriate for the Vice-President to speak here, but I thought I should use it now when it came to the central issue of the working group that I led, which was therefore parliamentary, in which all the parties were represented. I will not comment on the timetable for this, but I would like to say quite frankly that it was quite clear that it was decided that Yle's funding would continue to be outside the spending limits. That was a completely unambiguous solution, and I do not think there is any cross-cutting word about it. Since, according to the information I have received, all the other proposals made by the working group are moving forward, I think it is very logical that this issue also goes forward. As I said, with what timetable, I will not comment on it, but the solution in itself is quite unambiguous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u17	Mr President! I was very pleased to hear the chairman of the working group, Mr Satose, say that this is moving forward. The fact that YLE is independent of the government’s current political policies is of the utmost importance. That is why it is a matter of principle that the funding of YLE is outside the spending limits. It continues to ensure that there is no need to think, for example, about making journalistic decisions, about what the government thinks about this, which then decides on the funding for next year. That is why I am also very pleased that this proposal for a statement has been made, and I will support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u18	Madam President! It was good to hear from the chairman of the working group, Mr Satos, that this has been unambiguous and not a cross-word word, and this must be implemented. It was important. It was important to hear. Now the question, President, is about the timetable which we have also asked. So, in my opinion, if such a matter is decided jointly and unequivocally by the parliamentary working party, the government will have the full opportunity to take this decision immediately, as early as this autumn in connection with this budget. I do not understand and do not accept the fact that this is being postponed for a year now. I believe that there should be a further debate here in Parliament on this issue of the spending limits. We will then have a final meeting of the budget in December and it will be adopted, so in this context I would ask that by then the government parties contact each other so that this change can be made possible, because, Mr President, this is not going to be a joint decision and then not immediately implemented. Then it is important and it was important to hear that in any case this is unambiguous. Of course, there could be no other kind of response to this, as this has been agreed jointly by the parliamentary working group. To this end, I would like to have a comment from the government parties, if possible, that it would be appropriate for Parliament to continue to address this issue in the context of this budget, which we are dealing with here at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u19	Mr President! When we changed the funding base for Yle last season, I would remind you that the purpose of this was to have a certain kind of work peace for Yle, not always having to be nervous about how much money comes and how it comes from and where it comes from. After all, we lived in a time when there was still a TV licence fee and TV licence fees were used to finance. Well, it is true that the financing of the Finnish Broadcasting Company improved pretty nicely when we then got the Yle-Tax, which, in my opinion, is a very reasonable tax. It is one of the few taxes that is reasonable and which treats all people fairly equally — except, of course, it could also raise this High Tax at the top, but it is not going to happen now. But now that this funding is not available outside the spending limits, is this the case that somewhere has already been decided that this issue will not be raised until 2018, as has just been mentioned here? That means that, in fact, Mr Viitanen, this goes two years ahead, and it is quite an unreasonable time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-11-ps-113.u22	Madam President! It is very good that Vice-President Satone, as chairman of that parliamentary working group, also spoke on this. This is, of course, exceptional in this Chamber, but it is very good in this context that it was also very clear. As a Member of Parliament in the centre, I believe that all the parties in the government have committed themselves to this unambiguous and unanimous decision of the parliamentary working party 100%, if not more than 100%. I believe that, and I also believe that this transfer of the funding of YLE outside the framework of central government finances will also be made clear that this is possible. As soon as it is possible, it will also be carried out. I think we'll find out. This is also being taken to government ministers for information and that message is being passed on. I hope that the Ministry of Finance will also find out. This is the unequivocal and unanimous decision of its parliamentary working party. I hope it will be implemented as quickly as possible. But, as I said, we in the Committee on Transport and Communications received this report, which is now included in the committee's report.
