ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u2	Mr President! It is important to monitor as closely as possible the flow of money directed towards the activities of parties and candidates in order to make possible links transparent. If a trade union movement considers it appropriate to support a demarcator in elections with tax-deductible membership funds of its members, the voters should know this at the time of the vote. If a candidate for a convention receives a subsidy from a large company, this must also be transparent and can be evaluated by the voters. There is only a little more than a period of time for the great election allowance and the so-called country's way, Mr President! Every time something is tightened up, there are new ways of circumventing the regulations. I would like to draw attention here to the circumvention of electoral funding through party associations. Turun Sanomat reported less than a week ago that the National Audit Office caught the SDP's Finnish district and local associations last September in violation of the obligation to report contributions to the Party Act. [President MariaLohela : I'm sorry,representativeMäkelä,now a microphone with some coverage,in July. (Department :NoInfluence! — Laughter)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u5	Madam President! It is good that we have made decisive reforms, both in terms of party funding and election funding. However, it has been regrettable to note that there are still certain shortcomings or omissions in reporting obligations. It would be extremely important for these to now be taken very seriously by all parties and by all the political players and, in fact, to be regarded as a matter of honour for all the announcements to be made in due time. One of the things that is still obscure in all of this is, in fact, the announcements of access to finance for municipal decision-makers. For example, the reporting obligation in our municipalities does not target all the members of the board and other candidates, and in fact they make a great deal of decisions and political decisions that would also be necessary for transparent financial supervision, and I personally would like to see the election funding obligation extended to this side as well. One thing, of course, when we talked about different funding, is that, at the same time, when different campaign ceilings have been proposed, we should also find out that some parties, for example, receive significant input from people who are also paid for the so-called campaigning or campaigning, and the transparency of this type of funding or support should be given particular attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u6	Madam President! The party laws lay down binding provisions for parties and party associations to promote financial transparency. The National Audit Office supervises the support provided by the Party Act, the expenditure and financial reporting of the election campaign, and compliance with the provisions on the drawing up and transmission of related documents in the activities of the supervised entities. Knowing the whole and the history of election funding, one may well think that there is reason to monitor. During 2015, up-to-date notifications of contributions received by parties, party associations and local communities were announced in the party funding notification register for a total amount of more than EUR 3.2 million. How much did you miss? No one can be sure of that. As in previous years, the National Audit Office found shortcomings in its audit report on party funding. So nothing's changed. In recent years, however, the control of election funding has been moving in the right direction, but much remains to be done. For example, the National Audit Office does not have the possibility to audit the accounts of local party associations. You can ask, with a good conscience, why not? Should the activities of associations not be as transparent and transparent as possible? At the moment, it is still not clear how many electoral declarations have been made by local associations. The inspection of so-called local communities has also been problematic. Often only after the audit has been carried out has the local community made a more precise announcement about the funding of the elections. A certain trickle in election funding is also still common. Some move small sums in such a way that the State Audit Office cannot be sure that the rules which are subject to interpretation have been complied with. In its report, the Audit Office points out that all accounting officers are required to keep their accounts up-to-date according to the Accounting Act. However, the audit showed that one district association had no accounting records for two years and that its financial statements had not been signed. I believe this is a matter of preliminary investigation. Madam President! The Party Act includes provisions on support for party associations and party communities. According to the law, support should be given in principle to all payments made in the form of money, goods, services or other means of payment. Provisions on restrictions on the receipt of aid have also been included in the Party Act. The Party Act also provides for the transmission of different data to the National Audit Office. At certain points, the National Audit Office may, at the risk of a fine, oblige the supervisory authority to fulfil its obligations. I believe that this possibility should also be used more actively. It should be self-evident that, unless the failure to provide information to the State Audit Authority has been sanctioned, the provision of such information is not a matter of course. If this had been sanctioned, we could sometimes get close to the truth in election funding. It cannot be that when the inspection is closed, it is only then that information is sent to the person requesting it. In my view, this is only done with professional criminals: they can only admit what they did when they have been caught on the basis of watertight evidence — and we are not professional criminals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u7	Madam President! It is extremely important that electoral funding is transparent, transparent and monitored. The last time we discussed this subject here a few weeks ago, this issue of the campaign ceiling, which I am in favour of, was quite strikingly raised, because it is certainly the case that today democracy is more important than the power of money and the time for great scales, some campaigns in terms of the euro have now increasingly risen. I welcomed the debate that was taking place here. For example, it was a good thing that Mr Zyskowicz did not see it as impossible to come back to this idea of a campaign ceiling. This is also what Tarasti said at the time, and it was, of course, a pity that the then government did not take this up. President! I would now like to express the hope that, now that these issues are now before Parliament and in the committee, the committee will be able to return to this issue of the campaign ceiling and, together, actually start to think about whether legislation can be improved in this regard too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u8	Mr President! In response to Mr Viitanen's speech, I have indeed said that, when electoral money legislation is further developed, this idea of a campaign cap is certainly still on the table and it is not quite an impossible idea. However, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that restricting the candidate's ability to use his own or other funds for his campaign will never allow all candidates to be on the same track in the election situation. We, each candidate, have different qualities — either because of work history or even because of magnificent appearances or anything — that affect our chances of elections. That is what I was trying to say and what I am trying to say here is that there is only one aspect that is being tackled. It may be that for someone, this fundraising is the kind of success factor that will enable them to compete even if they are familiar with TV.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u9	Madam President! Mr Viitanen, I have to say that this campaign ceiling itself does not solve this problem to any extent in my view. Now, if you look at the MPs who took part in the last parliamentary elections, there are a number of people who spent more than EUR 50,000 on the campaign and still did not get elected, even though they have been sitting here before, so you may not be able to buy those votes, no matter how much money there is, but you must also have some sort of other message for those voters. What should be developed here is the transparency as to where the money comes from. However, if a campaign ceiling is to be adjusted, then I think there should be a campaign ceiling for these donations: how many donations can be made for this campaign, and how much money must be spent on your own. But this is not the biggest problem. The problem is that we still do not have enough transparency in this spending. We get a lot of such money from trade unions, for example, which are not all announced because they are nowhere to be seen, they come in the form of work and come in many others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u10	Madam President! Personally, I'm a little clammy about campaign ceiling thinking. I personally see the more important thing is that the funding is transparent, and I myself have suggested that an electoral declaration system at accounting level, where it would be clearly visible, could be effective, and we have a donation ceiling and others. Now, in fact, the problem, Mr Viitanen, is that we have in law that non-conventional campaign work should be opened and reported. For example, Helsingin Sanomat has now mentioned situations where trade union workers have been involved in campaign work, and even if this type should be reported, this is not reported. So they get paid from another side when they are campaigning for either a party or a candidate. What is your response, Mr Viitanen, to this: in what way could this be addressed, and do you agree to this type of round of electoral funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u11	Mr President! As I have said very often here, I am in favour of transparency and transparency, and I am also in favour of developing this legislation. In particular, this campaign ceiling seems to me to be a very important part of this, because we cannot deny, Mr Heinonen, that sometimes the money is too much to solve. It must also be remembered that not all candidates have access to business finance or anything else, and I therefore believe that it would be human and wise for all of us and for a functioning, transparent, open democracy that the campaign ceiling would be. And I would ask you to remind me: this was also put forward by Tarasti. I think that there is quite a lot of prestige at stake at the time, and that is why I have expressed the hope that we can return together to this negotiating table and start discussing if we can develop this legislation as a whole. Then we really need to think about all the other development needs in this context, but I think that the campaign ceiling is something that we should take up now, because we are here now in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u12	Madam President! It's just that the control of the campaign ceiling is extremely difficult. Another candidate, as Mrs Zyskowicz pointed out, gets a front page picture, three big things in the evening paper, and the other one has to buy this visibility with a newspaper ad, which means he has to spend money. One candidate receives a barn wall by the highway or by the railway, and the other has to buy a similar spot on Clear Channel. How would these work, then, how would that cover picture of the Evening Sanomat or the evening newspaper front page and the three-opener profile thing be counted in this campaign ceiling? And you did not answer, Mr Viitanen, whether you support the fact that, for example, trade union workers are paying wages and receiving voluntary work for some parties and for some candidates. In what way should this be opened in these financial declarations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u13	Madam President! Mr Niikko said earlier that a campaign of EUR 50000 would not be able to buy a seat for himself, either from the municipal council or from this Parliament. I'm sure that's a fact. I agree with that. But neither should people's ability to influence the campaign be limited by the fact that campaigns are tilted from the campaign, the total amount of campaigns is increasing. This is a clear threat to democracy. That is why I am in favour, like Mr Zyskowicz, of the additions and reflections on the campaign ceiling, and, in order to achieve this campaign ceiling, good and preparatory work must be done, because there are more dimensions to this issue that have just come up. Above all, we need common rules of the game. Here, Mr Heinonen also referred to different rules of the game. This is not a problem or opportunity for one party or trade unions or foundations or others, but it is important for the credibility of the entire Finnish political system that we have common, clear, transparent rules of play.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u14	Mr President! Representative Viitanen: Uusimaa County, which is quite extensive and heterogeneous — once mathematically I calculated how much there must be in the campaign budget if the candidate is from Espoo or Vantaa, where it is generally possible to collect the required number of votes in one municipality. Almost all other candidates in Uusimaa must collect from the territory of 10 municipalities, possibly 25 municipalities, with a ratio of 1:55, i.e. five times the amount of money. But I would be interested to hear how the campaign ceiling would work in such a situation, so that equality, what Viitanen stands for, would be achieved. Instead, I have long wondered how the tax-free money that the trade union movement receives will be channelled into election campaigns, and Mrs Viitanen was not at all concerned about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u15	Mr President! It is very important, of course, that election campaigns are monitored, but there are many of us here who have not received much election grants and, for example, have come here on their own loan.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u18	Mr President! Right here, how these announcements can be at different prices: They just can. In some local newspaper it costs EUR 69, while then in Hesar it costs EUR 6900 in exactly the same size. That's just the way it is. In addition to that, there are also quite a lot of different agreements that if a certain amount is indicated, it will also receive a certain amount of discounts. That's one thing. But then there's another thing. When we were talking about magazines, we were talking about newspaper articles and advertisements, so we can't compare them now, for God's sake. Different articles in the press are part of freedom of speech. Advertising is a purchased advertising space in a magazine and has nothing to do with each other. When a newspaper article is made, there must be substance in that article, and it is done about it, not that someone is a candidate somewhere. I do not believe that either the Eve magazine or the Maija magazine — or whatever they are — writes that he is now alone in running here, vote for him, but there is some content in that case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u19	Madam President! I understand the debate on the campaign ceiling, because I too am horrified by the tilting of these campaigns and the related arms race. However, I would like to say that what is essential is this donation ceiling. It is precisely to prevent one person from giving one candidate unhealthy large donations, the size of which could appear to create an addiction between the donor and the representative. When Mr Viitanen said that not everyone is good at collecting campaign grants, they are not, but, for example, not everyone, Mr Viitanen, has a long parliamentary career as you and I do, not everyone has such publicity behind them, such as Mr Alatalo and Mrs Wallinheim, and so on. So, once again, the candidates have different interests over each other, and they cannot be removed on this campaign roof. Then, Madam President, I did not hear Mr Viitanen answer this question to him. Did anyone else hear me?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u20	Mr President! I have said many times that we can together see what all the development needs are. I am open to all development, as I have said, and this is quite clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u23	Madam President! A clear and justified ceiling should be set for the overall funding of the election campaigns, i.e. a cap on the campaign. In the most populous constituency of Uusimaa, this could be EUR 60,000 in the Parliamentary elections. For other constituencies, the same principle would be used, but the number of persons entitled to vote would be taken into account, with a view to scaling down the ceiling. For example, a good campaign ceiling in national European elections would be EUR 100000, with EUR 20000 in the largest municipalities in municipal elections, which would also be scaled downwards on the basis of the number of persons entitled to vote. In addition, mandatory prior notification of election funding should be introduced instead of the current voluntary one. Mr President! I have just submitted a written question to the minister in question on this matter, namely the mandatory prior notification and the campaign ceiling for election funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u24	Mr President! This theme is once again the subject of a good debate, as it was a few weeks ago. The real steak here is that unfortunately election funding has increased from election to election and election campaign prices are only increasing. Yes, there must be a change in this development, and that is why it was very good that Mr Viitanen raised this issue in this debate about the campaign ceiling. I would support that myself, because it would also send the signal that the pin has been reached and that we should be able to manage with less money, and it would certainly also send a signal that the candidates should also think a little bit about what the money would do, and it would certainly bring such efficiency to that candidate work. And what has also been said here in many speeches: yes, I am very much in favour of these common rules of play, that everyone must play with the same rules of play and that they must be open, whatever the donation is, it has to do with any donor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u25	Madam President! The rules of the game are: the taxpayer also interprets labour input as a monetary advantage, just as the tax office has done for decades. On the other hand, in support measures for election funding, the labour input of the trade union movement, which is also paid for the same period of time, is completely exempt from taxation. Are you, Mr Viitanen, prepared to correct this also?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u26	President! As I said — for the third time — I am prepared to go through all these things and correct all the shortcomings that arise. And, as President, I would like to reiterate, I hope that this campaign ceiling will also be included in this further development. In other words, I have only put forward the idea, which I think is wise at this stage, that now that these matters have come to Parliament in two points and they are going to committee, I would like the committee to be able to take these development needs into consideration in its own deliberations — precisely what we all have to do here — and to ask ourselves whether we can go back to this issue of the campaign, for example in this context. Let me remind you once again that Tarasti has presented this and the idea is wise. I have told you the reasons before, and they are that this power of money has become very big in today's election campaigns. As has been said, we can't create that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u27	Mr President! Yes, Mr. Viitanen, you're going around like a cat with a hot oatmeal. Answer the question directly:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u30	Madam President! Congressman Heinonen is starting to pursue a witch hunt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u33	Mr President! I do not understand the benefits of such a prior notification if its prior notification does not have to be in any way proportionate to what the outcome is. If it were made compulsory, as some Members have now suggested, and someone announces that his campaign is 5,000, and that is 50,000, what is the significance of such advance notice? Then we should prefer it to be real-time, full-time and up-to-date all the time, enabling us to follow what is happening in the campaign. Personally, I am genuinely concerned that the boards, in fact at municipal level, make a lot of decisions — such as building sites in central business areas in cities, municipalities, big roads, decisions are often made at municipal level in boards — that it is important to know where, for example, these people have received their election funding, who are in favour of, for example, obtaining a business place for a particular person. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u34	Mr President! Indeed, there has been talk of these pre-notifications. I very much welcome the fact that this debate is taking place. It would be very important for the electorate to know in real time what donations have been made. For example, in our People’s Party very little contributions are received from various interest groups. In fact, I prefer not to take contributions from acquaintances and very small contributions from people just because I do not want to be a purchased representative. I also want my constituents to know whose representative I really am before the elections. I think it would be a very good idea to have a compulsory declaration before the start of the preliminary elections, and it must then be consistent with what will be put there. It will then be known whose representative is involved as to whether there is a front in the background. For example, the SDP had a very large number of trade union contributions, and the citizens do not necessarily know this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u35	Now we are running out of time, but I would like to ask whether Mr Viitanen wishes to speak. — Yes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u36	President! Yes, I do, because this debate started with the fact that I raised these campaign ceilings, and I also pointed out that I think it is very necessary that we should now go over this issue together, among other things, and all the other development needs, so that we can even strengthen and make this system more transparent. After all, we could also take the issue of party funding more widely. We know from public opinion that this Soin Foundation of the Finns Party receives party support in the form of rent and other things. I think that all these things could be brought up, put the cat on the table, and go and look into these things. Although we are now trying to have a debate here, I believe that the end result is that we are reasonably in agreement, friends, that there is a need for development. I therefore call, President, for the committee to raise, among other things, this issue of the campaign ceiling at its own reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-26-ps-15.u37	This debate will then be resumed at another time. The matter is now suspended because of the meeting of the large committee.
