ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. The debate will begin, Minister Berner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u3	Mr President! Reducing the administrative burden is a change in line with the Government’s deregulation targets, which significantly removes barriers to entry. The proposal estimates that a reduction in regulation would in future have an impact not only on contract customers but also on individual consumer prices. After all, last year Posti's net sales decreased, but the result excluding non-recurring items turned to profit. Business income was improved by the abolition of international freight business, the increase in demand for parcel delivery services and measures to improve production efficiency, which have managed to make savings according to the objectives. Paper mail has decreased significantly since the digital age. In addition to reading more and more magazines in electronic form, traditional letter mail has also decreased. Consumers are no longer sending letters or cards, and paper billing is slowly becoming electronic. It is quite clear that the decline in demand will have an impact on the change in the service structure. Traditional mail is already involved in many different business activities, such as cold-equipped van beds and elderly people’s food deliveries. Traditional postal activities are currently decreasing by around 10 % per year and now account for approximately 40 % of the Posti Group's turnover. Mr President! According to the Government’s proposal, the promotion of competition in the postal market would thus enable better, cheaper and better quality postal services for consumers in the future. In the current Postal Act, the state company has obligations, and competitors do not have much to do with it. Now that the law is being changed and competition is being fully opened up, who has obligations, and does anyone have obligations? What worries me here is what happens to peripheral regions when competition is open. When money is given in easier cities, does anyone still serve in the countryside? Despite these difficulties, the delivery of mail must continue to be comprehensive in the basic services of society. Therefore, the responsibility for the passage of mail must remain with the government. Although the changing world is facing changes in Postik, its operations must continue to be customer-oriented. The inhabitants of sparsely populated areas must also continue to receive their mail at a reasonable cost at least five days a week on an equal basis. Now that many provincial newspapers have moved into their own distribution, the rural gravel is driven with the post office in a row. This is neither effective nor wise, but cooperation and creative thinking are needed. I'm sure the mail will still be an important provider in the countryside. In order to make the service more cost-effective, should the Postal Act allow for simultaneous delivery of letter distribution and, for example, home service? Although savings need to be sought, rural areas cannot be allowed to empty because of the lack of services. Some good savings have come to light, such as the abandonment of floor-by-story distribution. Small blocks of flats and terraced houses already have long rows of mailboxes — why can't this be the case in all blocks of flats? Another concern is whether the domestic postal service can be maintained. In addition to opening up the market to large international companies, Anttila, the new partner of the post office, has moved to German ownership.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u4	Madam President! When Minister Berner is here, thank you for taking off with this big reform work. It is a whole, and one thing that worries me is whether the post will be distributed throughout Finland on five days in the future, or whether it is intended that Posti will continue to distribute five days and that others can only be distributed for two or three days. It would be interesting to hear an answer from the Minister. And then, of course, it is our specialty: it is a great service that the mail comes dry on the floor of the top floor of the apartment building, but this is not happening anywhere else in Europe. Should we at least think about the construction of new blocks of flats to enable EU-wide sub-detached distribution? It would be one step in ensuring that letter distribution is secured throughout Finland at an affordable price.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u5	There are now more representatives here who are holding debates and standing in the halls during the debatation. I would ask you to move on, continue those debates elsewhere, and there will be no doubt about who has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u6	Mr President! After all, the post office has almost 400 years of history as a citizen's servant in Finland. I was allowed to participate in the 2004 reform of the postal service law, which was revolutionary. The competition was opened in principle, but it was opened in such a way that cream peeling was not accepted. At the time, I remember that the Committee on Communications was unanimous, that the government parties and the opposition were in complete agreement. Now, at this first stage, we are not yet taking a position on these distribution obligations, but can you nevertheless tell and promise Parliament that this equal service of citizens, five days of distribution, consideration of sparsely populated areas in the delivery of mail, will be maintained until the end, as was the case in the Committee on Communications in 2004, when it was unanimous?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u7	Mr President! I was also doing that postal law in 2004 and the question then was that cream peelers would not take over the market, and this is, of course, quite a valid question. On the other hand, you can say that, at this rate, the rural areas seem to be running out of Posti services in any case, if you go there, that e-mail and social media and digital magazines reduce distribution, and something needs to be done. In that sense, this reform, which will now come up in the autumn, is inevitable. What we are dealing with here is, of course, this reduction in the administrative burden and the introduction of this administrative system into the notification system and, indeed, it is only now that a larger reform is being prepared. But I would also like to ask Minister Berner how we will in future also guarantee that Posti will be able to operate in the competition field where perhaps private companies prefer to share where there is a lot of population and how we will guarantee that Post will also operate at least three days a week in that rural, sparsely populated area.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u8	Madam President! The speeches already made in the debate are very relevant and relevant, but I would like to ask Mr Berner if you have wondered whether, by combining the activities, the obligations can actually be transferred to those companies that come into this field, because it is clear that those companies that come to this market operate at the borders of their competitiveness so that they want to enter undersized collective agreements and thus seek the benefit of the market which is managed by Post itself under its own obligation. Can we really make it compulsory that cream peeling is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u9	Madam President! Minister, now that there has been a problem with the fact that the mail has not arrived on time but has, for example, brought invoices to people in the sparsely populated area so that the due date of the invoices has already reached before that bill to that mailbox hits, so if this kind of development continues already in this situation, then who will be responsible for the fact that the customer will not be able to receive the document or invoice submitted by Posti by the date he should have? Until now, we are used to the fact that if we put it in the mail today, it will be in the box tomorrow or the day after tomorrow at the latest, if we do not take the weekend into account, but if it takes two weeks to get the mail, what will it be in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u10	Madam President! As has been heard from many speakers, this abolition of the licensing system may have an impact on the universal service provider. And if competition in urban areas becomes more intense and the universal service operator is the only postal company that has to deliver mail also to difficult areas and sparsely populated areas, now the opening-up of the market would probably lead to a transfer of part of the service for large letter items from the universal service provider to other postal companies. If this happens, it would lead to a loss of volume for the universal service provider. I would like to ask the Minister: How does this affect the post office, and what does the Minister think will happen if Posti only has unprofitable private letters and the distribution of the outlying region? If so, who will pay for these in the future if Posti does not receive sufficient revenue from other activities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u11	Mr President! This is a good place to go. It is well known that opening up Posti to competition is a very sensitive issue because unprofitable services and profitable services are easily hit by a collision course. This, of course, is where this public service obligation or universal service and its continued existence as part of this package are key. In fact, I would like to ask briefly and succinctly: how does the Minister estimate that this proposal on the table will affect postal transport in the archipelago?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u12	Mr President! We in East Lapland have now had a couple of weeks of interesting time in Savukoski. In fact, many houses have been tense at night, which comes first: Ten News or Post? Today, Posti has indeed gone through procedures which, for example, in our region have gone towards trying to do all the work with its own staff, and this has certainly not been a success at the moment. In our region, mail means that both letters and magazines are distributed in the same distribution. Hopefully it will also continue that we will have them even once a day. Furthermore, the post office has no competitors now and certainly no competitors in the future. Now I ask the Minister how, in the face of increased competition, to ensure that: In these outermost regions, at least this minimum obligation can be met by the post office?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u13	Mr President! The flow of mail is currently talking to citizens and businesses every day. I think it is up to Parliament to know why the mail is so often late and the management of the Post does not fix the situation. After all, a state company must serve the people and businesses, and the basic task of the Postal Act is to distribute mail, but for this The post office hasn't cared in two years. My suspicion is that self-inflicted problems in the statutory task will be used as a justification for reshaping tasks. The post office has said that it wants to reduce its five-day distribution obligation, and I do not think that Parliament should agree to this. Otherwise, we will not have trains or mail running in Finland following a central-wheeled government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u14	Mr President! This is a good and topical subject precisely because, due to previous decisions, the competition in postal services has been opened up and is already being seen in the current situation of Posti, and it is unable to carry out its tasks because Posti has more of these obligations than other companies. These parcel services and others already show this very strongly. I would like to ask the Minister specifically about this increase in fair competition, what we want to take forward. After all, competition is good in itself, and it usually brings prices down and helps citizens to choose the alternatives to services, but then it comes to companies with this bureaucracy and everything else. It must be fair, then, that these obstacles in themselves, as far as this business is concerned, are at the same level for everyone and not as they are now for Posti to be particularly large and for others to get easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u15	Madam President! Mr Taavitsainen said that we have been following this situation for several years, which is happening with regard to the Post, and that there have also been ministers of the SDP there during the opening of this Post competition and so forth. That it doesn't just go downtown. But I think it is good that, across party boundaries, we are concerned about how, indeed, Posti is able to fulfil the universal service obligation and how it could also be made more flexible and easier. I think that Mr Heinonen has made a good point on this issue of apartment buildings, for example: is it necessary for mail to be delivered separately to each door, or would it be so European that it is there in front of the houses in boxes, and this flexibility in that way? In that sense, it must also be said that if the magazine comes late in the evening to the countryside, would it be that even with the support of society there should be an opportunity to read the digital magazine so that people can read the magazine in the morning before going to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u16	Mr President! It is extremely important that Parliament now sends out a clear signal that postal services should be secured on an equal footing throughout the country. When these changes have been made in the past, competition has been opened up, it has been very important that private operators do not get access to cream peeling, because when this happens, it will undoubtedly mean that Post will fade away, because in any case it will have to deal with these general obligations throughout Finland. We must stick to this, and the starting point is that five days a week the mail passes. North Karelia has been extremely upset over the last year about the plans Posti has had. After all, there have been no permanent post offices in the whole province since last February. This has caused a great deal of concern among the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u17	Madam President! Many times there have been concerns about the maintenance of equality among citizens, equal services throughout the country and how we actually consider Finland as a whole to be inhabited in the future. These are the big questions we are faced with once again. One example was VR’s operations, rail transport, public transport: as it falls, people will have to move closer to services, closer to growth centres — as the services fade, disappear, cease to exist. I would have asked Minister Berner: has there been a broader study of the fact that since the beginning of the millennium, if it were to be calculated that more than 8,000 workers had a reduction in the number of Post Office employees, then there must also be some kind of impact on the mail collection? And the second question: how will this obligation to distribute be maintained, because it is extremely important that the mail is delivered? There have already been worrying comments from all over Finland, or even from those in Lapland, that the mail will not pass, even if it should and from it there is a universal service obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u18	Mr President! However, if I have understood correctly, there is no decision on rail transport at this point. I would like to ask how, now that we complete this earlier decision to open up competition, we will ensure that we have the Finnish Post in the future, because postal services have changed so radically and there is already competition on the package side, so the letter side no longer exists, so this whole structure has changed so much. How is it guaranteed that we have a Finnish Post?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u19	Minister Berner, three minutes, then we will continue this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u20	Madam President! It is precisely in this proposal that the competition that has already been opened up can now be managed equally. The post itself has taken the view that it is not against competition as long as it is fair and fair, and that is precisely what this amendment to the first stage postal law seeks to achieve. The aim here is also to ensure that new services are created in remote areas. Here, above all, small companies have applied for postal licences, and they are very regional, very much similar to the distribution environment of the regional paper. In the second phase of the Postal Act, a position is to be taken on the distribution obligations and other possibilities for the reform of the Postal Act. In this context, it is also necessary to consider whether there is room for further delivery of mail, such as a representative. Mr Mäkipää reflected in his own speech. In addition, it is also about 5 percent from Posti’s point of view The entire business of the post office. So let us not talk about a significant change for Posti, but, above all, about the activity under the Posti distribution obligation, which today only concerns letters. To the question of who will answer if the mail is late: FICORA is a supervisory authority that then takes and supervises compliance with the Postal Act. Instead, the Ministry of Transport and Communications does not have ownership control of Posti, so from that point of view we do not direct the internal business of Posti, but we are responsible for the functioning of the postal market. From this point of view, my own will is that we have the possibility of new entrepreneurship, that we have the opportunity of local services, that we have the opportunity of regional development, and that we have the opportunity to distribute other mail alongside the newspapers in particular. The fact that we are in any event subject to competition is no longer at this stage in the matter, but is already open to competition in 2011. From my own point of view, the question at this stage of the Postal Act is precisely how it is thought that this market will be created now genuinely possible, first and foremost, for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u21	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u22	Mr President! In recent years, the post office, and its staff in particular, have been the subject of such a stir that, of course, it would have been good here today to have also been the Minister for Ownership Steering. But now, if we look at this first stage, we are going to give up the comprehensive social consideration which the Government has intended, at least until now, to take place. Who will consider this in a broad sense in the future when such a notification procedure comes? Then again, how do we compensate for the five-day distribution obligation so that competition can be genuine? I think we should discuss this, too. But I'm sure the biggest question is the distribution of stage two for five days. I would remind you at this point that every parliamentary group in PAU's Route magazine before the election has said that it is in favour of a five-day distribution. We are already used to the fact that one has been said before the elections and then another has been said after the elections. It would be good to know whether this is still true.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u23	Madam President! Just as Minister Berner said, the Postal Act, which entered into force in 2011, opened up the postal sector to competition. Today, the exercise of postal activities is subject to a licence issued by the Government, which defines those conditions. By now lowering the threshold for entry into the sector, the transition to a non-disclosure system will create the conditions for potential postal companies, including new ones, to start postal activities and enable new services to be created in the future, and that is important. In fact, I would like to put the customer perspective at the heart of this issue, too, that postal services can be secured throughout the country in the future. This government proposal now enables it and new players to enter the sector, and it will also enable postal services to be developed in different forms and new service sectors to be built from it. I believe that this will also increase entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u24	Madam President! Of course, I also want everyone to receive mail every weekday and preferably something more than bills, but it is worth remembering the realities. From 2000 to this year, one third of our letter mail has drowned, from 900 million envelopes to 650 million envelopes, and the amount is still falling. Then, of course, this five-day obligation to distribute to the whole country means that the price of the envelope will be higher and higher. I would like to ask about this equation: what is the cost of this letter, Minister Berner, if all these obligations are kept unchanged — what is everyone’s wish, of course, and what is the cost of a further 200 million letters a year? And, Minister, I would also like you to respond to the fact that if we, the people who live in blocks of flats — and I am one of them — would come to us so much that we would run for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u25	Mr President! Yes, there is a great risk that a normal person will be forgotten behind lofty and fine goals, that his services will be reduced, and not just in remote areas, in sparsely populated areas, in rural areas, as is the case if we give too much space to cream peelers. But, on the one hand, I find it problematic that we should also forget Post's skilled employees. It is not inconsequential that there are skilled people in Posti, and not just anyone can do those jobs. For example, this kind of proximity and familiarity, not only in rural areas, in sparsely populated areas but also in cities, is a significant issue and helps a normal customer. For example, if you have changed, very often the mailman knows little about things. These are things to consider.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u26	Mr President! These are the same things as Mr Kivelä, from here on the opposition side, we are also asking questions. Postal services play an extremely important role for ordinary people: they structure everyday life, bring it a sense of security, five days a week. And we must remember that not all citizens have the capacity or the capacity to use e-mail, for example, when the traditional letter mail has to be received and delivered. Now, the Government has an exceptionally large responsibility to align citizens' equal postal services and the future of this universal service. Now, Minister, I have to ask you, when you mentioned that the aim is that new local entrepreneurs should be able to enter the market in the opening up of markets and, for that purpose, this notification procedure should be introduced, that is to say, whether it makes sense. Are you sure it will secure a functioning market? What harm would it be to carry out a proper ex ante assessment of whether this operator is capable of delivering mail for new operators? Can you, Minister, answer why this preliminary assessment does not exist in this draft law?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u27	Madam President! It was good to hear in that minister's presentation that this package of reform of the postal law does not jeopardise the status of universal service obligations, and I certainly hope that the second stage of the reform of the postal law will not jeopardise the status of universal service obligations either. Of course, through digitalisation and all possible new means, Posti must be developed. I do hope for such flexibility that when we had the closure of Sevettijärvi's post in Lapland too, when the e-mail stopped and a rather large campaign it became, thousands of cards were sent, the e-mail was not quite so flexible that a new e-mail was received or that such an e-booking point would have been obtained. That even such flexibility would wish there were different areas so that we did not have to leave hundreds of kilometres away. And with regard to this digitalisation, I would still have asked, since it is quite the responsibility of the village communities to pull out fibre networks, whether there is any support from the public authorities to ensure that it does not remain the responsibility of the villages.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u28	Mr President! The delivery of mail must be improved and it must live in time, but it must not be the same as the abolition, reduction and forgetfulness of the sparsely populated area. I hope we keep this in mind. If there are new companies, these so-called cream peelers — they will, of course, come to cities where conditions are easier — then the question arises as to whether tax money will be needed in the future to secure the postal services in the sparsely populated area. So can it be that taxpayers' money will be needed in the future to secure this universal service obligation more than before? Now, however, within the Posti Group, it balances the differences and costs of these areas. But I would also like to highlight these working conditions. We must be very careful not to apply for a competitive advantage by trampling on working conditions and wages. Unfortunately, this type of activity has been seen in this distribution of advertisements, and hopefully this unhealthy phenomenon will not expand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u30	Madam President! You often hear the word "cream peelers" used here in the hall. It seems that no one is concerned about cream peelers, although in fact the law is now being built on cream peelers. Among other things, representatives of Heinonen and Kivelä mentioned this as a concern, but the fact that we are opening up government services for private operators is also opening up services for cream peelers. Posti is Finland’s largest employer, over 20,000 employees. So it's not a small post office, it's a huge organization. The State must develop its own operations, including its own companies and services. As the Minister rightly said, this work is being done, but would it not have been wiser, Minister, to bring first of all: The new tasks of the post office as a new logistics company, as a variety of new services here in the hall, before opening this cream peeling for operators who are not yet fully informed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u31	Madam President! I have to say that this proposal that small businesses can also be opened up to joint transport of this kind, that there is more to it than just the delivery of mail, is an old matter. It's been done before. My late father drove in his own homeland, or there in the river valley, along with other rides of mail. If we have local operators who can deliver that mail, that's a good thing. Indeed, the competition was opened up in the postal sector in 2011, and now perhaps even the companies distributing newspapers could handle the delivery of mail. But it's the same question that if the real Post gets those sparsely populated regions now, you don't get so many of those densely populated areas, what kind of land is it? The financial situation of the post office is whether it will then have to be subletted. The second thing is that the post offices themselves have good expertise, but on the other hand, I also have good experience with e-mails: there can be an entrepreneur going to visit this weekend, and a good service has been provided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u32	Mr President! So the key word is fair competition. It has come at the Minister's mouth, and it has come at Posti Oyj's mouth and at our mouth. It is good that there is a common spirit here, as far as I am concerned. We then introduced a reform of the postal service law that we did not approve of cream peeling, but that cream scrubbers would also have to pay compensation for universal service obligations in the event of cream peeling. In this respect, Mr Alatalo and Mr Sarkkinen have pointed out whether they will have to pay for this in the future. I hope that tax money will not be used, but that these cream scrubbers will then pay the universal service compensation to Posti, who would distribute it to sparsely populated areas. I am a person of the old people: I like to open a paper magazine in the morning, I don't open a digital magazine. I'm a 60-year-old man, and how nice it is to read it. You can cut something nice and put it among the memories, a friend's obituary or a politician's good writing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u33	Mr President! Following on from Mrs Wallin's speech, I believe that this is the government's proposal that has been supported and wanted to do so by the press. I would also like to ask Minister Berner how Posti has reacted to this government proposal. I understand that Posti has also been ready for this performance. On the other hand, this proposal allows the universal service provider to develop its activities. What is important, in my view, is that the waiver of the concession system provided for in this proposal does not jeopardise the status of universal service or postal service recipient. I hope, Minister, that the few critical points that Mr Post has raised will be passed on to the law, which will eliminate this possibility of cream peeling, which has already been mentioned in several speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u34	Madam President! I would like to thank Mrs Wallin for her very warm speech. I believe that this describes the feelings that are associated with the Post. They are of national significance. When the minister is here and we know that he listens with a sensitive ear, we will see to it that many of the practical things that have come up here will then come along when the matter is dealt with in due course, and the committee will take note of what is really going on here. I was one of those who, in time, criticised the extension of Posti's activities to R-kioske and elsewhere. Now I fully believe that it has worked brilliantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u37	Madam President! I had just thought about questioning that content in my reply. I would therefore like the Minister to think that this ideological privatisation process has exhausted us and removed a number of services. The Finnish State is now paying entrepreneurs who export tax money abroad, when we would have had to take into account the fact that Posti had taken these new forms of activity for its own work. Now I challenge the Minister to see if it would be appropriate to look again at whether we can stop this process, in which case the funds from the state budget... We'll get our passports, driver's licenses, we'll do a lot of things there. Why were we not then able to do that as Post services, so that postal services would be available in the localities? Why did we not negotiate with Posti that the post office would have been more open and provided those services?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u38	Mr President! In my opinion, this is the consumer's point of view that has been far too little in the debate. In fact, it seems that the consumer's point of view is of no great importance in taking these reforms forward. For example, what does a citizen in a remote area need? The population of the outermost region needs reliable regular distribution, not competition — reliable, regular distribution. He misses the fact that he can read his newspaper every day, and this particular intervention in the distribution of five days threatens this possibility. It does not necessarily come at this point, but that is why I am asking whether Mr Alatalo, for example, has spoken of three days of distribution, is prepared to give this up. Then another consumer's point of view, these postal clusters of blocks of flats. The population is ageing in Finland, we are already storing the elderly at home. Of course, it is good as long as they can pick up their mail, but is the mail now being taken away from home when those mailboxes are taken into a cluster somewhere else?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u39	Mr President! Of course, in this matter it would be desirable if, when privatised, obligations were also imposed, that those things which are not so profitable should also be dealt with. But it is also a fact that we are forced to live in this time and this world is changing and, unfortunately, people are moving away from the countryside a lot too. And when we go a few years forward, the mail has changed quite a bit since then into electronic mail. Even if we don't like it, there's nothing we can do about it. But at the moment we still have people who want it in their hands, both the weekly magazine and the morning paper. Well, whether it is Posti's duty or whether it is the magazine's obligation to deliver it is also one question that should be resolved. Has it also been considered in this context that packages could also be delivered to the sparsely populated area? I have heard that there are such innovations that, for example, controlled small helicopters take the package right to the point. Are there any of these coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u40	Mr Taavitsainen, followed by a reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u41	Mr President! The post office reports a reduction in the amount of mail to be delivered, but still the distribution problems have only increased, as has also been well identified in this debate. In other words, the statutory obligation to distribute mail on five weekdays is not being fulfilled today. This is due to the fact that Posti has reduced employees too much in relation to the amount of work. This spring, too, Posti is just going to continue along the same lines. I therefore wonder about the support given by Prime Minister Sipilä, who is responsible for corporate governance, for all the measures taken by Posti’s management. Post office personnel policy should be genuinely concerned, each of us. Up until five years ago, it was quite exceptional if some hundreds of households were not allocated during the week, but now this year the number has varied between 67,000 and more than 200,000 postal recipients, who are left without mail each week. What is the Minister going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u42	Now, Minister Berner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u43	Madam President! First of all, I would like to emphasise that this is not a question of privatisation, but of allowing more operators to operate in the postal sector. I would also like to remind you that only letter mail is included in the distribution obligation. Posti is already competing with foreign and non-resident operators in postal parcel delivery and other Posti operations. As a general rule, the postal service is distributed on a contractual basis, i.e. that Posti enters into a contract with, for example, the operator sending invoices or letters, who then decides on the basis of the type of delivery. At present, in the current situation, authorisation must be granted if there are no legal obstacles. We are ready for this type of ad hoc procedure in all other areas of communication policy, such as television and radio. This is a continuum as part of this long-term development of communication policy. We also have experiments in different parts of Finland, where, for example, a newspaper distributor or a newspaper house has agreed with a smaller house to distribute their magazines and they have six days of distribution in use. We must remember that the distribution of newspapers is not currently subject to Posti's obligations, but is always subject to an agreement. It is now a question of these contractual partners being more than one in the future, and it is primarily in the interests of the consumer. In addition to this, digitalisation is also intended to enable new forms of mail to be delivered in the future, as is the case with drones in sparsely populated areas, but these are still very specific cases and are particularly urgent from the point of departure. The reason why the Postal Act is being dealt with in two different stages is because this first step is tied to a timetable that is — a surprise, a surprise — once again from the EU, because we have companies that have applied for a postal licence that have filed a complaint against Finland. We must therefore take a position on this regulation, which is currently considered to be a distortion of competition. I myself have tried to ensure that the preparations for phase one and phase two of Posti are as close as possible to each other so that we can, with the best possible knowledge, be able to prepare this matter with the widest possible consultation. Furthermore, in relation to the fact that this has now been removed from the licence and the notification has been partly put in place: then we must also put pressure on this first stage, the postal law already relating to the marking of letters and the return of incorrectly distributed consignments. From this point of view, the various postal operators are on the same line as Posti. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u44	There's still a little desire to debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u45	Madam President! To Mr Salonen, I really wanted to ask the Minister and speculate that what the future is, is it really going to be three days in the future? If it is up to me, of course I would prefer it to be five days, but if, for some reason, Posti cannot fulfil this obligation, what are the alternatives? Similarly, I have received some feedback from the countryside about that digital magazine. Of course, I admit that many seniors prefer that paper rather than reading a digital magazine. That is what I am going to say about those e-mails, when Mrs Myllykoski raised this point, that we are sponsoring companies that export money abroad, that I think that the e-mails from agents have worked quite well. It has created flexibility in this system. It would be a lot of money to keep the post offices open late at night. I think there's some good service there, anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u46	Mr President! The Minister said here that you have tried to keep this first and second reading very close to each other, and that is why perhaps I could use a little opening up for this five-day distribution. I would like to remind you, therefore, that just under a year ago all the parliamentary parties have been asked about their position on the five-day distribution, and then, among other things, the centre has said that it is absolutely in favour of this five-day distribution. Well, it is already being raised here that it could be something else. I would now like to hear from the Minister that, when you are already preparing for this second stage, you will certainly have some kind of reflection on this five-day distribution, too, in which direction the preparation is now being taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u47	Madam President! It is certainly important to talk about this five or three days in terms of distribution. I am not underestimating it, but in my own speech I already wanted to see shots put in this development of the Post Office, and that development does not take place here but in the management of the company. According to press reports, ten of Posti’s senior officials or company managers earn more than the Prime Minister of Finland, the CEO also earns more than 50,000 euros a month according to newspaper reports. There, the development of the company should take place and not end up in a situation where postal activities in the regulated sector with regard to letter mail become dwindling year by year without any overall reform being carried out. It can't be that Posti's management gets the options and commissions, and the staff gets the result out, so it's fired. As far as the development of this company is concerned, I would still like a more precise description of the way in which this ownership policy and ownership responsibility are managed in the development of the company from the Minister, in your next speech. I hope the minister heard you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u48	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Berner for this reply, which you have just given. As far as the Postal Act is concerned, it is good to note that living in time is the word we must constantly remember, and these new policies are extremely important. Of course, it is also quite clear that we have different areas in this country and that there are significant differences in service needs. I would have asked the Minister here how we are going to look at the possibility of different regional solutions now that the future of Post is being discussed. From the customer's point of view, of course, I see it as the most important thing that the customer wants good service, and it is extremely important to enable Posti to cooperate with companies, that it is possible to guarantee customers the service they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u49	Madam President! I say to Congressman Alatalo: I did not criticise the e-mails, and their service production has been particularly important. We have been able to secure postal services in different areas when we have made stupid decisions that have led us to have had to make a decision so that this service concept can work, and it is good to go there. But as Mr Kari pointed out well above, it would now be important to start thinking about what the company's plan of action will be in the future. That is why I challenged Minister Berner to think about whether, from a historical point of view, we have made the right decisions when we have developed postal activities. Should we have had a more selfish service concept at national level, with which we would have reformed our own service concept so that Postin might not necessarily have
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u50	Mr President! If you look back a little bit now, when you’ve come to this age, the first email was Parliament’s mail in 1989, and Pekka Vennamo was the President of Post, and that’s where this agency’s mail system started. However, I am one of those MPs who appreciate these e-mails, and when the Postal Service Act was reformed in 2004, we extended the possibility of having e-mails of agents because, for example, in the village of Peräsäsäjoki in Seinäjoki, the post office was open on Tuesday and Thursday between 13 and 15, two days a week from 13 to 15, and at other times it was closed and people did not receive postal services. Now they get them from the S-market, and in that sense I agree with Mr Laukkanen that it is good that now those people have services seven days a week, basically from morning to evening. And it's been an extra service. So I do not regard this agency mail system as bad, but rather as serving people better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u51	Madam President! Ms Maijala and Mr Mäkipää made very good speeches here about the fact that you are concerned about the services of remote regions, and so they should worry us about every single person in this Chamber as a whole. Mr Alatalo, in your first debate you did indeed wish for postal transport to continue for at least three days a week — yes, it went just like this when I wrote it down — and this is where it comes to the attention that this is the wish of the wider centre party, because before the elections it was not your line, it was not enough for the mail to run for three days. I personally feel that a newspaper day late or a weekly magazine after a weekend is a very bad service. When it comes to competition, there will certainly be no party against fair competition in this Chamber. But how it will come about we are concerned about it. No one needs this cream peeling either because: In any case, the postal service retains this universal service obligation. And on this point, as far as this personnel policy by Posti is concerned: it is inferior. Yt negotiations take place at the same time as temporary employment companies are used.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u52	Madam President! In spite of us, and in any case, digitalisation is driving progress forward. That means, of course, that we always have to look back, because from there we see the path from where we came from and then we see how and where it takes us forward. Nevertheless, we have to take this time into account and the fact that changes in people's behaviour, the coming of e-mails and digital services have changed the service needs of society a great deal. From that point of view, however, we must look at how best we can adapt and be happy to be a little ahead of development. Well, then, I understand that this second stage is something that is of interest, and we are in the process of preparing for it, but not yet. We know that the EU is considering the reform of the Postal Act and the review of the Postal Directive. We see how solutions have been made in other sparsely populated, large countries, such as New Zealand or Canada. We will see how the various countries within Europe have resolved postal activities. We hear Posti, we hear you, we also hear other stakeholders, but above all we want to ensure that Finland will have good services, regionally functioning entities, entrepreneurship, but also an opportunity for innovation, growth, development. The Minister of Ownership is responsible for managing the post, and I am sure that I will also give him these greetings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u53	Let's continue with the list of speakers for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u54	Madam President! Now that we are dealing with this amendment of the first stage of the postal law and at the same time giving notice to the work of the committee, I think it is good to raise awareness of the flaws that come from citizens and businesses in the form of constant feedback. In other words, mail is spoken every day — or mainly because the mail does not pass. Yes, it is up to Parliament to know why mail travels so often late and Posti does not fix this situation. As has already been pointed out many times, a state company must serve the people and businesses, and its basic legal task is to distribute mail, but Posti has not cared about mail for two years. I'll read you a quote from the editor of Horsesport magazine: "I feel bad every time Post distributes the paper late. It feels bad for the subscribers who are waiting for the magazine, it feels bad for the reporters and for us who are making the magazine. I don't think so. Even those who work for the post office are nice, let alone worth reaching for. The raw truth, however, is that mail delivery in Finland is currently operating disastrously badly." A newspaper a day late or a weekly magazine after a weekend is bad service. Journal houses, printing houses, deliveries, etc. are important employers, and Post office operations weaken the sector because people stop ordering if the magazine does not arrive as agreed. The post itself feeds on less paper communications and customers moving to use electronic services. Many other companies would consider their customers to be the most important ones and meet their expectations. Mr President! The post office reports a decrease in the amount of mail to be delivered, but still the distribution problems have only increased. The statutory obligation to distribute mail on five working days is not fulfilled. This is due to the fact that Posti has reduced employees too much in terms of the amount of work, and this spring, too, Posti is just going to continue along the same lines. I still wonder about the support given by Prime Minister Sipilä, who is responsible for corporate governance, for all measures taken by Posti's management. We must all be concerned about postal personnel policy. According to the post office, the distribution problems are caused by sick leave and the idea that people could not be transferred to patch up sick leave and the work schedules would be so difficult to do. This is bullshit. There were no unallocated routes in the past, always in one way or another, and that was a matter of honour for the workers. "There were no sick leave, no busy days or no busy days, so they were all treated. Until five years ago, it was quite exceptional if some hundreds of households were not allocated during the week because of a lack of resources in Finland as a whole. This year alone, the number of people left undistributed has varied from 67,000 to more than 200,000 each week. Sick leave comes with 99 percent certainty unexpectedly. No duty schedule is the answer. It's strange how social and health care and industrial factories do well with TES and shift planning, but Posti doesn't. Work shift planning is not rocket science, but if there are too few people in terms of the amount of work, that is a problem. My suspicion is that self-inflicted problems in the statutory task will be used as justification for reshaping tasks. The post office has said that it wants to reduce its five-day distribution obligation, and Parliament must not agree to this. Otherwise, we will no longer be able to catch trains or mail from a central-wheeled government in Finland. Mr President! Post office personnel policy is not fair. At the same time, negotiations are under way to reduce the number of people and to find additional workers through the temporary employment company. There is no respect for the staff, and there is a desire to get rid of the older workers. At the turn of the year, some of the temporary staff who were replacing them were taken away and temporary workers on a zero-hour contract were replaced. The Post Office and the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health study the burden of distribution work for two years. The main conclusion of the investigation was that the load can be controlled if the working days include both sorting and distribution. At the same time, it was found that the distribution of the car alone was the most burdensome for the worker. However, in the ongoing shift in distribution, shifts in car distribution alone are the main idea. Various musculo-skeletal problems have led to unnecessary loss of working capacity. Post office workers are flexible by doing a lot of overtime, unscrupulously agreeing to changes in work schedules, holidays and other things. For two years, the workload has only increased in the postal sector and the number of overtime has increased. Personnel satisfaction has decreased and the activities of PAU's shop stewards have been blocked. The reduction in the volume of mail is a serious problem facing the company. However, the matter has been known and spoken by the company’s management for several years. The postal sector has made many hundreds of millions of euros of profits in this millennium. The company would have had excellent opportunities to invest and develop its operations together with its staff. However, large-scale acquisitions and investments abroad have been seen as a better way to face the challenges of the future. The staff feel that they have been left to pay for the adjustment quite unnecessarily. After 16 years of service, the maximum gross salary of the postman in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area is EUR 2249 and EUR 2184 per month outside. Why does the President of Post receive more wages than the President of the Republic of Finland, EUR 50,000 a month, but still not even the postal service can be distributed as agreed? I suspect there will be something hidden behind this bill that we will regret in the future. The law must not lead to a deterioration in the level of service outside of Congestion Finland, a deterioration in employment, a widening of the transfer of employees to lower wages and working conditions. On the contrary, the law must be able to correct this ongoing bad development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u55	Madam President! It was rather sad to hear Mr Taavitsainen speak,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u58	Madam President! In response to Mr Taimela, when I said that is the delivery of mail for the future at least three days a week, that the threat is really so great that the postal sector is in great turbulence as a result of digitalisation. It has a turnover of between 60 million and 70 million, and that is not a party policy, but a statement that this is a rather difficult situation. The mail would certainly take care of things, but if it is so loss - making, it is, of course, difficult. I wanted to speculate on whether the universal service obligation would remain as it is today or whether it would be three days. In any case, I believe that, as the Minister has already said, we also have the possibility that, for example, companies distributing newspapers could supplement this service, that at least it will come more than three days.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u59	Madam President! I would like to say to Mr Tavitsainen that it was not in itself related to this matter, and I hope that those matters and the debates which the representative has held, Tavitsainen brought up, we go there inside the Post and there in the governing bodies. In this matter, which is now on the agenda, we are talking specifically about licensing, and the postal market has already been opened up to competition under the Postal Act in 2011 and has been granted by the Council of State to date, and now it comes only to the notification procedure — I hope that this issue will now be discussed and that the second phase of the Postal Act will be achieved in the autumn, when the future of Posti can then be discussed. I personally hope that the Post Office, which is in fact in a difficult situation, cannot be denied, it will be difficult because the number of letters has collapsed, will continue to be of good power in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u60	Madam President! Of course, when Posti seeks results elsewhere, it is clear that, more or less, the case of people in remote areas in particular, Posti sees only the necessary evil, and any disregard is obvious. The expectations of the citizens themselves are not great. Citizens expect reliability and ease. This cry should be able to be answered by the Post and the way of thinking to be different. I have had a situation in January that I had not received the electricity bill and it went to the collection, and then I paid it, pir., twice, but it has not been contacted by the collection agency to return the second amount. Sometimes when I have paid the premium twice, the next day the amount has been contacted and returned.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u61	Reply, Mr Taavitsainen, and then back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u62	Mr President! In response to Mrs Torniainen's speech, I would like to say that it is a matter for Parliament and belongs to this Chamber. I would point out that Posti's activities as a public service provider are based on our Constitution, which guarantees everyone the right to confidential communications without anyone knowing about it, and according to the Constitution, the secrecy of correspondence is also inviolable. Now that such a huge amount of mail disappears and fails to be distributed every week, there will be a delay and also when new players enter the market, how can this constitutional right of people be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u63	Madam President! Minister! In this regard, I think Mr Taavitsainen made an excellent speech and summed up this issue with the unfair view which the citizens have had over the last few years of Posti's activities. The mail does not travel, the workers are treated very badly, the cracklers are taken to work when they're on their way, and then this hire. So the postman earns his salary, works hard for it, including overtime, as we know, but then the leaders sit in the cabinets, smoke cigars and then enjoy a variety of other natural benefits. Is this right? I'm just asking. As we now know, the government intends to amend the postal law in two stages, the first of which is the proposal under discussion. It is now proposed that the postal licences granted by the Government should be waived and that the postal activities subject to notification should be carried out. The next step is to assess, among other things, the scope of universal service. With all this, the government wants above all to promote competition in postal services. In addition, the amendment of the Postal Act is part of the Government’s deregulation project. But it seems that this dismantling of standards is sometimes an end in itself for the government. At times, however, standards are necessary if they are to protect the equality of people. My main concern with the reform of the Postal Act is that the most important thing, namely equality of people, is to suffer. Ensuring good postal services throughout the country must be at the forefront of reform, not the dismantling of standards or the promotion of competition. The Minister has considered it possible that: The obligation to distribute mail will be reduced by five days. The reduction in the distribution obligation has been followed by Heikki Malinen, the Managing Director of Posti. The Minister's and CEO's dreams have raised great concerns and amazement among Posti's employees as to whether Posti's management and minister are fully informed about the situation in Posti. Due to over-compensated negotiations Even today, as has been said several times in this Chamber, the post office is not able to distribute the transmissions in a way that is legally binding. How will this be answered when the postal law is being reformed and competition is being opened up more and more? At this stage, it is good to point out that the Union for Posts and Logistics conducted a survey before the parliamentary elections, to which all the parliamentary parties except the RKP replied. In this survey, the parties agreed that mail should be distributed every weekday and, as far as I know, there are five weekdays rather than three. Mr President! In reforming the Postal Act, it would also be important to listen to Posti’s employees. They are the best experts in developing services and addressing the current problems of postal services, not expensive consultants. It has now gone too far to the line that: The solutions to the problems of the post office will be torn from the backs of the workers through over-negotiations. The number of posts has decreased by over 8,000 from the turn of the millennium in Finland, which is a huge number. Now we need a quick study of how the drastic reduction in staff has affected the profitability of Posti's operations and the quality of postal services. There are many ways to compare the situation with that of VR. Who will take responsibility for the traffic of the entire nation if commercial operators concentrate only on the most profitable sections of the track? How will cream peeling be prevented if there is no one to bear overall responsibility, not on the tracks or in postal operations, but the whole operation is subject to competitions? The main issue of the reform of the Postal Act is to guarantee equality between people. Only by guaranteeing the availability of services, including postal services, in the whole country, including in sparsely populated areas, will we keep the whole of Finland inhabited and improve employment elsewhere than in Congestion Finland. Postal services available throughout Finland are also important for entrepreneurs and journalists, as has been said here. Finland's competitiveness will suffer if Finland is divided into more clearly successful areas of good services and employment, as well as areas of high unemployment and inadequate services. I think that Mr Kari spoke very constructively in this Chamber, in which he expressed the concern that: Mail has not been developed, its operation has not been developed in the way that we can do. And yes, this is where we say hello to the owner's guidance, that is to say, Prime Minister Sipilä and Posti's management. The post office has expertise, and that knowledge is worth taking advantage of for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u64	Madam President, Minister! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Postal Act so as to abolish the postal licences granted by the Government and to move on to non-notified postal activities. This reform is part of the overall reform of the legislation on passenger, postal and freight transport in accordance with the Government Programme. The purpose of the proposal is to contribute to the implementation of the deregulation targets set out in the Government Programme and to reduce entry barriers. In this respect, the proposal is good and worthy of support. Since the early 2000s, the nature of the postal sector and the business carried on has been undergoing a major change in the digitalisation of communications and changes in the way people use time. However, I would say that the postal shutdown has already started at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s. By then the mail was still in almost every village. Usually, leaving the village with mail, shops and village schools has meant that the village will fade away. The importance of traditional postal services has also decreased as a result of the increase in e-commerce, while logistics and parcel delivery have increased. For example, the Joensuu Post visited 500-600 customers on a normal day and more than 1,300 customers a day during Christmas rush hour. The last post in North Karelia, Joensuu Post, closed its doors on 21 February 2016. The post office will close 77 of its own stores by the end of 2017. Thus, only 21 Post stores of their own are expected to develop in Finland, i.e. close down. In Eastern Finland, the mail is also closed in Varkaus and Savonlinna. The nearest Posti store in North Karelia will be located in Kuopio. Posti has assured its customers that the services will remain the same and the opening hours will expand. If the service hours are the same as the opening hours of the shops, this must be partly achieved. Fortunately, there is also a little more light in addition to mere closures. This Government proposal aims to create conditions for existing and potential postal companies to develop their operations and services in line with the changing business environment. This will enable safe, comprehensive and high-quality postal services to be maintained throughout Finland in the future. This is one of the points of the proposal that I believe should be particularly invested in, and I hope that it will also happen. Currently, only one postal company operates on the Finnish postal market: Posti Oy. The postal market has not yet been properly opened in Finland. The aim of this proposal is to reduce barriers to entry for potential postal companies and to create conditions for new postal operations. The aim of the proposal is also to simplify administrative processes and reduce the administrative burden on postal undertakings and public authorities. This sounds very good to me when it comes to it. The proposal also proposes that the postal licensing system under the current Postal Act be abolished and replaced by a notification obligation for FICORA. Such a modification of the concession system in accordance with the proposal to a notification procedure would remove a significant entry barrier for the company in the sector. I think it is very important to continue to secure postal services throughout the country and to ensure that the level of postal services is no longer undermined. In fact, it is a matter of delaying the distribution of newspapers in rural areas. In the future, customers will apparently get their newspapers in digital form, because if the magazine is distributed in a box this afternoon, the news in the magazine will no longer be news. In January, the post office announced that it would start negotiations with a view to reducing employment to a maximum of 860. In the same context, Posti's distribution services and operations will change, as I said earlier. In my opinion, increasing services sounds like a difficult equation, while the population is shrinking. Hopefully, Posti will not repeat the mistakes of 2014, when after the redundancies, the delivery of the mail was backed up and some 200 employees had to be reinstated. Joensuu Post takes over the S-market of North Karelia Osuuskauppa, where as many as one employee moves instead of the previous seven employees. I wish him well. Few people can do seven people's jobs on the same shift. I hope the worker's salary is also up to the task.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u65	Madam President! Minister! The post is a centuries-old institution, institution, local service, employer, and it is very familiar and important to us all. Although we are now dealing with this licensing procedure, I would also like to highlight at this stage the debate and the ideas and reflections that this transformation of the Post, in particular in rural areas and regions with long distances, is taking place. I believe that Posti is still a local service, despite the fact that digitalisation has changed its character and has reduced the importance of distance in postal services. Today, a lot of things that went through the Post are going through the network lines. It is, of course, this electrification that is behind the overall reform of the Postal Act and, understandably, that even the number of mail carried has decreased and, as a result, the volume of mail sent to business in the postal sector has made it difficult to do so. It is true that letters represent 5 percent of the total turnover of Posti, but the downward spiral with which the number of letters is decreasing each year is, of course, quite fierce if, last year, the volume of letters decreased by 9 percent in just one year — and it is to be assumed that this cycle will only accelerate, so something must be done. However, the main concern in this reform of the Postal Act is access to services. At present, the universal service obligation ensures that all consumers and businesses have access to the transmission and reception of mail and mail parcels. This must be reasonable in price and also available on reasonable and fair terms — and, in the case of letter services, it must take place on five working days a week, as has already been said here. In the same way, Posti would have to have at least one office in each municipality under the current law, so that the business trip is reasonable, i.e. corresponds to the usual perceptions of the length of the business trip. They are good principles, and I hope that they will also be included in this reform of the Postal Act, although digitalisation will bring its own new perspectives. But that should, above all, be an enabling act, not a restrictive act. It was therefore helpful to hear that at least this amendment of the law is not undermining the status of universal service, and hopefully not even that second stage amendment of the law. We do not want rural services to go any further. However, the situation is already that many municipalities or regions no longer operate in Posti's own office, but the postal services have been placed in the e-mails of agents in connection with grocery stores. It is very flexible for the consumer, but there is some feedback that the administrators of e-mail agents do not consider it to be sufficiently costly to pay for work, and there is still a lot to be done in cooperation with companies. Then, of course, it is a big question that, when competition is opened up more and more, we must always ensure that similar services are secured in areas where competition does not operate under market conditions. That's our ass. Because back in the day, the Sevetti Lakers made a loud noise about losing their own e-mail: When the bar owner stopped the business and even the agent mail disappeared, there was not only an interest in the business as an agent post but a need for another company on the side, and on the other hand, Posti was not flexible enough to want to give Sevettijärvi village some kind of electronic package cabinet, that is, the availability of the packages. If it is not possible to switch to digital services in this service transition, then people will in fact be left without services. It is therefore important to take into account the availability and accessibility of digital services, because now they do not work everywhere, especially in areas of long distances, and when they are most needed there, it is important that the government also supports the accessibility of its digitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u66	Madam President! I will take this floor from my seat. It was once sung that a letter of my love would bring you, but it won't. They're tweeting them these days. This Beatles song is no longer true. Indeed, the volume of mail and newspapers and magazines has fallen by about 10% a year in recent years. That's a lot. This is not a party program, it is just a recognition of the fact that we are in this situation and it has meant a reduction in the annual turnover of Posti Oy of between EUR 60 and EUR 70 million. The strict regulation of the Postal Act does not allow it to adapt to the changed situation, and now this spiral of obsolescence is under way, and in that sense this liberalisation would be important. Indeed, today we are dealing with precisely this transition from the administrative system to the notification system when new companies start operating with mail. And indeed, the Postal Directive has already liberalised postal competition in the EU in 2008, so that this is not a new issue. In practice, the terms of the licence are indeed transferred to the law and part of the licence is completely abandoned. Obstacles to distribution are removed from postal legislation and other parallel laws. For example, the possibility of combined transport is an old invention, but it is a good thing that, for example, mail could be transported in rural areas in connection with other transport operations. Updating the universal service obligation on a sustainable basis. I will not take any further view on how many days it will be, but I will raise the concern when the competition is opened up, which is the representative. My corner very well pointed out — and that is quite the same — that there are not necessarily so many of those competitors in the peripheral region, and that is where we will have to be able to secure these services in particular. But all in all, it's the big renovation in the fall, and we're gonna do it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u67	Madam President! These things around the Post have been one break-in for a long time, not just in our lifetime. At one time there was a postal house boy system in Sweden and Finland for 200 years, and it is said that the village facility was born around it quite a bit. Many of us have in mind, and one of the speeches referred to the art of the 80s to 90s when there was a drastic thinning of the postal network in rural villages. That was largely due to the fact that the post offices did not want to continue working in this form. However, it was a necessity, even though it was a painful thing at the time, because many post offices might have had two customers a day, if any. This change, on the one hand, explains to a large extent the evolution of technology, in part the EU. However, we cannot go behind the EU in everything. We're a different country. Finland is not a densely populated country like Western Europe, we are a sparsely populated country, and yes we must understand and find our own way of organising these matters. It is maintained that reliability and ease are values to be adhered to and equal treatment of citizens regardless of their place of residence and other factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u68	Mr President! Yes, in recent years, a shadow has been created for the realisation of the Finnish fundamental right in relation to Posti. The closure of establishments, the reduction of employees, the continuing problems of distribution and, most recently, this questioning of the five-day distribution obligation have contributed to creating a very dark shadow over Post's activities. Mr Taavitsainen well described in his own speech the feelings that Posti's employees have had over the past year, for example, and about which I have received a great deal of communication. So there the workers have a strong desire to serve the citizens, to fulfil the obligation which, in fact, with a long tradition, is also a matter of pride for them, but the everyday reality has made it almost impossible to do so. This causes, for example, these persistent distribution problems, which then contribute to undermining public confidence in the Post. With regard to this second stage, the five-day distribution, possible changes which have been tried to ask a lot of questions here today, it also raises a lot of additional questions about the right of every citizen to confidential communication. For example, what should it mean in the future for Posti’s employees? Is it possible that the dismantling of the five-day distribution would take place, for example, through part-time work, which would mean that workers at part-time would no longer be able to pay the kind of pay they could live on? This will also contribute to the dismantling of the confidential, good service of Post to which we are now accustomed. I hope, therefore, that there are no plans to weaken consumers and Posti's employees. And yes, we must also take seriously the crisis of the end of this five-day distribution to the press houses, especially in sparsely populated areas. There has been a great deal of talk about the media revolution over the last few years, and the electronic world will certainly come, but the five-day distribution will also be an important part of the press industry, and this would make it even more difficult for them. Then, if we go to this government proposal which is now under discussion, it has until now been thought that the granting of postal licences is a very important decision in terms of social weight, and therefore, that is why, the postal licences have been issued by the Government. In the past, the committee has highlighted this issue. Mr Jalonen is in the Chamber and, as chairman of the committee, he could now take care of this important, important line of previous committees. In 2010, among other things, the committee stated in its report that licensing conditions are a key mechanism that can influence the functioning of the market and ensure the provision of universal service as the objective of the Postal Act. I now hope, in this referral debate, that the chairman of the committee will see to it that this principle and objective continue to be achieved. Finally, I have to say that there has been so much debate here about this five-day period and its continuation, about this inquiry by the Finnish Trade Union Union (Taitti) magazine just before the elections. In fact, the Coalition Party as the only party said that there is so far no special need to reduce the frequency of distribution, but let me read the answer from the centre here for example: "The Centre understands the challenges and problems associated with the rapid reduction in the volume of traditional mail. However, there is still a need for five-day distribution, for the very reason that much of Finland's newspapers are distributed in connection with postal distribution. New models could be developed to ensure five-day delivery in which other delivery and transport would be carried out in connection with the delivery of mail." The Finns have also stated that yes, the universal service of the Postal Act obliges the universal service letters to be distributed five days a week and the universal service obligation of the Postal Act must continue to be maintained. As far as these answers are concerned, I am confident that the government parties will continue to maintain this course of action in the second phase of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u69	Mr President! The Post Office is now in a state of transformation. The Postal Act will be amended in two parts this year. Today is the first part of the Postal Act in a referral debate in Parliament. This first change should indeed be technical. However, the second stage in the autumn will be a major and difficult process when we start discussing, among other things, whether the obligation to distribute mail can be reduced to three days a week. There will certainly be a great deal of discussion about it. Of course, I myself have an opinion that the service will continue to be needed on five days. The delivery of mail is currently poking in many of Lapland's localities. We've got it. The last couple of weeks of tension in many houses, which comes first, the post office or the Ten News. The post office has started negotiations, and every effort is now being made to do all the work on its own. Yesterday I was promised from Posti that, once the new arrangement was made, Savukoski would have mail in every house in the next few weeks no later than 6 p.m. — although there was quite a lot of doubt about it. Now I have received quite similar messages all over Lapland that very late the mail comes to many houses, and the crowds do not see it at all at a reasonable time when it is used to the fact that the mail comes to us in good time. Posti’s operations were opened to competition as early as 2011, and it has been possible to become a postal distribution company by submitting a permit application. The application must have been accepted if the conditions for authorisation are met. In the first phase of the Postal Act, this becomes a notification procedure, and you can become a postal distribution company by registering and at the same time committing yourself to meet these conditions. We are now starting to deal with this postal bill in the Committee on Transport and Communications immediately, and I think it will be quite easy to go through. On the other hand, the second phase, which starts immediately thereafter, has now been the subject of much debate and will certainly not be easy for anyone. I am a member of the Board of Directors of Post and also a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, both of which are concerned about the future situation — a change when it is said to be necessary to make when the number of posts is decreasing all the time. The Tax Office and Kela are now moving to undocumented activities. A significant proportion of the newspapers have already entered the digital age. I am very concerned about how the postal services in the peripheral region of Lapland will be handled in the future. The situation is serious — let us try to find solutions to it, because it is our fundamental right to receive mail. It is a fundamental right and we must not give up on it. The post office needs to develop logistics and service structure. What other services, then, could Posti carry? This will be considered very much in Parliament. The distribution companies have already become new — what will be Post's competitive position in the future? What is the future obligation to distribute mail? Do you mind if that bill comes tomorrow, but what is our constitutional right to have a magazine, even if it is not part of the distribution obligation? However, it must be understood that there is a post that distributes something every day, and it is also possible to get a magazine home on that journey. We in Lapland have previously received mail in such a way that the Posti staff have first sorted it, some of the mail has been delivered to the villages with the help of postal staff, and yet taxis and many business operators have shared it with different sides, which has made it possible for the post to be very well informed in every place. Now these contractors, taxis and all these business operators have been kicked out of this job completely. That is why I would like to ask the question here: could it be possible to stop talking about the need for Posti to have an exclusive right to pursue this matter alone in the future, but could it even be obliged to cooperate with local business operators? For example, the obligation to use local companies. If there are taxis or similar, those services should be used. The post office will be seen as a multi-minister to the countryside in the future. Could it be a multi-service car that travels at a certain time? Could it transport food? Could it transport customers like a line taxi? Could it manage other services in rural areas, food from the store? Could it manage banking services, be some kind of ottomat, then give money on a debit card, give medicines to some people? Could it be a lottery machine, a library and all these things? It is great to talk about all kinds of multi-form services and other things, but we need to remember that the basic thing is, however, the post office and its postal service management, and whenever it has other activities around it, so the basic thing suffers from it, schedules suffer and functions suffer. So it doesn't count too much on these other people. These other activities will only be specific cases and other individual cases. The basic issue must always be the delivery of mail, because Posti's task is the delivery of mail and information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u70	Mr President! Mail has been used to being considered a basic infrastructure for society. There are newspapers, bills and income support applications in the form of postal mail — or, in other words, more and more traditional mail and services are moving to the network. In particular, the physical distribution of Posti’s bread teeth, bills and magazines is decreasing very rapidly. Only the number of packages has increased with the e-commerce. However, the distribution of parcels has not been regulated as strictly as the delivery of letters. Therefore, the distribution of parcels is already a highly competitive market, and Posti is certainly not in any advantage as a distributor of online shop products. For example, only a fraction of my own online purchases will be delivered by Posti, whereas the cars of international courier companies and domestic online stores seem to favour Matkahuolto service. Mr President! With the decrease in letters and newspapers, Posti's income has decreased year by year. On the other hand, Posti's responsibilities and tasks have remained unchanged. Posts have been bound by the terms of its licence, which has led to an unsustainable situation. Post will no longer be able to secure the services required by its licence throughout the country. In particular, the quality of distribution has suffered. For example, for my part, two invitations to a doctor have disappeared. On the other hand, the invoices for unused reception times were well received, not to mention the costs incurred by the hospital district, i.e. taxpayers. Or what should have been thought when the announcement of a family member’s assignment went into the neighboring house? Fortunately, a friendly neighbor then personally brought in the announcement. I myself have often had to take the mails from our neighbours to the right boxes and try not to look at where the letter came from intrum Justitia or other collection agencies. That is why I am very disappointed that the word 'quality' was not found in this government proposal but once and also in the paragraph on EU postal legislation. Mr President! The correctness of mail delivery is more important than daily delivery. For example, a missed payment reminder may at worst lead to a default marking. That is why I hope that this government proposal can be supplemented in committee, so that all companies that distribute letter mail, including Posti Corporation, will be given equal quality criteria and sanctions if these criteria are not met.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u71	Madam President! The fact is that The situation in the post office is difficult and critical There is a great deal going on with regard to the operation of the post, and I am sure that every one of us, myself, would have a lot of criticism over the next few weeks. But it'll be another time. The number of letters has collapsed a lot; on the other hand, Posti has not kept up with e.g. increasing internet trade. Growth has also brought to the industry various distributors, who have also contributed to Posti’s profitability. And this competition Post should have been more involved in earlier times, that is a fact. There was already a debate here on how to deal with e-mails, for example. I myself have had good experiences with them. It has also increased service. In the future, there must also be clear rules for the delivery of mail, and in the whole country the same rules must apply for the delivery of mail. Citizens must receive the same service regardless of the postal code. And in the future, when the second phase of the Postal Act takes place, it must also be possible for postal services that combine different services, such as shopping, services needed by the elderly and the disabled, and so on. Now, this government proposal lowers the threshold for entry into the postal sector by moving to a non-disclosure system, while at the same time creating conditions for new postal companies to start postal activities and also to enable new services to be created — I think that is a good thing. In today's debate, the role of FICORA has been almost ignored, as it will have to keep a public list of notifying actors in the future. Similarly, the new operator must notify FICORA before starting operations. Mr President! I hope that, both here and in the second phase of the Postal Act, the customer perspective will be the most important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u72	Madam President! You can't escape the facts if you didn't do the letter mail in this country. I'm sure no one closes their eyes to that fact. The fact that a position may have been taken on issues other than those currently being sought by the proposal in this debate has been justified. In this context, it is important to remember that there is always talk of such national, public service. Under no circumstances should we forget when we are looking for a better service from a customer point of view and potential players in this market. We have to remember that this is a public service. We certainly do not have to go far enough when this public service debate has brought up Caruna or Digita, who have then gone to the market where they are. In this context, there has been a debate — including the Minister’s intervention on the progress of digitalisation — but now I would like to remind you that if we are to justify reducing distribution days with this digitalisation, we must remember that — for a moment, who has just mentioned the activities of Kela and the tax authorities — they are not accessible to all Finns. We have many hundreds of thousands of people who are unable to deal with these services because they do not receive bank IDs. If we are going to open this debate by ensuring that it is managed by digitalisation, I hope that the committee will also reflect on the question that we should also have the opportunity, each of us in Finland, to have these digital services. Just as much could be done in committee to consider how we produce these services for those for whom the magazine cannot come. Let us also challenge a few newspaper houses to the extent that these digital services are extended over the Internet, or would it be possible for us, with technology, to make such a decision that the grandmother who has the right to read the daily magazine without payment through the Yle-Tax could be viewed, for example, through television? It should not be a revolutionary matter for the press houses to be able to negotiate with Yle, MTV or someone else — but of course here with Yle — so that we can improve these service packages so that a daily so-called morning paper can be available to everyone, even if it does not. That is what we can discuss here. Personally, it must be said that, on my own part — this is not a left-wing union statement on this arrangement — I think it is important that the services can be secured, and it is important that the mail is delivered five days a week, a very good thing. But we do have operators on the field who drive from one postbox to another in a row. It certainly makes sense at this point in economic terms to start wondering whether, for example, in Satakunta, a regional provincial newspaper can make such an agreement that they also share letter mail while sharing it with a so-called future magazine in the morning. Representative Maijala said that it is tense whether the mail comes first or the Ten News. I would be very pleased if we had the mail before 10 news, but I must say that you obviously meant the news at 10 o’clock. Yes, I see whether we would have the courage to reflect on it too — and this is now a very personal opinion — that, when we are required to have first class mail the next day, the rapid operation of letter mail is, in some respects, a fundamental right and there may be very big things inside that will require it the next day to come, but on my own, I could say that if it came with the morning post for me in a box, for example, with the daily newspaper. I would be willing to discuss whether we have a postal law that requires such demands, which requires it to come the next day, or whether it could be the next morning. I hope that the committee will actually open up a little of this debate in the second stage of the debate now, not just to hang itself on what is at stake here, but to direct the Council of State a little in its own report on which direction it should take, to be open-minded, not to forget that a little criticism could be shown in the direction that we should not learn from history. I have nothing against these business premises, customer service mails in stores, but I would like us to see that if we had already made these arrangements in another way, we would also have active post offices in sparsely populated areas. If we had been more selfish at national level to insist that post offices could have been developed in such a way that they are other services, we would have been better able to secure what services we run in this country with tax money, and this situation would be much easier. I do not want to incriminate the sellers of R-kiosk, for example, who, 20 years ago, were paid in accordance with the collective agreement when they sold beer, caramel, cigarettes, and everything was good in that regard. At present, these sellers in R-kiosk are still receiving remuneration under the collective agreement, but the State's statutory activities have been directed to this private service provider, and they contribute to the reluctant entrepreneurs, the franchisers who are there, run the R-kiosski business, are not likely to receive the share of this state's statutory service production when I can apply for its passport and so on in the evening. I would have liked to have hoped that, when, at this point, Minister Berner said that history should be explored, then such a somewhat more selfish view would be taken of what are the services provided by the state and what obligations we have. To develop this post office in the direction that it is a more diverse service-producing unit, which will ensure that the network of services in sparsely populated areas will continue to exist. Madam President! Packages are delivered, and Posti has received its share. It has a highly developed network, particularly a highly functional and competitive network in urban areas, to which these foreign mail providers have not come. But I must say that the package does not come through the mail, and here too we should perhaps have a debate within the Post about how we are more competitive. Since we have daily mail, it is strange that the package cannot also go along with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u73	Madam President! I believe that the reform of the Postal Act must be carried out primarily on a customer-oriented basis and that few regions must receive their mail and preferably by domestic means. On the other hand, I also believe that traditional mail will be delivered for as long as it exists, but in a changing world, it seems that new forms of action are needed. And as stated in the explanatory memorandum, this reform has been on the table for a long time. However, I cannot personally support the spirit of the Postal Directive to fully open up the postal market to competition. I do not support this spirit of Brussels. However, as has been heard in this Chamber, the universal service obligations of Posti Oy are at least challenging. The competition must be fair for the traditional Post. And what, though, of this possible subvention of the few areas of mail distribution, could it be some kind of postal tariff, as is the case with a feed-in tariff for wind power? Concerns about jobs must be taken into account, but at least I still want to believe that jobs will also be created when standards are dismantled and jobs change to different addresses or offices. Too much regulation is therefore a burden on the economy, on the cost structures of companies and on the economy as a whole. Well, in the whole country then I hope for such a holistic approach to this renewal and I support the idea put forward here to move on to this sub-detached distribution in apartment blocks or at least in new blocks of flats. The grandmother of Livo in Pudasjärvi picks up her mail not downstairs, but next to her old milk dock by the gravel road. In Sweden, this sub-frontloading has already taken place a long time ago, and if you think, as has been said here many times in the Chamber, that the amount of mail has decreased in recent years, would the price of mail carried to the floors have increased in the same proportion? Indeed, broadband does not yet exist at every home, and it will probably never come to every economy. These aspects also need to be taken into account in further preparation. Of course, I wish it were possible to "broaden for all" one day. The digital leap that has already been talked about requires broadband. I personally like digital magazines and digital books and also invoices in electronic form — not necessarily the content, but the fact that we also have electronic invoices. That's good. But it must be understood that this is not possible for everyone. As Mrs Myllykoski said, not everyone has the banking credentials required for business. That, too, is an obstacle to a full-scale digital leap at this stage. However, digitally speaking, the e-services for applying for a passport, which came into force last season, have received a lot of praise, and that is where the passport can be picked up from R-kiosk today. Well, the other tasks planned for phase two of the reform of the Postal Act are, in my opinion, a place for evaluation, with an open mind. We have been experimenting with the use of mail in catering services, home services. These have been in Europe, apparently also in Helsinki, Finland. I do not think it is possible to mobilise a very large postal patrol, but it is possible to look for practices that better serve the citizens. The nurse will continue to be a nurse, and the postman is a postman, but if there is a common interface and so much talk of synergy, then we must be open to new ways of working. Or in translation: In the old days — and this is where Mr Kivelä recalled — there were postmen. The boat in the archipelago took the mail, and it had oars and sails: we got there even when the wind calmed down. In other words, there must be a choice of means, and this reform must certainly achieve its objective of dismantling standards and streamlining activities — at least not increasing their successive rides.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u74	Mr President! There has been a great deal of talk here, past this actual issue, about the wider service of the Post. This actually shows that Post is in a state of transformation. In general, the postal market is changing, and this has also caused problems along the way, and these are something we should talk about. We therefore find ourselves in a situation where, in a sense, we need to wake up in time to reform the Post itself and take the measures we have here. But here's what's really going on. This has been asked, for example, for monitoring, i.e. to stick to this old model. In this new situation, this supervisory aspect must also be modernised. Postal customers, i.e. us normal people, not just business customers, must be able not only to benefit from this competition, but also, among other things, a representative. Improvement of the quality criteria highlighted by the plant through better monitoring. All of this must be done in such a way that, in this tightening postal market situation, we will have Finnish mail in the future. Indeed, on the basis of this debate, I can assure you that the Committee on Transport and Communications will carry out an in-depth consultation on this issue and, at this first stage, it will certainly go a little further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u75	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u76	Madam President! The changes now being made to the Act on Integration are justified. Bureaucracy is decreasing, and municipalities are more easily compensated for their growing burden, which, of course, is not a good thing in itself. However, I would like to raise an important issue that has been overlooked but equally important as regards the payment of compensation. According to the law, the payment of compensation is still subject to an agreement with the Centre for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment. In practice, therefore, the municipality cannot abolish the reception of refugees, even if it wishes, because if it terminates the agreement, it will also lose compensation for those who have already arrived in the municipality but for whom this three or four years have not yet been completed — or at least I will interpret what is stated in the proposal, so that this situation is possible. If that is indeed the case, then this is a rather unreasonable situation. These compensations received by municipalities should not be linked to the validity of the agreement, i.e. to the promise that there will be more and more refugees. When the municipality has agreed in good will on the reception of refugees, compensation should also be paid in full and as promised for refugees already present in the municipality, regardless of whether the municipality wishes to take more of these refugees in the future. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this law, Article 44 of the Act on Integration should also be amended. It requires the validity of the agreement referred to in Article 41 with the Ely Centre. This change would be necessary because, in the current legislation, compensation payments to municipalities will be abolished for refugees who have already arrived if the municipality is not willing to take up more of this, i.e. to keep this agreement in force — if I have correctly interpreted this proposal. I hope that this issue will be clarified in the follow-up to the debate, otherwise I am very much in favour of this with a warm heart.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u77	Madam President! This bill is very timely because we know that, during this spring, between 12,000 and 15,000 people from those who have arrived in the last year will be eligible for a residence permit. That is why the reform started last year that this kind of payment could be automated, takes us well into this direction of cutting red tape. Preparations have therefore already been made for the transition to the introduction of the electronic system in 2015, and now, in April, we will be able to do so. This means, of course, that all municipalities must have an integration programme, and if, at present, one municipality does not have an integration programme — some of them are small, some of which have a reception centre — and if a municipality of residence can be located there, then it may also be sufficient to have a joint municipal integration programme. We have very different integration programmes at the moment, and surely one of the criteria that will be addressed in the future is their quality, because now that we have, or at least had, 115 reception centres, some of them were in such municipalities where there had never been reception centres before, and we are also in new places of residence. Secondly, of course, there must always be an agreement with the Centre for Economic Affairs, Transport and the Environment in order to be eligible for compensation. The question raised just now by Mr Eerola has to be examined in committee: what will happen if, for some reason, the municipality terminates this agreement during the period in which people are becoming integrated? I hope, of course, that this will not happen, but... The reform therefore makes it necessary not to make a separate application to KEHA, i.e. to make a development and administration centre, but to make use of the information provided by the Population Register Centre, which will then automatically enable municipalities to receive these integration allowances. When we talk about the amount of integration allowances, I have not yet understood why we have three and four years of integration allowances, while others are those who have come through the so-called quota system, and others as asylum seekers. But would it be reasonable for municipalities to have the same period of compensation and, of course, preferably four years, because it is known that at the moment, when there is a large number of municipalities for the first time, the situation is so new that the four-year compensation period would certainly be justified? But this technical amendment of the law will reduce bureaucracy, the system has already started to change last year, and very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u78	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u79	Madam President! The previous point ended with Mr Paatero saying that this will reduce bureaucracy and is very good. Well, Mr President, unfortunately the situation is that this paragraph does not stop with the same words, but with the exact opposite. Here, on the contrary, there is a proposal which increases bureaucracy, unnecessary regulation and costs — more, today, however, as the government is making the most of it, that now we need to dismantle unnecessary standards, throw unnecessary regulation in the wastebin and reduce costs. That's right. That's what we should do. It is therefore surprising that today the government is going to come forward with a bill that now even requires energy certificates from garages in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u84	Madam President! I support Mr Viitanen's proposal. And yes, he was exactly the right person to drive this show, because it was he, when he was a minister, who took a booth on a citizens' initiative, in which more than 50,000 Finns demanded that old detached houses be exempted from this compulsory energy certificate. In particular, bullying older people is pointless, and half of Finns live in small houses. Minister Viitanen acted within the EU in accordance with the will of Parliament, and now the Energy Efficiency Directive is under review, with changes being made. This should be resolved by the end of this year, in just over six months. So why does the government not now seek to influence sensible legislation in the EU, but to bring us more indecisive energy efficiency requirements?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u91	Mr President! This position of the committee was a surprise to me. I thought that the representatives of the government parties in the committee would also think about this. The referral debate clearly showed that there are significant weaknesses in this proposal. This is becoming a way of harassing people, people in detached houses, those with garages or those with stocks rather than making real energy savings. From that point of view, the line taken by the previous Minister of Housing, Mrs Viitanen, during the last period, would have earned a coherent line from this government and this Parliament, namely that Finland is trying to get rid of these unnecessary energy certificates for old detached houses. I myself am in favour of sensible regulation. I am also in favour of working together in the European Union on matters where there is genuine added value in European decision-making. But I will ask what the added value is of this regulation of old detached houses and its expansion after the Parliament has clearly and unilaterally wanted these certificates to be completely removed from the old detached houses in the last period. This doesn't make any sense. This is precisely the unnecessary, unnecessary regulation that we should try to get rid of both in the European Union and here. Why does this matter to us in these old detached houses? Because Finland from all the countries of the European Union is the country where the most people live in detached houses. I am well aware that this debate is not in progress in France or Italy or in Britain, because the majority of people live in blocks of flats and therefore do not benefit them. Then it is also known that some countries of the European Union take these provisions quite liberally: they are not taken so seriously and officials do not make use of their time if this classification of energy certificates has not been mentioned in a press release. In other words, when there is unnecessary, unnecessary regulation, then the eyes are closed and sometimes the eyes are closed to the necessary regulation. Our culture is different. In a hundred years of tradition, our starting point has been that we take the laws that have been adopted literally and make every effort to comply with them and that it is monitored by officials. Now, this legislation, which continues to do so — not to go in a sensible direction, does not remove this regulation of old detached houses, but to increase it — becomes one more regret. People feel that this kind of activity is justifiably bullied. And I dare to suspect that when the honourable Member is asked why these stocks and garages are still in place, quite a few Members of Parliament will say that I voted in favour of this, because this saves the environment when we all realise that this is not an environmental saving. A similar observation was made during the previous period, the 2007 period, when we had this issue of waste water in sparsely populated areas. And when the Minister at the time, as I recall, mentioned in the parliamentary debate that this was quite clear and that instructions were correctly made to read how this waste water regulation behaves, I considered it my duty, as group chairman, to take a look at this issue and to obtain the material. It was not like a hundred pages, as I remember, but I had to say that if I owned a summer cottage or lived near the waters, for example, and this waste water regulation in sparsely populated areas would have affected me, then after two readings I would not have understood the 100-page instruction that I should or should not. That's why I came to the conclusion that this kind of regulation is not needed, and I supported the line that this is lightened and focused on protecting the one that has real environmental significance. I think this is the same thing: there is a good intention, but the good intentions of it go so far too far that there will be an unnecessary set of regulations that bother people. Then it has been said that, after all, this is only a few hundred euros, perhaps 800 euros. So, ladies and gentlemen, these little cents relating to housing, there is a lot of noise there: there is a transfer tax, for example, then there is the VAT on housing, which goes to the till for the sale fee, and then there is all the charges that, from the waste management point of view, become absolutely compulsory for housing, where there is little choice as to what to do. And then on top of it you put this, that now if you rent this kind of bigger garage or warehouse, you rent it, then you have to pay for the proof of what is this computational — note, not real but imputed — energy consumption. I understand that this is a difficult matter, because no government party has asked to speak on this matter, that it is hoped that this will go through Parliament with as little noise as possible and that this is not something we would be talking about here and then we could forget about it. But that is not how it is going to be, because this is an important legislative issue affecting people's lives, which is going in a completely different direction from what was promised during the last parliamentary term and where the consequences will then be borne by ordinary people. I would remind you that there are 2 million Finns living in detached houses, and this is not a trivial question at all. Houses are rented and sales are made every year, and this is one more expense in addition to all their other expenses. Then you can say yes that this is the kind of eternal motion that has been invented when the government makes a proposal that unnecessary regulation is dismantled, and then in the meantime makes more unnecessary regulation, so that we have a new electoral slogan ready for the next election: this unnecessary regulation of this parliamentary term needs to be dismantled. In this way, of course, you can get support, alternately for both things. This is kind of the same thing as the one on the payroll. It has also had the same technology in place: one parliamentary term was supported by a promise of large wage increases and then in the next parliamentary term, support will be obtained by demanding responsible wage increases or, as is the case now, even wage reductions. But there is no point in this when problems are seen in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u96	Mr President! I think that this is where Mr Harakka and Mr Heinäluoma expressed very good views. There are two dimensions here, and the other is that there is no point in this matter, and the other dimension is precisely that how in the world, for example, the Finns of Finland, for example, are doing the exact opposite of the message that has gone before the elections to the citizens and voters in general. But, President-in-Office, I would like to say that this renewal of the directive is at a time when, in the autumn, Parliament is expected to receive a U-letter from the Government which will explain how the government intends to react to this renewal of the directive. I expect in that letter that the government not only maintains this line with regard to old detached houses but also returns to this garage issue, but obviously it will not come back, because there is a lot of people here to bring this bill at this stage and get it through. President! The Social Democrats really see that there is no point in this, and that would have to be a certain sense and also a sense of uprightness towards the European Union, that at a time when there is talk of deregulation there too, this would also be the case there. That is why I think it would also be a good reason for Finland to have the opportunity to have its position heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u97	Mr President! I was just about to correct Mr Heinäluomaa when he said that no representative of the government parties or of the Finns has asked to speak on this subject when I saw the name of Mr Niko, but he has now withdrawn the speech, he does not want to take credit for this government proposal. Now, defend your government's motion and tell them that this is not going far enough enough for the doghouses and birdhouses to be next. When you were in the opposition, you were constantly demanding that the EU should not be given any form whatsoever, but now that you are saying that why do you — to continue with this doghouse image — throw yourself on your back and beg the EU to come up with an idea, why are you now silent? Please defend this fine piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u98	Mr President! For this reason, these proposals are here in the debate, so that after the committee's report, we can hear the speeches of the Members of Parliament, not only the members of the committee, but also those outside the committee. I am, however, very disappointed that no representative of the Government Party wants to tell us why this has been achieved and why this position of the last Parliament is no longer acceptable. Why do people no longer want to talk about it, about giving up in its entirety, about Finland trying to act in such a way as to get rid of the precise bullying of old detached houses? So this is still a specific bullying for Finns, because as I told you, this does not apply to others in the same way. This is a strange silence, and I think this is a little less important than parliamentary work. No matter what decision you make, you have to be able to tell me why. In particular, I am still in this perfect turn of coats for the Finns. This is a small matter for the government, but it is a very big thing for people who live in their own homes. When it comes so close to this announcement that the EU is renewing this directive, then it will be reviewed, and when the Union has announced that it is going through these old directives at all, where there is unnecessary regulation in them — that is the big thing for the Juncker Commission, the deregulation of unnecessary regulation — why on earth are we not taking this issue up and making a proposal that Finland should start and look at this renewal of the directive and the dismantling of this unnecessary regulation in the Union? I think that this is a very strong case for the government if we want to make a policy of our own, based on our circumstances and understanding of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u99	Madam President! Mr Harakka has now asked for a response from the government on this matter, and I do not have that answer now, because this does not concern my committee and I have no further knowledge of this matter. Of course, I am familiar with the main features of this content and I am sure that I will give you some sympathy on this issue as well. The fact that there is not much debate on this subject is probably due to the fact that there are not only three socialists in this Chamber but three of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u102	Mr President! I appreciate Mr Nikon's very honest and honest speech and the fact that he too sees that there is a problem here, and he acknowledges that perhaps this is not quite the case. But I will come back to the question that it is strange that no one here is going to stand up for this, that everyone is going to go for the coffee or for the rest of the world. What is the significance of this Parliament if we do not even agree to discuss what we are doing here? Yes, it must be so that when you make decisions, then the spine must be able to stand up for its own opinion and also the government's action when the government's activities are supported. This leaves a little bit of the impression now that this is a repulsive decision for one and another, but for some strange reason this is simply being taken forward and no one wants to take responsibility for it. This is bad parliamentaryism if that is the case. I mean, it's up to the majority to decide, but, yes, we have to tell them why we're making a decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u103	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank Mrs Niikko for being here. But, indeed, the big question is precisely what Mr Heinäluoma said above, that when there is such a situation and it is known that this includes questions and rejection and so forth, it would be reasonable for the government parties to be here to give an explicit explanation of why this is going on. It is an absolutely intolerable situation that the opposition is then making their own proposals and is faced with this situation, that the government parties are not even justifying their positions, and that is why I really hope that if anyone is listening here, as is often the case in the offices, the parties concerned will be able to come out and explain. And of course, Mr President, we could at some point set aside a time for the Minister to open up to us, in the context of a debate, what is going to be done in the coming reading of this directive, because it is, however, an issue within which the whole of Parliament, acting unanimously during the last term in the context of the citizens' initiative, has promoted, and that is why I believe that this is not just a trivial or small matter, but a big thing, and, as Mrs Heinäluooma has said very well, in terms of the life of the ordinary person, this is particularly a big thing that is annoying, and that is why I believe that not only we in this Chamber but also ordinary citizens would like to hear the reasons for this. I have already been asked many questions and wondered about them, the last time I met people in Tampere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u104	Madam President! Just that much to Mr Heinäluoma I would like to say that, of course, now that we are talking about referrals, this will go into preparation and debate, and yes...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u109	Mr President! I too wish that this could still be considered in the government parties as to how to vote here when this comes to the vote. Mr Viitanen made a clear proposal to reject this bill and then turn to the Commission... But until tomorrow, there is still hope that someone will appreciate two million people living in a detached house. There are a lot of people who will vote for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u113	Madam President! Just as the Social Democrats say, this is a rather strange bill. It is strange precisely because it has already been said many times, given what the previous Parliament has said. I wasn't warned until this weekend. I haven't had time to read that bill. I have looked through the report and also through the protest of the Social Democrats, and I intend to support it. This is unnecessary bureaucracy and it is not useful at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u114	Mr President! Yes, as a new representative, one must wonder that if the previous Parliament has regarded this issue as extremely important — that is, when more than half of Finns live in detached houses in Finland, there are more than one million detached houses in Finland — and it has been felt that this energy certificate for old detached houses is unnecessary, it has become a popular movement, and many people in this Chamber have probably profiled on behalf of the opposition at the time, especially that this unnecessary regulation is being restricted, so now that this Parliament is making a decision on this matter, six representatives are in the Chamber, according to my calculations. In other words, this implies that the government's view of parliamentaryism, but apparently also of its own decision-making, is so bad that when you are not here in the Chamber to defend your own motion, will you defend it among the citizens when they come to ask? It is not a proper or honest political action, then, that hands are being spread in the tents of the elections and that we are ignorant and even opposed to a self-declared proposal which will be carried out on a voluntary basis, despite the fact that the previous Parliament has already taken the opposite decision and has obliged the government to act in favour of more sensible regulation in the EU. On very good grounds it is justified that this issue could be postponed very well for a few months, hardly any of it would follow, but now, under the conditions, we want to take the fall of several hundred euros to ordinary Finnish residents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u115	Mr President! I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. Mr Nylund for this speech and for his support. I think it was very important that you expressed it. It does seem to me that now, Mr Niikko, for you too, it is still very much worth having this debate in your group. Until tomorrow, there will be time, and so will the assembly and the center. I would point out that the speakers of the delegation were also very critical of this issue at the time, and that is why it seems a little sad for the ordinary homeowner and the ordinary citizen to say in other speeches that it is not good, or let us keep our mouths on the matter and let it go through when, with one act, because the vote, we could still withdraw this and, quite rightly, discuss with Mr Tiilikainen whether he would now come to a different thought on this matter. I don't understand why we've come to this. I do not understand why bullheadedly this is being carried forward, and that is why I really hope for further reflection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u116	Partly for the sole, part of the second reading will be presented in order of 6. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 2/2016 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the Treaty and the Protocol and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u117	Mr President! Of course, the Spanish tax convention includes a neighbouring country, Portugal. When Portugal has attracted Finnish pensioners, most prominently the former directors of large listed companies, the previous government took steps to change the unfair tax treaty. Elections and prolonged government formation have prolonged the situation in a way that tests the patience of Finns. It is therefore right that the Minister of Finance has launched a consultation on the unilateral dismantling of the whole agreement. This decision, if it is to be taken, must be dealt with by Parliament before the summer. The ideal situation is, however, that there is a similar tax agreement with both countries in the Iberian Peninsula, even with regard to the pensioners who are fully entitled to plan in which sunny country their old age days are. That is why I would like to make a statement for the approval of Parliament, which hastens to implement the Portuguese tax treaty at the same time as the Spanish tax agreement. The statement reads as follows: 'The Commission requires a corresponding tax agreement with Portugal to be brought before Parliament as quickly as possible and to be brought into force at the same time as the tax agreement with Spain.'
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u118	Madam President! All in all, this draft law is a good one, which means that there is a clear lack of clarity here, and that is what Mr Urpilainen put the preparation into motion at the time of the last period. We Social Democrats have been very demanding here that we should not overlook these situations. In addition to a good draft law, we would like to draw attention to the fact that this case in Portugal is currently under way and we want to rush it, and that is why, President, I support this excellent statement made by Mr Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u119	Mr President! I agree with the view expressed here that it is very good that this bill is being brought forward and that this agreement has been reached with Spain. Thank you, above all, to our Minister for Finance, who has been active here, as he is very busy in handling this matter in Portugal. It goes without saying that every Finn will be allowed to retire anywhere, but the fact that a country offers tax exemption is unfair competition, and now this system with Spain after that is very good. Of course, when a representative of the government party was just needed, I would have liked to see former finance minister Antti Rinne here today to discuss why this issue was not being put in order with Spain during his term of finance minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u120	Mr President! As I said, this was already explicitly initiated by socialist ministers and has now been completed. I think, Mr Satonen, that we have nothing to be ashamed of as regards what we have achieved to combat tax evasion or, for example, to combat a largely grey economy. We have been wondering why the government took such a passive line on both of these: on the contrary, there were proposals being brought here, or there were going to be proposals that would actually encourage various tax evasion opportunities or active tax planning. Fortunately, then, with the opposition and a little pressure from civil society, this has been abandoned. The second issue, perhaps more broadly related to this in a certain sense, is the whole of the grey economy, on the whole, the fact that we are able to collect enough taxes and not circumvent them. I say yes that it was very surprising that at the beginning of this period the government gave up these programmes to combat the black economy, the money was cut off, then some money was later returned, which was of course important, but yes, these issues should be dealt with more quickly, because yet these are an essential part of the fact that we are going to be able to finance this welfare society of ours now and in the future, and then we will not have to do the brutal cutting policy that the government is doing today, after we have seen the students, the employees, the unemployed, the pensioners at the barricades, and no wonder. That's why, in the sense of the fairness of the game, people assume that everyone is on the same line, that everyone is on the same boat, and not that only others there are wearing life jackets. We've got to have everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u121	Mr President! I have no doubt that the Social Democrats have a sincere will to promote this issue and also to promote this matter in Portugal, but of course it does seem a little strange that it is now very much required that things should be done more quickly with Portugal when, when we were responsible, we were not even able to deal with this issue of Spain. That in that sense the results speak for themselves, this government has been able to put this in order, and I believe that this government is also able to put this Portuguese matter in order. It is a good thing that the opposition itself supports these things, but now they are actually happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u122	I would just like to say that Mr Satonen has now spoken a little prematurely about this tax agreement in Portugal. We would not rush it if it had not been in this machinery for a relatively long time and had not been helped by this negative publicity. So let us hope that it will be a solution, and that is what we are in favour of. But with regard to this tax planning and the fight against the shadow economy in general, it must now be pointed out that Minister Urpilainen was at the very forefront of the EU in his day. He held a meeting of EU finance ministers here in Helsinki, where, at the time, only at the initiative of Finland, the prevention of aggressive tax planning was strongly on the agenda, and specifically at the request of Finland. Now the EU has become involved in this and has taken vigorous action, which is extremely commendable, but now I have to say that Finland has now been more than just a brakeman in such a passive bystander's role. As Mr Viitanen said there, we were ashamed to bring legislative proposals to Parliament, which would have pardoned a million tax evaders and could have hidden assets in management registers. It does not show any serious government involvement in this major international problem of tax evasion and tax planning. Now, thanks to the EU and thanks for its vigorous efforts there, these things will also be put right in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u123	Madam President! I welcome the fact that Minister Urplainen was active at European level and at Finnish level during his own term of Minister for Finance in order to curb the shadow economy and aggressive tax planning. With regard to this agreement in Portugal, which I hope will be reformed, I believe that it is entirely justified that, when we act both at OECD level and at EU level today, there should not be such tax havens as these, in which companies get completely out of taxation or then manage to minimise it to a ridiculous extent, it should be quite justified that there should not be tax havens for individuals in Europe, for example, that individuals should be able to avoid the taxation of their pensions altogether. Portugal is currently appearing as such tax havens under certain conditions, and it is entirely justified that this situation should be changed by the government and Parliament. I hope that negotiations with Portugal will find a solution which, for example, will tax pension income in one country and in all fairness, as it should be. But if it is not possible to move forward with Portugal, then the Finnish Government will have to consider a unilateral solution to which, as I recall, Denmark too has gone, which means that the current tax agreement has been terminated in order to get rid of this unsatisfactory situation and this sort of tax haven in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u124	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz for the recognition he gave to the work of Minister Urplainen. I believe that we in Parliament have a complete consensus that tax havens, both for individuals and for businesses, must be eradicated from Europe, and here we are cooperating seamlessly across the opposition-government line. I firmly agree with Mr Zyskowicz that, if the Portuguese Government does not act in the way that is required by Finland, there will certainly also be a broad consensus in Parliament that this agreement must be terminated. Finland has quite a number of tax treaties around the world, but perhaps in this context it is also useful to pay attention to the urgent cases where a tax treaty is needed outside Europe. In this respect, I would like to encourage the government to act swiftly to ensure that, for all Latin American countries, which are becoming increasingly important in economic terms, there is a tax agreement between Finland and that country, and above all Chile, Colombia and Peru. In this respect, we hope and expect the government to act decisively.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u125	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-15-ps-24.u126	Madam President! This government proposal concerns the law on driving licences to be amended so that the validity periods and age limits in duplicate driving licences will be changed. In other words, we have had the habit of driving a driving licence until the age of 70, unless other clearly health-related disadvantages have come and the driving licence could not be taken off or reviewed. It is based on the 2003 change. I dug up this information quickly here, and it was mentioned that licences issued after January 2013 will be issued for an initial period of 15 years and will therefore have to be applied for renewals. So all these licences would be valid up to 2033. What is the reason for this government proposal now: it seems to be because, according to this committee's report, this driving licence directive and the changes there have already come in 2006, Finland has been brought before the EU Court of Justice because Finland has not fully implemented this directive. That's how I understood this. So, what's the problem with this government proposal? The main problem is that, in this proposal, those citizens who, for example, lose their driving licence or get remarried will have to renew their driving licence but will not have the validity of their driving licence for as long as they currently have, for example. For example, it has been suggested that the period of validity of the licence for heavy goods vehicles in the future will be no more than 5 years at a time and 15 years for the driver of the car. What is the point of a person getting married and changing his name, in the name of road safety, being required to have a shorter driving licence than he now has? I think this raises the constitutional question that how can this artificial reason be used to restrict the rights acquired in the past to a shorter extent. Secondly, losing a driving licence alone means having to reapply for a driving licence which is again shorter in time than, for example, the driving licence currently in existence. In that sense, I would like to ask, now that this is a first reading and this is still on the table, why, for example, the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not been asked. I believe that this would require their attention on this issue. The fear here is that this EU directive can be repeated as a mistake, as is the case in some totalitarian states, to limit the duration of the identity card because it has been a very effective way of controlling people in history. For example, in Russia there is this kind of internal passport that keeps new twice in life, and this leads to the fact that those who do not have an internal passport, it is very difficult to travel inside Russia, let alone do business. And now that we remember that there is no such official identity card in Finland, a pictorial certificate of more than 5 years or 10 years, this will remove the last official identity card that they have been able to use up to 70 years of age. In that sense, Mr President, I would like to see attention paid to the possibility, at the same time, of extending considerably the duration of this official identity card, which can also be applied for from the police, for example. I do not think there is any reason to prevent citizens from not going to the authorities as if to check their identity cards every 5 years or every 15 years. I do not think that this is in any way the right direction in the European Union, let alone in Finland, where it is customary for citizens not to go to the Authority if they do not want to do so themselves. However, the ID is such a basic document that every person needs in his life constantly, and in that sense it should be made easier to obtain and extended. Mr President! I hope that this issue will be taken into account in this debate.
