ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Administrative Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u2	Madam President! The Government proposes to provide for the decision-making procedure of the supreme state bodies when granting and requesting international assistance from the law. The dramatic attacks in Paris in November last year highlighted the timeliness of this legislative process. It is important that there are no legal barriers to participation in the provision or reception of bilateral assistance in Finland. The law is about giving clear decision-making procedures to Finland so that Finland can, if necessary and so decide, provide and request international assistance. The law strengthens Finland’s readiness to participate in international cooperation in crisis situations. The law allows national decision-making in the provision and reception of assistance within the EU framework and in wider international cooperation. The law would allow the implementation of the EU mutual assistance clause and the solidarity clause. It is also a question of strengthening Nordic cooperation. The European Union's Treaty of Lisbon clauses on mutual assistance and solidarity are an expression of solidarity between Member States. They strengthen the possibilities for providing and requesting assistance in crisis situations. Finland is not known to be within NATO's security guarantees and is not in the process of implementing them, but we are within the framework of EU mutual assistance. The EU country under military attack has the right to invoke the Lisbon aid clause and to expect assistance from other Member States accordingly. Finland helped France with terrorist attacks. We are prepared for our part to provide assistance when asked for. Similarly, Finland expects help if needed. The Lisbon obligations strengthen the European Union as a security community. Over the last few years, international order and agreed principles have been under great pressure. Russia's efforts in Crimea and Ukraine led to a major change in the security situation in Europe, which is still under way. Finland must assess these changes and impact on our national security and international cooperation. We are looking at this change as part of the Western community. Finland will also intensify cooperation with Sweden and other Nordic countries. The security policy importance of the Finnish NATO partnership has increased. The assessment of the security policy environment is carried out in connection with the preparation of the Government's report on foreign and security policy, which will be submitted to Parliament before the summer break. The preparation of the present draft law has taken into account the fact that there may be very different situations of assistance and reception. It is important that national decision-making procedures are such that decisions can be taken in changing situations and, if necessary, quickly. Madam President! The law would apply when deciding on significant international aid. The law would create a centralised decision-making procedure for the provision and request of international assistance in Finland. The law is not intended to slow down the functioning of the mechanisms already in place for assistance. Decisions on international assistance at ministerial or official level and decision-making on participation in crisis management would not be covered by the law. Another country, the European Union or an international organisation could ask for help. These could also be helped. It is clear that in the case of assistance, Finland takes into account the rules and obligations of international law. When providing and requesting assistance, the objectives and principles of the UN Charter and other rules of international law binding on Finland must be taken into account. According to the draft law, a decision on assistance would be taken by the General Assembly of the Government or by the President of the Republic on a proposal for a decision by the Government in accordance with the allocation of powers provided for in the Constitution. The division of powers between the President of the Republic and the Government is recorded in the draft proposal by repeating the practice of the Constitutional Committee. This is not the way to address the division of competences. The role of Parliament in aid situations has, of course, been one of the key issues in the preparation of the legislative proposal. Parliament would be linked to the decision-making process if providing or requesting assistance would involve the use of military force. This would be done by consulting the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Parliament. If the decision concerns a particularly demanding situation, the Government should consult the Parliament as a whole by providing it with a report. The law would also include provisions on the urgency procedure for situations where it is not possible to take a decision quickly enough in a very urgent and serious situation. The decision would then be taken by the ministry concerned. Mr President! The urgency procedure would concern cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and the Nordic countries. As a general rule, the urgency procedure would not be able to decide on military aid. However, such assistance could include the use of military force in a very exceptional situation where it would be necessary to combat the immediate threat to the lives or health of a large number of people. In this case, the President of the Republic would make a decision to present the Commander in such a way that the Minister of Defence should be present and express his views on the matter. The Prime Minister may also be present and express his views on the matter. Of course, this law is only part of the whole. The changes to its sectoral legislation prepared by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence make it possible to provide and request assistance in practice. The package should therefore be considered as a whole. These proposals are to be submitted to Parliament during the current spring session. Mr President! This legislative project has been under preparation for several years. This shows that this is an important issue and that the preparation has been thorough. It is good to get the decision-making procedures in place so that Finland has the capacity to provide assistance and receive help in the interests of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u3	Let's have a few debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u4	Mr President! I very much agree with the Foreign Minister's approach here, but when he also talks about very urgent, extremely serious issues which may affect this decision-making system, then there may also be matters of the kind on the table, for decision and direction, which at the same time involve matters falling within the remit of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is very important, first of all, that decisions are not taken on the basis of a single party, even with regard to the Government, but also that it is not left to a single minister what decisions are taken. Foreign Minister Soini referred here to the decision of the minister concerned. I strongly appeal to the decision-making of the three ministries to be synchronised and to the issue to be considered as often as possible also from the point of view of what falls within the competence of the prime head of foreign and security policy, the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u5	Let's continue with a few debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u6	Mr President! First of all, I agree with Mrs Kanerva's argument, the problem of giving aid in decision-making, and the formula for receiving aid is familiar, in a way, three locks. After all, in the most demanding situations a formula has been tested for participation in crisis management operations, we have been using it for many years and it has worked very well, three democratic locks in succession. It is important that, even in new situations, if or when they occur, Parliament is always kept very up-to-date, preferably in the first instance rather than in the event of the facts that have occurred, preferably in relation to Parliament's information and the question of its position. After all, this will be a major change for many reasons, and that will then be reflected in the law to be adopted later, including when correcting, a small amount of the Defence Forces Act, which adds to the Defence Forces a fourth task, which is new and very demanding, which requires much consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u7	Madam President! I also support Mrs Kanerva's view that as far as this type of task and decision-making is concerned, a parliamentary margin should be guaranteed as far as possible. I will not comment on the composition of the current government, but the situation in which the same party has key ministers in the field of foreign policy and defence policy is not the most desirable from the point of view of parliamentarianism. I would like to raise another point, and that is the situation if we are to be sidelined in the use of military force in the event of crises. A situation that may arise may lead to a situation where Finnish men and women are sent to military operations abroad. I believe that sending these people to a task without their own voluntary consent is the wrong approach. Rather, in terms of our performance, we should seek the solutions of the past, that is to say, of the voluntary nature of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u8	Mr President! It has become clear that this kind of legislation is needed, but it is equally clear that such legislation in practice is only used in extremely few situations. The threshold and consideration must be very high before we start moving. This decision-making process, which has been presented here, seems quite reasonable and logical, and in these normal situations Parliament will always be able to deal with in an appropriate manner, either in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or in the light of the challenges that will be faced in plenary. A small problem is included in this urgency procedure. It seems that there may be situations where parliamentary considerations are rather thin, and it is desirable that the committee should consider whether medicinal products can be found there. It may not be, but in any case, this issue should be considered, because I personally consider this parliamentary backrest to be very important in these operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u9	Madam President! As Mr Soini has said very well here, this is a very important piece of legislation. This will eliminate the lack we have had in this international security policy cooperation. We have not been able to apply the Treaty of Lisbon to the end in certain circumstances, if any. This now allows us to be fully involved with other European countries in the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon. This is a very clear law and, of course, it must not result in Finland being enthusiastically involved in various projects, but in extremely rare situations in which there is a real European crisis which requires solidarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u10	Mr President! Parliament's information is always particularly important, and there have been reminders this year that things have not gone quite right. The clarity of legislation is always a matter to be pursued; it is a matter of clarity. However, under the guise of clarity it must not be allowed to drive Finland to abandon even part of its own space — especially in the case of foreign and security policy and defence policy — when the Treaty of Lisbon, however, approved certain national specialities in certain countries, and especially in Finland, they must not be ignored or forgotten. But with interest I took note of the Minister’s fresh speech. When we talk about European security here too, you quite simply signed President Obama's position on a united and strong European Union. Could you clarify, as a former strong EU critic, what this means?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u11	Madam President! Mr Kanerva raised these possible decisions on exceptional and urgent situations and the need for cooperation between the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Interior. Indeed, in view of these recent crises, threats and terrorism, the internal and external security borders have been blurred and this cooperation is indeed needed. In this decision-making process, the central body for the government is the Committee of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the President of the Republic and the Government. One structural problem is that the Minister of the Interior does not have a permanent mandate and a permanent chair in the decision-making process in UTUVA. During the last parliamentary term, the party chairmen had the opportunity for this permanent place there, but this parliamentary term does not have it for our Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u12	Madam President! It is high time we brought our current legislation up to date on this too. The shortcomings of the current legislation have been highlighted in a number of situations, so the government's proposal is really needed and is very important. If military assistance is to be provided, it must also be possible to give it to others. This is quite self-evident. As Minister Soini said earlier, this proposal is only part of the whole. I would like to ask when both ministers, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are present: at what time can the proposal to amend the Defence Forces Act be expected here as a government proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u13	Madam President! Of course, there must be a parliamentary margin and the fact that, in these possible crisis situations, Parliament has been informed and the mandate can be found here must be taken care of. This legislation and this bill will take it into account. But there are two points I would like to draw attention to specifically in relation to this law on the Defence Forces and its future — when, in future, we will also need soldiers outside the borders of the country, and this bill will make it possible or will require it. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence what are the strengths of Finland. It is certainly not worth having a thorn open so to speak that we can take part in all possible tasks. What are the strengths of Finland in which we can participate and contribute to this common defence of the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u14	Madam President! Somehow I feel that there is quite a lot going on now when the Battlegroup was here last week in the debate and the military law is going on in that Committee on Defence and the committee has also hoped that this obligation of assistance would be discussed extensively. Of course, this is a good part of the visit today. The European Union is a good safeguard for us, and that is why we support this idea that the obligation to provide assistance should also be made concrete in Finnish legislation. But we do have good experience of crisis management legislation and the history of decades, I understand, of 60 years, on the side so that everyone who goes there has voluntarily gone there. With the Finnish Defence Forces so far based on Finnish soldiers defending Finland’s borders — there is an order to do so — can it now be that Finnish soldiers are ordered to defend the Turkish border or the French border, Portugal, England, Ireland, for example? I wouldn't want this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u15	Madam President! It is important to clarify this obligation of assistance and how it works in practice. At the same time, however, it must be made very clear that no legislation will automatically bring Finland into that situation. Without a decision of its own, it cannot automatically be expected of us to consider what aid is. Finland is a militarily non-aligned country, and we must have the full possibility of considering how to proceed in the future. Another essential point, of course, is that this must also be voluntary for those who go out for possible operations, not by forcing Finnish women or men into operations. Last but not least, when many parties, including the current government party, have spoken very much against federal development, which is more federal than if we try to create common armed forces for the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u16	Mr President! It is important that this bill is now coming to us when it is clear that we have problems with how we can receive and receive international aid. We know that the UN is also planning changes and criteria for the possibility of requiring states to ask for assistance in the same way if they do not themselves cope with a major accident, for example, so this legislation is also important and, of course, from this EU perspective. This is a very important point that has already been taken into account in this decision-making system, but it is also important to take account of this position, particularly in relation to the people who are already working with the Defence Forces, and whether they can be obliged to leave retrospectively. Of course then for the new staff, if even then during the recruitment phase you know that this kind of obligation is, it is clear, but certainly this status of existing staff needs to be paid attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u17	A few more speeches, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u18	Madam President! It is easy to agree with Mrs Kanerva's speech on the decision-making process. However, the Treaty of Lisbon is directly binding on the countries and when 11. On 1 June 2008, Parliament approved the Treaty of Lisbon and we are now in the process of updating our national legislation so that we can respond to what we have promised in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to what we have been promised. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence about this possible obligation for the soldiers and whether it is possible to find a solution that could be used on a voluntary basis. For a non-military country, these clauses of the Treaty of Lisbon, 42.7 and 222, and their broadest interpretation, are, in my view, an advantage, and that is what we in the EU must promote together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u19	Mr President! There have been many Finns in peacekeeping operations and will continue to exist in the future. Operations are different, and mandates will change too, but there is always a risk and risk associated with these operations. There have been injuries and even loss of life, and these rehabilitation operations have been somewhat unclear. Is this matter becoming clearer now that this mode of action is expanding slightly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u20	Madam President! There has been a good debate here, and I think that representatives of Kanerva and Kari have carried out a good political analysis of how decision-making should go. There must be reflection, but I would like to reiterate what the representatives of Arhinmäki and Mustajärvi have pointed out, that we must have that discretion of our own, and in particular this must be focused on the possibility of volunteering, which means that no one who goes to military service commits himself to this after going to the military, so to speak, but must have the opportunity to influence whether he is available to such forces. But what is important is that we do not make the rapid reaction force the slowest force in the world because we have a decision-making process so long that the crisis is already over when we have a decision here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u21	Three replies, followed by comments from both ministers. These three persons are representatives of Hoskonen, Tuppurainen and the Sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u22	Madam President! It is good that this legislation on the request for and delivery of international aid is finally updated. As a Member of the European Union, we are involved in this work, of course, when we are members of the Union, and the situations in which assistance is needed are certainly to be expected in the future. Hopefully they will not happen now, but everyone should be prepared and of course Finland must be an active member of the Union. To this end, the legislation must be put in place, but it must also be taken care of, for example, by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Antti Kaikkonen, who has just made a good speech, that the democratic margin must be in order and then, depending on the seriousness of the situation. But it is essential that the legislation is in order, that assistance is sought and given if it is needed, and thirdly, that we also have a Parliament in this decision-making process so that we can have up-to-date information according to what the situation is and, if the situation is very serious, of course, Parliament will take part in these events, as Mrs Kaikkonen has said. What is important, however, is that legislation is finally being put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u23	Madam Speaker! This is a very important issue for Finland. For us, the European Union is a very important, in fact, our fundamental security solution. It is now a question of how we, for our part, will act by strengthening the EU as a security community, how we will be a responsible member and how we will fulfil our own obligations in implementing the mutual assistance and security clauses under the Treaty of Lisbon. It is excellent that this proposal is now being submitted to Parliament, and it is also excellent to hear responsible ministers speak about the importance of the European Union for Finland and the desire to strengthen the integrity and unity of the European Union. Thank you very much, Mr Soini. We support this cooperation with the authorities, but when there is an opportunity to ask, I ask the question: how does the government intend to proceed in the framework of this military cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u24	Madam President! When Mr Arhinmäki mentioned that there is a party here that is opposed to European integration, I would assume that he is referring to the Finns of Finland. That is why I began to think about it and would have asked the party chairman, Minister Soin, the Foreign Minister, how you see this in this context. I would understand that this is a matter of self-determination for Finland, whether we are involved in this, and Finland also has the right to impose these measures. And if I understand correctly, our party has spoken more about these social and family rights and specifically that Finns are allowed to decide Finnish matters. I now wanted to take this into the debate, when Arhinmäki apparently addressed this to the People’s Party of Finland — we will now discuss that a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u25	And then the answers of the ministers. — Minister Soini, up to 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u26	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This is a very good and necessary debate with all the nuances that will come to this. Thank you in particular to Mr Mustajärvi for reading the full text of yesterday's speech. I'm hoping for the same industriousness of everyone else. Then, on behalf of Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Mustajärvi, and also on behalf of Mrs Meren and a few others, who can provide assistance to Finland under this law and how that help can be given. Finland decides for itself who to give help to and from whom to ask for help. So it's up to Finland to decide for itself. No one will decide this for us, neither the European Union nor Russia nor the USA or anything else. Finland decides if it wishes to do so, and Finland decides to ask if it wishes to do so. There is no necessity, but this is an enabling law. That is what this is all about. And in order not to forget, Mr Mustajärvi: Mr Barack Obama, the President of the United States, if we are to compare the current debate in the United States, has, in my opinion, presented views on foreign and security policy. This is the EU we are in now. I believe that Mr Mustajärvi and I voted in the same way on accession to the European Union at the time, but now that the majority of the people have voted, the water under the canoe will be paddled even if the little one whistles. Mrs Kanerva started this debate with a very good speech, and that is exactly what I hope you will go through in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in an expert hearing. Also Mrs Kääriäinen and Vice-President Salolainen. This is extremely important, and we cannot have any success in this matter if we do not get this widely understood and discussed by Parliament, committees and others, and also in such a way that if there is something here that we can specify and justify, then of course a good government will take them into account. There should not be questions of authority in matters of this size, but the interests of society and Finland must be decisive. Unfortunately, the previous Foreign Minister's Judgments went away, but this planning and lawmaking work has been going on for a very long time also during his term, and this has been taken seriously. More questions have been asked about where it is, rather as Mr Pelkonen said that we had been waiting for 2008 and now it came here. This is a difficult matter. There are areas of competence involved, but I would also like to make it clear that there will be no change in the relationship between the President of the Republic and the Government. We particularly want to follow the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is extremely important that constitutionality and power relations are dealt with here in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would assume that when this goes to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the opinions come from at least the defence, the Constitutional Committee and who they decide to ask. This is extremely good. Time runs. I believe that Mr Niinistö will be able to complete this, but I hope that this debate will take place. This is what is needed now in a changing world, and the purpose of everything is, of course, to avoid these situations through good foreign and security policy and international cooperation. That's what we're trying to do. But if we do not avoid, then we will have a path and we will always decide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u27	And Minister Niinistö, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u28	Madam President! Among other things, representatives Kari, Arhinmäki, Heinonen and Myllykoski raised the question of a possible future legal obligation for Defence Forces personnel to participate in the provision of international military assistance. This question is part of a draft law prepared by the Ministry of Defence, which will be submitted to Parliament in the coming weeks, but may I say something about it at this stage. The starting point for preparation is that the tasks of international assistance are subject to official duty. We assume that, if requested, we will provide the best possible assistance. And there is also the question of Mr Savola. As Minister of Defence, I see that we are giving international military assistance to those national defence abilities and experts that we have for our own needs. Of course, priority is given to the use of people who have declared their willingness and who belong to crisis management pools, but it is not worthwhile and should not exclude the possibility that, in some circumstances, no doubt a rare one, may have to resort to the right of management. The Defence Administration's personnel organisations have required a separate commitment procedure and the establishment of separate personnel pools for this purpose. A separate commitment procedure would require substantial additional funding for the defence budget and separate staff pools would be absent from national defence tasks. I do not think we can afford this. Finally, it is exactly as Mr Pelkonen said: if we want help, we must also be prepared to give it, and we must have credible preparedness. That is why the answer is yes, ultimately forced, but hopefully it will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u29	Let's just take a little more time to do this debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u30	Madam President! As has now been shown in several speeches, this legislation is very necessary and thank the government for taking care of it now. However, as a former professional soldier, I now raise one issue which I find problematic: For example, the military oath states that I want to defend the integrity of my country everywhere and in all situations during peace and war, and there is no commitment here either in the cadet promise or in the official oath to defend the integrity of the European Union or of any other country. I see this as a slight problem and I would like to think about it — now that we are dealing with it and when we will get proposals from the Ministry of Defence on how it is to be done — whether we need to change, for example, the form of the oath, the form of the oath of office, so that people know when they leave and commit themselves to the military service that they may also commit themselves to defending other countries by a decision of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u31	Mr President! Indeed, this debate proves that we have one foreign policy — which has been almost a dogma — and here too we are at the centre of a great consensus. It is extremely important that there is clear legislation on such issues, despite the hope that this law will never have to be used. This is legislation that makes it possible. The potential does not mean that this is for some war-torn rambos, but unfortunately, in a bad world, crises are a reality and it is good to prepare for them. Today, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, too, there has been a debate on the clarity of these relations of power in connection with the amendment of the military law. It is extremely important that this is also clearly stated in this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u32	Madam President! Membership of the European Union is also a security policy solution for Finland, and now this debate and this bill here is a clear step forward in the EU's security policy dimension. And when Minister Soini here said that the water that goes under the canoe is paddled, you can see that the minister The Soini has put the canoe in motion, deepening the EU's integration on this side, and for this Minister Soini and the entire government deserve their thanks. Although it was clearly the case that the French attack had the effect that the government was finally bringing this legislation into Parliament as early as 2008, the whole government, and Minister Soini in particular, deserves fair and fair recognition for this. It is good that a unanimous motion has been found here. There were also those who for a long time laughed at whether these aid clauses mattered. But, Mr President, I would like to ask what Mr Soini thinks about whether the Minister for the Interior should be a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. I think we should.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u33	Mr President! There's an important conversation going on here. Let us think that we are increasingly dependent on each other in the international community, and the security side is also becoming more and more involved. It is true, however, that we have to insist strongly that Finland will continue to make its own decisions as to what kind of help it will provide. Of course, it will be necessary to clarify in the future what the specific strengths are, the specific tasks in which Finland should be and Finland will really be able to provide concrete assistance in the future in different situations. These scenarios deserve further consideration, including from the perspective of officers who train us to defend the country. In that regard, Mr Kärnä also referred specifically to what will be the future — how the Minister sees — the willingness to apply to, for example, the National Defence College, if you think that such a duty arises. I would think that we should continue to be voluntary in this commitment. Could you think that this commitment could already take place, for example, at the training stage when officers are trained, or what would be the procedure?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u34	Madam President! Minister Niinistö has now opened up a few curtains about the angle that is coming to this, so that the best is desired. In a way, I would now like to challenge the minister as to whether a person who is obnoxious, no matter how good he is at his job, is the best possible solution. In that sense, I would ask that we give serious consideration, as has already been pointed out in this previous speech, to the fact that voluntary expression is the expression of our own will on what we want. We have never done well by force, and I do not believe that even in this solution a Finnish man, a woman who participates in the defence of the country, could be forced to take part in measures within the territory of another country or the EU if she does not want to do so from the point of view of her own conviction or Finnishness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u35	Madam President! Indeed, since 2008, Parliament has been waiting, and thank you to this government for giving Parliament what it had previously ordered. The EU's defence dimension is evolving and is now moving in the right direction, because security threats are also moving in the direction that these threats need to be prepared for. Article 127 of the Constitution defines the use of armed forces for the defence of the country of origin, and it is good that ministers are particularly monitoring, in the words of Foreign Minister Soin, the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the tasks to be carried out on a voluntary basis. I would encourage the Minister of Defence to further investigate this separate staff pool or similar arrangement for the purpose of volunteering for foreign missions. I am referring only now to the draft law in the Committee on Defence, in which the government amended its proposal on the Commander's right to invite 25,000 men to a refresher exercise. You can comb these things a little bit in advance. And there is an initiative on the second floor of the year ago that I took to become a permanent member of SG-UTVA, the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u36	Madam President! This proposal is a great step forward in our legislation. However, I remained to reflect on that cross-administrative aspect, because in a changing world the threats are also becoming more complex. I would like to ask the ministers: how would you assess the state of our legislation insofar as the request for international aid concerns, for example, environmental or health disasters, i.e. whether our legislation is at an adequate level as regards crises that go beyond the ministries?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u37	Mr President! It is good that at least ministers seem to have the same position as the President — and I believe that the majority of MPs — that is to say, if we are talking about Finland, then there must be a full right to decide who gives, what to give, who to receive and what to receive when a concrete situation arises. But when I referred to that visit by Obama to Britain, it also has a foreign and security and even defence policy dimension. I think that it is quite violent to move that the head of the most powerful state in the world will guide the country of the European Union to what they should think. And it is worth remembering that we are now preparing a battle party in which the UK is the one in charge, in charge. And even if Britain's decision to join the EU is negative, this operation will not be cancelled, but it will also have defence policy implications in the future. Then we need to think about it — and not at least close its eyes — what relations between the United States, NATO and the EU in foreign and security policy and defence policy are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u38	Mr President! Minister of Foreign Affairs Soini, you stressed that Finland always makes its own decision to provide assistance and to receive assistance, and this is certainly the case, and here too, Article 2 of the Act. It's clear what they're saying. However, this clause on mutual assistance between the European Union is binding on all Member States. In that sense, this does create a somewhat tense situation, given these practical situations, and raises the question of whether the Member State could then also take a negative decision not to participate in the aid to which it is required, while the Member State itself has the right to take that decision. I hope that you will give us a little more analysis of what this sovereignty, then, is in practice when it comes to the obligation to provide assistance and assistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u39	Mr President! When this debate went, at least in part, to this question of voluntary service, I myself wanted to comment on this, because I do find it problematic situations where we would have to force some soldiers in theory into rather distant operations, at least in theory. And when these crisis management operations, in which we are involved, are voluntary and work well — they have been found well and good soldiers involved — can you, Minister of Defence, put into practice what would be a situation in which people should be forced to do something? Did you really think that this job is just not gonna work unless there's a lock on it? I was a little touched, for example, by what Mr Kärnä mentioned, by this military oath and by the commitment to defend his own country. I do think that, above all, this should be voluntary, preferably not forced at all, or, if it is necessary, then there must be a very rare and exceptional situation in the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u40	Four more replies will be made and then the answers of the ministers, if they wish to use them. These four persons are representatives of Salolainen, Arhinmäki, Käärääinen and Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u41	Madam President! This debate has highlighted this provision of assistance. It must be noted that it is just as important to be able to ask for help, that it is completely left in the side. And if you look at the history of Finland, this is the important point. If we get tough, then we can also ask for help and expect it. Another thing that cannot be ignored in this context, and which must be seen honestly, is that there may be situations where, for example, the Baltic States have to ask for assistance in accordance with the Lisbon principles, and then, in such a situation, there will be a rather sensitive situation for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u42	Madam President! Foreign Minister Soini pointed out that Obama's line has been relatively satisfied, and this is, of course, the case. It is interesting when the elections in the United States are now coming and in some way the Republican presidential candidate — probably — Donald Trump comes to mind by the then chairman and representative of the Finns: the speeches are tough, but then after the elections — if he is elected — perhaps in the same way as the Foreign Minister. My chord changes, maybe Donald Trump turns into Hillary Clinton. Madam President! Finland’s strength in these operations could be different evacuation tasks, environmental disasters, humanitarian aid. In other words, it is necessary for the country itself to be able to assess what the best areas of expertise are. But when I referred to this federal development, I specifically referred to the EU Commission’s proposal — there is a preliminary study of defence research and then possible
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u43	Mr President! Minister Niinistö has probably already noted that more than one speaker has taken part in this voluntary—must-be-situation-in-constructive spirit. My assessment is that this will go up when it comes to dealing with it, quite in a way, at the focal point. If, through the debates in this House, there is a broad consensus that voluntaryness must be the guiding principle, Minister Niinistö, do you think that you could be there to discuss and change this basic approach here in the direction of voluntary service, what does it look like now? Secondly, we are talking here about the extreme situation of war or crisis, some very serious situation that threatens the nation in one way or another. I would like to emphasise that we must be prepared for all of these in exactly the way we have done and done, but I would like to emphasise that in many cases a wise foreign policy, a proactive foreign policy, good relations in different directions, is the primary way of keeping this nation in peace and security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u44	Mr Heinonen, then the answers of the ministers, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u45	Madam President! Mr Räsänen rightly wondered whether we could actually say 'no'. This brings us to the question of whether these EU security guarantees will genuinely help us. After all, in Sweden there has already been a debate and reflection about whether these safeguards really have meaning and added value to the country's security in the final game. Mr Soini, you pointed out that there is room for thought here and that the decision is taken separately each time. Is that really the case, however, once that agreement, which our country has approved by 151 Members of Parliament, states that if a Member State is subjected to armed attack on its territory, the other Member States will have an obligation to provide assistance to it with all the means at their disposal? I would like to hear more about this possibility of being flexible and saying 'no' because if we say 'no' then probably when we need help and ask for help, we will also be easily told 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u46	Minister Soini, please. Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u47	Madam President! Let's start with these compliments. Congressman Lindtman, those compliments are fine. The snakes could have tied differently, but they're good for it now anyway. Mr Arhinmäki: I am very relieved and pleased that you have not lost a sense of humor, even though you will no longer be chairman but will soon give it up. This, too, is encouraging that we can continue to break the word of the hives. A few things. The fact that Finland decides who to help and from whom to ask. Well, then comes this... — Where is Mr Heinonen now? He's gone. The same thing Mr Räsänen referred to, aid, it is, in a way, morally and legally binding on us in one way or another, but of course we define what help we are giving, that there is no automatic, that now we have to give that amount of money and that amount of soldiers, but it would of course be a very bad rhyme if we decided to send wool socks in the aid. This is not the way it's meant to be. What Mrs Kääriäinen said about a wise foreign policy should be kept in mind in the letter of fire. So all the time we have to do it so that things like this don't happen. But if it does, I also attached great importance to Vice-President Salolainen's speech, that is, if we get into a situation — which I think was excellent, because almost all the speeches here were something else — then we will do this for selfish reasons too: if we are to be helped. That was an important point. Mr Myllykoski, we also need the support of the Left Alliance, and I am very pleased that the Left Alliance is also interested in those people who have exercised the privilege of taking a military oath and defending Finland. It is also an extremely good signal from the Left Alliance. Representative Elovaara, just like that, which means there must be interministerial cooperation. This was an absolutely central point when the terrorist attack in Brussels took place: there was immediately a crisis organisation in the State Department and information was received from various ministries. This is essential. Let us take the sugar at the bottom, which is certainly the position of the Minister of the Interior. In practice, during this government, the Home Secretary Orpo has been there at almost every meeting due to this refugee situation. This must always be the case if there is a matter in SG-UTVA that touches on the affairs of a minister for the sector, then he must be there to provide that information. Sometimes, even after the division of duties in the ministry, a firm international issue will ultimately be, for example, for the Minister of Justice, the final decision, and yes, of course, in that situation, he must be able to hear all the information and also give it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u48	Okay, here we go. - Yes, please, Minister Niinistö. Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Let us start by saying that the forthcoming government proposal on this subject prepared by the Ministry of Defence is planned to be submitted at the end of this month, so the debate on voluntaryity and coercion will certainly continue. It is envisaged that legislative proposals from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior will enter into force at the same time. Congressman Kärnä brought up a military oath. He referred to its sentence on defending the immunity of the country and wondered whether there was a need to change the pattern of the oath of office. This has been considered and will be considered, and probably also in the parliamentary committees. Representative Jarva took a bit of the lead in considering the readiness of future officers to pursue an officer’s career if such a coercion would arise. I wouldn't get ahead of myself this much. Congressman Myllykoski thought it was a bad thing to have to. I agree with you on such a general level — I am opposed, for example, to compulsory Swedish, There was also an example here, for example, Mrs Kaikkonen asked for an example. These would be very exceptional situations, and in fact I do not personally believe that they would even have to go to them. But let's just say the situation is that Swedish territorial waters would have a suspected submarine and Sweden would ask Finland for help. For example, a ship would be leaving Helsinki and it would appear that, for example, a military chef would think that I am not interested in this job, leave me at the port of Turku. Well, then we should leave him there, and then maybe that sub would have disappeared in that hook. So this is the theoretical model I'd be offering you. A very exceptional situation would undoubtedly be at stake. These may have been too much emphasised in this debate. Finally, it has to be said that this obligation is not about Finnish conscripts, conscripts or reservists, but that their use in international missions must continue to be voluntary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u50	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u51	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Just as has been mentioned here in the debate, it is important that Finland responds to the obligations that the EU solidarity clause and the mutual assistance clause create for us. We must be involved in promoting the security and peace of the EU and in obtaining and providing assistance in crisis situations. You don't leave a guy behind. However, this bill still needs to be carefully considered and evaluated at committee level. What is a particularly demanding situation? Is the term too general and over-interpreting? What military force does the law actually allow? Where is the limit of force? It is also quite appropriate to raise the issue of whether the duties of office which affect the status of an official who has already been appointed can be unilaterally and substantially changed. Would the duties of an official increase as a result of a change of law outside Finland’s borders? Today, those in military service have not been subject to international military duties, but have been based on voluntary service. However, it is a matter of putting the life or health of an official at risk. Can an essential change be made to the duty of military service without the individual’s own consent? I personally believe that, without my own consent, no one can be assigned to international military tasks. Mr President! Consideration must also be given to the impact of this on the availability of the Defence Forces' workforce if, in the case of new posts, leaving the country for military tasks is forced rather than voluntary. How will it affect if the domestic employment conditions were in place for international military assistance? After all, these may not even be suitable for international military missions, but would require a review of all mission descriptions and salaries. It is also critically important to consider that the conditions of the service relationship would not be different if the tasks of the set were the same as those of those performing the crisis management task. Perhaps the conditions of employment for international crisis management tasks should be used, which can be specified if necessary. There is already experience of this, and there are principles as regards accidents, for example. Mr President! It is also very critically important to consider in committee whether the draft law refers to the participation of Finnish soldiers in direct military operations and combat missions in the war zone or in warlike conditions outside Finland's borders. I regard this idea as a huge change in military policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u52	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! An interesting debate has been held here on European security. A large majority of the 28 EU countries, or 22, are now protected by NATO. Article 5 of NATO is an article of the North Atlantic Treaty which defines the obligation of NATO Member States to defend other Member States. According to it, an armed attack in Europe or North America against a Member State of NATO is considered to be an attack on all the Member States of the Union. On the basis of Article 5, only one security guarantee has been granted throughout the history of the Defence Union, and this happened after the 9/11 attacks. Even then, the request did not lead to action under Article 5 of NATO. Six other EU countries are not behind NATO security guarantees. They don't touch us. They don't oblige us. They don't give us security, of course they don't. The EU's own Treaty of Lisbon was signed on 13 December 2007, 10 years ago. The agreement has been ratified by all EU Member States and entered into force on 1 January. 31 December 2009. This Treaty of Lisbon has its own EU guarantee of security, Articles 42.7, the assistance clause, and 222, the solidarity clause, written in. In 2008, then State Secretary Teija Tiilikainen reported on the security guarantees contained in the Treaty of Lisbon. He carried out a report entitled The Report on the obligation to provide mutual assistance under the Treaty of Lisbon of the European Union. Publications of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs 2/2008. At the time, Mr Tiilikainen said that the Treaty had no weight on regional defence issues, since most countries were already part of the NATO umbrella and there was no real military threat of aggression against the EU. The new safeguard clause is therefore irrelevant for most countries and has been left loose. This was thus confirmed in 2008. Today the situation is quite different. In 2008, Teija Tiilikainen stated that it is also possible that the clause could be applied in a situation other than the actual military threat. What this could mean in practice remains to be seen and later interpreted. We have also seen this interpretation in recent years and in recent days. 2008 it was stated that Finland should also assess whether our country should prepare legally for a situation of forceful assistance to another country, and currently there are no such records in Finnish legislation," Tiilikainen said in his own report. And now, almost ten years later, these measures have been taken. However, the text of the agreement, which we have approved in Parliament — or the then MPs — by 151 Members of Parliament, states that if a Member State is subjected to armed attack on its territory, the other Member States are obliged to provide it with all the assistance they have at their disposal. The increased activity in the Baltic Sea and, among other things, the Swedish submarine case raised these concerns as early as 2008 about the obstacles to our legislation that Tiilikainen called for to help another country and to receive assistance. The terrorist attack in Paris last November highlighted, at least to date, the shortcomings of our legislation in the most serious way. Following the terrorist attack, French President François Hollande appealed to the 42.7 aid clause. This clause is binding directly on the Member States. It is therefore not binding on the EU. Article 5 of NATO requires a joint decision, but this EU 42.7 assistance clause does not. It is directly binding on all of us countries. It is therefore a direct obligation and a promise, adopted by the Finnish Parliament by 151 to 27 votes on 11 June 2008, to help another EU country and to get help from other EU countries. Therefore, France did not invoke the 222 solidarity clause, which was used after the Spanish terrorist attacks in 2004, but rather a more binding Article 42.7. We have a law on the Defence Forces that states to the Defence Forces their traditional tasks: their own defence, official support and international crisis management. It is therefore up to the Defence Forces to defend the country, to support other authorities and to participate in crisis management. Article 12, aid to another country, is in accordance with the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon’s 222 solidarity clause, but restricts the use of force. This debate today is more than timely and necessary, above all from the point of view of income, that we have the right to help and also to receive it at the worst moment. Perhaps in this previous debate a little too much attention was given to the fact that we are always the donor. It is not at all excluded that the situation could be the other way around. Mr President! I personally hope that we will have a broad and in-depth debate on these EU security guarantees, which will now be called, for example, their interpretation. For a country such as ourselves, which is not part of a military alliance, the widest possible interpretation of their security guarantees is of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u53	Mr President! Six months back, following the terrorist attacks in Paris, France's request for assistance to other EU countries was waked up by the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon clause for mutual assistance was not a dead letter. We will also remember Sweden’s submarine hunt in the next few years — some, more of them. In the last situation, it was found that Finland could not help its neighbouring country in this operation if it wanted to, because our legislation did not allow military resources to be used to support another country. There is good reason to change the legislative locks on a well-considered basis. For a long time, even before the tragic events in Paris, we in our country have prepared legislation that would enable decisions to be taken on the provision and reception of international assistance, other than in crisis management operations. However, I think, Mr President, that I do not wish this new legislation to be used very actively. We should not pursue the situation that we are moving out every month or even every year. The consideration and threshold must be at a high level. Mr President! Our legislation must support the fact that Finland takes the obligation to provide assistance under the Treaty of Lisbon seriously. Finland is prepared to provide assistance to other Member States if necessary, and we also expect to receive assistance from other Member States in the situations referred to in the obligation. There is probably a very broad consensus in this Chamber as well. The separate law now under discussion, followed by proposals from the Government of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, which will come to Parliament in the next few weeks, will enable us, above all, to be able, if necessary, to implement the obligations under the EU solidarity clause and the mutual assistance clause. When the proposals are implemented, they will also remove the legal locks from participation in operations such as the Swedish submarine hunt, if that is what we want. It is good to remember that even in these situations, we always make our own decisions. No automation system will therefore be built on assistance or request. The decision-making procedures are broadly in line with the decision to participate in crisis management operations. This seems logical and competent. The Supreme Government will continue to give careful consideration to where and what our forces will be deployed to the world if they are deployed. Furthermore, the application of the new law now being enacted will not be an everyday activity, but it can be said that it will be provided for in quite exceptional circumstances. It is important, Mr President, that any military role in the decision-making process should be heard by Parliament. According to the draft law, this will be done either in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or in the plenary session. The situation in the draft law, which requires urgent procedure, is somewhat problematic from this very point of view. A parliamentary role in decision-making may remain thin. This issue must be carefully addressed in the committee's deliberations and we must consider whether there is any way to strengthen the parliamentary backrest. Mr President! Finally, I would like to emphasise that legislation on the provision of international aid is only justified if it is to be carefully developed and amended. It must be ensured that the details of the changes are in order. These details appear later in the Ministry of the Interior's presentation of the administrative sector and in the Ministry of Defence's presentation of the administrative sector. We will then consider issues such as the status and competences of staff. Such an important issue to consider is the question of whether the departure of soldiers is based on voluntary or forced international missions in question. It appears that organisations representing the Defence Forces staff are emphasising voluntary service. So do I. I think it is desirable that those who leave are always strong primarily volunteers and do not need to be forced to use it at all. If this is not achieved, then only in particularly exceptional situations must compulsory action be taken. I think it is essential that this issue be carefully examined in the committee hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u54	Madam President! Many very good speeches have been made today about volunteering, as Mr Kaikkonen has just said, and I myself am very much in favour of volunteering. Unfortunately, the ministers have already left, but since the government proposal has not yet been submitted, we will certainly still be able to try to influence it. Staff may not be seconded to international military assistance under the conditions of domestic employment. Human resources organisations have also expressed their very clear views on this issue. It is simply not necessary to create a sustainable basis for this otherwise very important reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u55	Madam President! As EU members, we are committed to both the solidarity clause and the mutual assistance clause, and we cannot have any legal obstacles preventing us from participating in these clauses. The draft law as a whole is clear and its different decision-making mechanisms seem to be quite effective. And as has often been said in this Chamber in this debate, the ability to provide assistance is also an opportunity to receive it. I myself am a cadet officer and have lost cadet brothers abroad in various crisis management operations. However, each of them has gone out of their own free will, and now this situation may be changing. I see this as a very problematic issue and I personally do not feel that, as a professional officer, I have ever committed myself in any oath, insurance or promise to go abroad on such a mission without my own firm consent. We have also had discussions in this Chamber on extreme situations, and when considering these extreme situations, it is good to remember that there are about 6,000 professional officers in Finland. What kind of help can such a group provide in extreme situations if it does not have the pool of reservists on which our own defence solution has been built? I see that, in the event of these extreme situations — and I hope they will never confront us — we must also resolve the question of how a large-scale reserve army could be used under a solidarity clause or a mutual assistance clause abroad, because a mere group of professional officers may not be enough. Madam President! Security guarantees are of the utmost importance to us and we absolutely must commit ourselves to their mutual respect. However, our legislation must be built on such a basis that we can commit ourselves to these with a good conscience and know what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u56	Madam President! As an EU country, Finland is committed, in accordance with the spirit of the Lisbon Treaty, to developing the European Union as a security community. Our security environment is constantly changing, and security threats are very diverse. It is important that, for our legislation, we are able to act fully in accordance with international obligations and that we also have the capacity to ask for, but also to provide, international assistance if necessary. At the time, the Treaty of Lisbon laid down a solidarity clause and a mutual assistance clause, the fundamental importance of which Finland has emphasised all along the way. The scope of the solidarity clause is defined as a terrorist attack or a natural or man-made disaster experienced by a Member State. On the other hand, the mutual assistance clause applies when a Member State is under armed attack. For many years, therefore, the EU agreements have had legal powers to provide and receive international assistance, but the implementation and political practice of these clauses have allowed themselves to wait. The French request for assistance after the Paris terrorist attacks now brought life to the clauses of the Treaty of Lisbon and broadened the interpretation of mutual assistance to other serious threats comparable to the armed attack. Mr President! This government proposal specifically deals with the decision-making process of the highest governmental bodies in situations where international aid is to be given to another country, to the European Union or to international organisations. The proposal proposes to provide for a normal decision-making procedure and an urgent decision-making procedure. It is of paramount importance that the powers and responsibilities of the various state institutions be strictly laid down in order to avoid situations where assistance should be provided or requested, but in some respects the legislation would prevent it. In the Government's proposal, the role of Parliament in the decision-making process is emphasised when planning to provide or receive assistance involving military forces. In such cases, the Government must consult the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs or, in particularly demanding situations, provide Parliament with a report. This is very important for parliamentary control. In addition, the role of the President of the Republic is emphasised in cases of important foreign and security policy concern in relation to the provision or reception of military assistance. It is also important that emergency procedures are specifically provided for in order to ensure that Finland is also prepared to respond to sudden serious security threats. The scope of the urgency procedure is limited to situations between Finland and EU or EU countries or between Finland and other Nordic countries. But even in these urgent procedures, as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, said in his speech, we must keep that strong parliamentaryism involved. And, as has been discussed in this Chamber, for example, on this voluntary basis, it is quite clear that it must be voluntary for the military and the reservists, and, of course, whenever international action is involved, it would be desirable for the whole region to be subject to voluntary action. Mr President! With the French request for assistance, we already have a concrete example of the situation that this government proposal would deal with. However, Finland has not had any legislation to provide military or other international assistance abroad in non-crisis missions. In the case of France, Finland’s assistance will be successful within the framework of crisis management legislation, but we also need effective legislation for other types of requests for assistance. That is why this law should be adopted by Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u57	Mr President! As the international situation changes in all sectors of security, Finland's legislation and the activities of the authorities must also be up-to-date. In addition to the current international cooperation, our country must prepare itself for new, yet unknown, threats. With good preparation and extensive cooperation, we can also prevent the emergence of various threats. The field of international aid has clearly changed as a result of the French call for assistance following the terrorist attacks in Paris. France asked for help against a threat other than that of the foreign authorities. The military or terrorist threat is by no means the only threat for which a Member State may need assistance. This includes border guarding, possible large-scale disease epidemics and rapidly spreading animal diseases. An example of a serious animal disease that has already been detected in the neighbouring areas of Finland is African swine fever, which, as an epidemic, would cause very serious and long-term damage to food production and may also require external assistance to combat it. Mr President! Today, the international picture of the situation is clearly changing faster than before. Finland must be prepared to meet the challenges. This includes both the ability to provide assistance quickly if necessary and the readiness to ask for assistance if the situation so requires. In addition to the legislative amendment now under discussion, the powers and capabilities of the authorities in the various sectors must also be kept up-to-date, so that, if necessary, we can act as quickly and effectively as possible in the spirit of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u58	Madam President! I think that the government's proposal to provide and request international assistance and to take decisions on it is very good and, as we have heard during this debate, it has gone through a very long period of preparation. As I recall, the matter has already been prepared since 2008, and it is good that this matter has now been brought before Parliament and a strong legal protection and such procedures can be used if the situation so requires. After all, the European Union was born in the Maastricht Treaty, the 1992 Treaty, which entered into force on 1 November 1993. Since then, Europe has been able to call itself the Union. The European Union has officially been born as a separate, independent actor in Europe. This will, of course, start with the involvement of these different activities in national legislation, and then, of course, they will have rules on how to deal with different situations. Finland, as a member of the European Union, is fully involved in these activities, and it must always be remembered that Finland and only Finland themselves decide whether to join in or to ask for help in a situation we have been confronted with. It is hoped that these situations will not occur both as a donor and as a caller, but that this possibility still exists, and it is extremely important that small Member States, like Finland, are not alone in the event of a potentially threatening situation or crisis. It is a very important observation, and through its own history Finland has very painful experiences about it. Hopefully, we will never get into such situations again. However, in every situation, Finland makes an independent decision as to whether or not it is involved and, in some circumstances, a situation may arise in which it is necessary to provide assistance to a neighbour who is a member of the Union. However, it must be borne in mind that such situations are extremely rare, but on the other hand there is always a general obligation to provide assistance. It's always worth remembering. The principles of international law are in all cases, when this law is applied, in force, and international law is applied, which means that no wild situation can arise in this situation either. The President of the Republic is in charge of our foreign policy in cooperation with the Government, which means that in this case, too, we have agreed procedures that are enshrined in the Constitution. From this point of view, too, the situation is well under control and has agreed procedures that have been approved by the Finnish Parliament. This law is a fine complement to these situations. Depending on the case, the Finnish Parliament will always be involved either through the examination of committees or as a possible report by the Government to the Parliament in such a way that the Parliament can discuss the matter and decide by what means are involved. However, it is important to note that Parliament always has a certain role to play in any case, and it is a very good thing to have its parliamentary coverage. At the same time as Parliament becomes involved in these possible discussions on the crisis situation, information will also be provided to all citizens about the crisis that may occur or take place. We live in a very uncertain world today, and preparation is always wisdom. It is not a threat or a threat, but always involves calm, good judgment and, above all, all procedures for democratic decision-making, which are enshrined in the Finnish Constitution and other laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u59	Madam President! The separate law on the provision of mutual assistance is before Parliament and I welcome the fact that the Government has provided Parliament with this package of legislation. This has been expected in Parliament since 2008, now for nearly eight years. Of course, the world political situation has also changed along the way, and crises have also changed shape, and it is good that different types of crisis are also being prepared for by amending the law. The government's proposal also reflects the fact that the EU's foreign and security policy dimension is also evolving with time, and it is regrettable that the European Union has also stepped up its own aid procedures in response to the French attacks. I believe that even now that the Finns have already given France assistance, new ways of combining humanitarian and military aid with those countries that need help as members of the European Union will also be found after the reform of the legislation. This summer the Government will report to Parliament on foreign and security policy. Of course, it would have been desirable — if we were to live in a world where things were going more systematically — to have had a period of foreign and security policy reporting earlier and to have been able to bring these elements into it. Now the marching order is moving the other way round: individual issues are implemented into their own legislation, which will only be stated afterwards as part of the report on foreign and security policy. The broad tradition of our defence policy has been a parliamentary consensus on the key issues of our defence. This consensus has, of course, sometimes been tested on both sides. But I hope that the deployment of soldiers in the name of assistance will be based on voluntary, not coercion, according to the opinion and proposal of staff organisations. Let's find a model here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u60	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u61	Madam President! In this draft law, it is proposed to amend the legislation on the National Defence College, which was last revised in 2008. The amendments concern the organisation of the overall training of officers, the setting and monitoring of the scientific policy objectives of the National Defence College, the appointments of assistant professor and assistant military professor, and the status of Docents of the National Defence College. In addition, the proposal contains a number of mainly legislative amendments. Mr President! Officer training consists of military and military studies, which together form a whole of officer training. Military vocational studies are carried out alongside scientific studies and are organised mainly in defence branch schools. In order to ensure the functionality of the whole, it is proposed that responsibility for steering and coordinating it be transferred from the Chief Staff to the National Defence College. The overall responsibility for the implementation of officer training would thus lie with the National Defence College, which in practice is in the best position to perform effectively the coordinating role of degree studies and military vocational studies. The aim of the proposal is thus to facilitate the organisation of officer training. The purpose of the National Defence College is to promote military research and provide military science education based on research and best practice in the field. The proposal provides for the establishment of the scientific policy objectives of the National Defence College. The aim of the amendment is to develop, evaluate and guide the military science role of the National Defence College with the same academic criteria as universities. This would contribute to strengthening the working conditions and scientific quality and effectiveness of cooperation between the National Defence College and the civil university system. The setting of targets would also contribute to the establishment of the National Defence College as an equal part of the national higher education system. In practice, the objectives would be agreed in tripartite cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, the Chief Staff and the National Defence College. There is no change in the performance steering relationship between the Chief Staff and the Defence Forces Commander to the National Defence College. The assessments of the National Defence College have on several occasions drawn attention to the fact that the National Defence College does not have a planned career path for researchers. The proposal is to create a new title for assistant professor and assistant military professor in the Defence Forces. The proposed posts would create a new step in the structure of scientific research and teaching. Mr President! Finally, the value of the docent. In the presentation, I suggest that the National Defence College, like the universities, could continue to grant a Docent to a qualified person. The value of the Docent would not be different from the current Docents of the National Defence College, as it would still be practically just a title. However, the Docent’s value would clarify the legal position of docents and also reflect their actual position in the National Defence College better than the current state.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u62	Madam President! First of all, thank the Minister for his presentation. I know you know this very well. I think it is very important that the draft law is now making it easier to organise the training of officers and that in the future those objectives should be defined by the National Defence College instead of the Chief Staff. This is certainly important for the quality of teaching, it is important for independence, and it is also important for the future officers from the National Defence College to be on the edge of the challenges of time and to know and receive all the latest knowledge that is needed from that world. The National Defence College must continue to be a university of science, and I think it is important that now that this cooperation with different universities is intensified, a wide range of research paths can be created. From this point of view, one might say that if you graduated from that school, you could even end up as a representative of Parliament and, before that, as a mayor. This is important, and I also think it is important that the officer's basic training can continue those studies also at other scientific universities and thus complement its own knowledge. However, I would have asked the Minister, now that you are here, how do we take account of these old qualifications, which we still have in the country and which will not be able to respond fully to this new proposal now: have we thought about converting them into equivalent to this current Master's degree system, because I have understood that this is not possible at present? When I myself graduated from that school in 2004, I only have this officer’s Master’s degree, and in time it was found that there was no way to convert it into a master’s degree in military science. I do see this in some way as a crying deficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u63	Madam President! The aim of the proposal is to streamline the organisation of officer training, to develop career paths for National Defence College researchers and to align the regulation of the National Defence College with the regulation of universities. The change mainly concerns higher degrees in officer training and their teaching, as well as the duties and posts of teaching staff. The proposal therefore mainly contains minor amendments concerning guidance on the activities and teaching of the National Defence College, the development of research careers, the status of docents and a number of amendments of a purely legal nature. The tasks of the National Defence College would be broadened in such a way that in future the National Defence College would be responsible for the overall training of officers, including the studies included in the degrees and the military vocational studies carried out alongside them. I think that enlargement is in order, because it is in line that the overall responsibility lies in one hand. On the other hand, the reform provides guidance for science policy, since the proposal provides that the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Defence Forces, would set key objectives for the scientific policy of the National Defence College and would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the objectives. The Tripartite — the Ministry of Defence, the Chief Staff, the National Defence College — is also to be welcomed in straightforward military activities in order to avoid misunderstandings. Madam President! I welcome this proposal because the setting of scientific policy objectives supports the coordination of military training tasks and academic objectives of the National Defence College as part of our national higher education system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u64	Mr President! Following the reform of the Defence Forces in recent years, it is natural that the training of personnel trained for the needs of the Defence Forces and the Border Guard should also be developed. The reform clarifies the position of the National Defence College by defining the criteria for defining scientific objectives. This will consolidate the position of National Defence College among the universities of our country and secure a high level of research in the field of science. The bill ensures the implementation of scientific research by setting up a new research staircase for both military and civilian personnel as assistant professors. This will create a career path for researchers corresponding to other universities at the National Defence College. By enabling the researcher's career path also at the National Defence College, we will approximate the university's activities with other universities and increase the opportunities for research in the field of defence and thus confirm that its scientific expertise is up-to-date. The development of defence research also provides information for security policy-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u65	Madam President! I would like to thank the Minister for his excellent presentation and for his expert contribution to this. I welcome this proposal, and from the point of view of education policy, I think it is very important that we try to bring military science studies into line with the rest of the higher education and qualifications system. Since the Bologna process, we have had the aim of harmonising our qualifications structure. It is good that our degree system will further harmonise academic degrees, even then, up to the highest level of defence education. I also welcome this objective that more integrated research careers could be possible. It promotes military research and is also the aim of a broader view of our science policy. It is now the case that in other higher education sectors too, this breakage of researchers' careers has been seen as a problem, and I believe that our defence of the country will also be promoted by enabling even more unified and closer research careers there on the National Defence College side. I consider this proposal to be important in terms of education policy. We should note that we also have some transitions from other academic education to that aspect of national defence training. Many may first complete other academic degrees and then a military science degree, and it is also important that now, with this government proposal, these military science degrees become a closer part of the rest of the academic world and the career path.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u66	Madam President! There's a very good presentation here. This too is so-called, could you say, not the dismantling of standards, but at least the streamlining of training paths and national defence colleges in the sense that it has been known, however, that there are problems in combining these actual tasks with this training when this exceptional officer's degree is being carried out? It is good that this direction now goes to one body in this regard. What is also important is that when the National Defence College is, however, a university activity and has been a separate actor and it has certainly been shown since science was done, that there has been insufficient cooperation with other disciplines, this role of the National Defence College is now being strengthened in that respect. In the same way, as Mr Honkonen has pointed out, researchers have had problems in the rest of the university sector, but also in the defence sector, and it is a good thing that researchers are now able to take a smoother career path there, and this also serves scientific objectives and purpose. As far as this docent's value is concerned, it is good that it is also recognised here that it is indeed a matter of value, a title, and not of any actual job. Here, too, this becomes clear on the side of the National Defence College. But a good show, and I strongly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u67	Madam President! It is good that: The regulation of the National Defence College will be harmonised in line with the regulation of other universities, although it is not covered by the University Act. When the National Defence College is assessed on the same academic criteria as other universities, cooperation between them will be facilitated. After this reform, I hope that the smooth running of practical studies, the scheduling of courses and the planning of packages will be better than before. Currently, the scope of studies varies depending on the student's type of weapon and the person who organises the studies, and this puts students in an unequal position. This must definitely be corrected, and it must be ensured that this bill will also have the desired effect when it comes into force. It is good that with the change the National Defence College would also become a career path for researchers. It is very good that the position of researchers is safeguarded even in the feet of current training cuts, and I welcome the fact that the practice of docents is also harmonised with other universities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u68	Minister Niinistö, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u69	Mr President! Thank you for the positive response to this government proposal. I have only one comment, namely on Mr Kärnä's question on the consideration of senior qualifications at the National Defence College. Frankly, I cannot answer this question, but if you don't mind, I will find out and I will provide you with a written reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u70	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u71	Madam President! This government proposal will contribute to the building of a growth environment for digital business, which is one of the government's top projects, and to the smoothing of regulations, and of course it will also contribute to the updating of the previous legislation. With regard to digital services and the organisation of electronic services, it is important to take account of these accessibility solutions, especially in the case of systems that can facilitate and make the services used by citizens more flexible. Accessibility in digital services is just as important as accessibility in construction. Well-designed is a strong basis for a functioning, smooth structure, and this should also be borne in mind in all the construction of the digital environment, so that citizens take these electronic services, such as electronic identification and electronic signature, as their own and everyday habits, and that services function smoothly without the so-called stairways. For these e-services, for example, it is also possible to use these services with specially designed aids for visually impaired people, but this is only possible if it has already been taken into account in the design process, i.e. at the planning stage. I would have asked the Minister: how is the accessibility of these e-services specifically taken into account in this government proposal and in this planning phase?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u72	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order of 7. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 6/2016 vp, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the Protocol and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u73	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u74	Mr President! I propose that the law be rejected in accordance with protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u75	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. A motion for rejection made by Tavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u76	Mr President! Ensuring adequate and uniform postal services throughout the country is now and will be the task of the state. The proposed legislative amendment would allow private companies to pick up the best parts of the market and drive the universal service obligation operator into deeper distress. In the second phase of the reform of the law, there would be no choice but to reduce or ensure statutory postal services with taxpayers' money. In this scenario, it can be asked whether it is the role of the State to allow private companies to operate with tax resources. We don't think so. The reform of the Postal Act should address the sector as a whole and assess how the competitive market and adequate quality postal services can be sustainably coordinated with all citizens. It is therefore wondered how the government sees the future of universal service and the uniform services of citizens. In view of the above, I agree that Parliament rejects the bill contained in the Government proposal 18/2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u77	The 10th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 9/2016 vp, a single reading of the agreement and then a second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u78	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 10/2016 vp is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-10-ps-49.u79	The 12th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 11/2016 vp will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
