ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u1	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 November 2016. In the debate, Mrs Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Mrs Sarkkinen, has tabled a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1. With the support of Mrs Tuula Haatainen, Mrs Anneli Kiljunen has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Mr Aino-Kaisa on the proposal for a statement by Mr Pekonen and Mrs Anneli Kiljunen on the proposal for a statement will be put to the vote against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u3	In a hurry, I pressed "no," I had to press "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u4	All right, let's mark this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u5	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 November 2016. In the debate, Pia Viitanen, supported by Mats Nylund, has proposed that the bill be rejected. Pia Viitanen, supported by Timo Harakka, has tabled 2 motions for statements under protest 1. In addition, with the support of Li Andersson, Touko Aalto has made 2 proposals for statements under protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u6	First, we must vote on the adoption or rejection of a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u7	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Pia Viitanen 1 and 2. the draft statement and the Touko Aalto 1 and 2 statements shall be put to the vote separately against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u8	The 6th item of the agenda is the debate on the alternative budget for 2017 for the Socialist Group in Parliament. This point is also presented from 7 to 10 October. the alternative budgets referred to in the paragraph. After presentations of the alternative budgets, which are therefore 7 minutes/Parliamentary group,the address will be used by Minister of Finance PetteriOrpo. The maximum length of that speech is also 7 minutes. I will, at my discretion, also give the Members who have presented the alternative budget a response of 2 minutes. After the debate, the debate will continue at a rapid pace, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, discussions on matters of the day are also allowed from 7 to 37.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u9	Mr President! The Finnish economy has been in a difficult situation in recent years. Non-existent economic growth and high, prolonged unemployment have created serious inequalities among citizens and have considered central government deficits. The Sipilä Government set itself the objective of creating 110,000 new jobs and raising the employment rate to 72% and breaking the indebtedness trend — good goals that the SDP has easily agreed with. On the other hand, the methods chosen by the government have been largely indecent, unfair, social inequalities and, unfortunately, ineffective from the point of view of economic growth and employment. Mr President! The SDP's alternative to the government is Finland, which is built on genuine growth, justice and responsible state finances, Finland, where everyone is involved. Compared to the government proposal, the human option of the SDP will contribute better to genuine growth and sustainable employment by creating at least 38,000 new jobs. It is more socially just when it cancels the government's cutbacks on low incomes and involves the rich in balancing the economy, and it is more financially responsible, taking almost EUR 400 million less debt than the government. The tax rate will remain unchanged. Mr President! Over the past year, employees have taken on a heavy burden. The livelihood of pensioners, students, unemployed and families with children has been cut hard. Many have been willing to make a sacrifice because the government promised to break the debt. Disappointment is all the more bitter when debt is not reduced; debt is growing. A lot of people are wondering where the money is going. The answer is that the money taken from the underprivileged is transferred to the pockets of people with good income. By lowering taxes from the wealthiest and most earning Finns The Sipilä government seems to believe in the American-style trickle-down ideology, in which wealth-rich people, by enriching their well-being, are also dripping into ordinary citizens, even the underprivileged. In the United States, this tax policy is marketed as 'Make America Great Against'. The Sipilä Government has shown that the same line of tax policy is being implemented in the shadow of the slogan 'Let Finland be put in order'. Three recent government proposals fill the hallmarks of this friend capitalism: a reduction in forest gifts, a reduction in inheritance and gift tax and an entrepreneurial deduction. They reward the government’s own interests but do not bring any growth or employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u12	Mr President! Today we woke up to a world that needs defenders of equality, human rights, civilisation and climate protection — perhaps more than ever. We Finns have to be that kind of force. Finland must defend sustainable values in its foreign policy, which can now be put to the test. We must have, by our own actions, the hope of a better tomorrow than we want to build in the world. The American election campaign is also a reminder that decision-makers can never isolate themselves from their people. Mr President! The Sipilä government says that it is making decisions that it feels must be made. If anyone disagrees with it, the government says it is resistance to change. The government cuts off the lowest income: students, the unemployed and pensioners. It cuts our children's education and research in our universities. It cuts the public sector from women-dominated sectors: carers, teachers. The Sipilä government simply gives to those who already have much and takes from those who have little. Rauli Virtanen, a respected journalist who went around the world’s crisis scenes, said in an interview in the newspaper: “I feel that Sipilä’s government is one of the most inhumane or perhaps inhumane governments we have had.” I mean, the inhumanest government. I'm afraid so. The Sipilä government has forgotten one important thing, it has forgotten a person. The government has forgotten about the purchasing power of the low-income pensioner whose income will be cut by the government next year, 2 per cent, and whose travel and medical costs have increased as a result of the cuts. The government has forgotten that it is studying a family of children whose livelihood the government cuts hundreds of euros a year. And the government has at its most cruelly forgotten the nearly 100 children who have come to Finland alone to seek refuge in Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia and who have now received a negative asylum decision this year. Last year, no child, no one, from a warring country, received a negative decision. The Finnish line has changed. It's cruel, it's tough, it's cold. Is Sipilä’s government even now so cruel that it begins to convert children in distress into a warring country? This has never been done before.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u21	Mr President! Finland is known around the world for its maternity kits, thousands of lakes, formal drivers and the best schools in the world. Finland is not one of the most competitive and equal countries in the world because of wage competition, cuts in education or tax policies that increase income differentials. The recipe for success has been the opposite: a free, comprehensive and high-quality education system, fair working conditions, good public services and a functioning social security and income transfer system have been the key components of Finland’s success recipe. Now the government claims that this success model can no longer be afforded. The government claims that reducing working conditions and increasing inequalities are essential measures to ensure competitiveness. Next year, even national pensions will be cut in direct terms. At the same time, taxes on high income incomes, inheritances and gifts will be reduced. Of all the low income groups, students, 120 million will be cut. At the same time, the highest-income entrepreneurs will receive a tax reduction of 120 million, which will not even improve employment or increase entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u28	Värderade talman, Madam President! Vi är många i dag som känner en stor besvikelse, oro och rent av obehag med anledning av valresultatet i USA. Demokratin har dock Talat och vi får önska att en försonlig, ansvarsfull politik trots allt kommer att bli ledstjärnan i den nya administrationen. I dag tauri och nu ska vi ändå koncentrera oss på det vi själva kan påverka, vårt eget lands budget, vår egen framtid. Politik handlar om värderingar och att läja vad man tror på. Regeringen har visat viika värderingar den står för. Utbildning och de fattigaste i världen blir föremål för kraftiga nedskärningar. Famileledigheterna vill man av ideologiska skäl inte se över. Men politiken ger alltid möjligheter att lija annorlunda. I vårt så kallade battre alternativ visor vi att det går att bedriva en ansvarsful ekonomisk politiik utan kortsiktiga nedskärningar i utbildning, studystöd och utvecklingssamarbete. Och detta utan att ta mera lån än regeringen gör. Också större reformer är jöjliga. Svenska riksdagsgrupen är med denna alternativa budget först med att sukna in en familijepolitisk hehetsreform inom konkreta budgetramar. Till det, basta vanner, behövs politisk grain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u29	Mr President! "In one year the theme of Finland's centenary year. In the alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliament, the theme of national unity has been taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u30	Madam President! Before discussing options, there should be a factual picture of the situation. I have to say that sometimes I still doubt that we have it, even though we are so gloomy with the crowd. The situation in Finland's economy is not good, its base is very weak, it is due to structures. Although it certainly seems easy for the opposition to blame the government, the fact is that all the parties sitting here have been responsible for the government over the last few years and these problems which are in the Finnish economy are deeply structured and that is what we need to change, and that is the work the government is doing. For eight years, we tried to solve our problems by saving and raising taxes. So this is what we did together. If we were to follow this traditional formula at this stage, when employment has not gone to a better level because of the weak economic climate, then we should do more adjustment, savings and tax increases again, but not in this situation where we are seeing a weak, pervasive turn in the economy, we really do want to do — to take this growth away — but instead we need to invest fully in employment and structural reforms. There are already some of them in this government proposal, but more is needed and they must be pushed forward with determination. The Commission, which asked Finland about the situation in our economy and the deficit, also welcomed the fact that the government has chosen the path of structural reforms and thus improved economic growth and employment and does not call for our budget to be opened up. Cookies for the reform of Finland are therefore broadly found in the Government Programme: a savings package of EUR 4 billion, which is a tight, more efficient public service production, in particular social welfare reform and, above all, measures to improve economic growth and employment. And we need to do more of these, i.e. more well thought-out, safe reforms to give as many Finns as possible the opportunity to participate in the labour market: to ensure that we improve the efficiency of spending on education, research, lower the thresholds for employment, make work always more profitable. These are the things the government has on the table when we prepare the next step, the mid-term review, next spring. Perhaps one more thing I would like to raise above the others, and that is that we have to keep working, so that we can get the Finnish labour market to work so that everyone who wants to get to work. This will also require extensive reforms in the future. But, Madam President, these are the comments on the alternative budgets. First of all, I would like to thank all the opposition parties for their very thorough work. Democracy needs alternatives in order to work, and these debates are certainly conducive to democracy. I am not going to go through these proposals in detail, but I will make a few comments: The first point is that there seems to be quite a large consensus in this House on the great line of fiscal policy. Only the Left Alliance is proposing an acceleration of debt, which, in my opinion, is irresponsible — in fact, debt would be raised for future generations — and, compared to this, other opposition parties have more responsible objectives. Several opposition parties also set unrealistic targets for certain increases in income, such as health-based taxes and the fight against the shadow economy. These are certainly good targets to pay attention to, but there has to be some realism. We know, for example, from the health-based tax that we have come into this situation with the Commission, and former Finance Minister Rinne knows very well that finding a substitute tax is really difficult and it will be even more challenging to get it next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u41	Before the debatt, Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u42	Madam President! Thank you to the opposition for presenting the alternative budgets. Many have referred to the US presidential election, and I just hope that the rhetoric used in the election campaign will not land here, as we saw signs of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u47	Let's go to the debat. Let us start with one round of 2 minutes for all the groups and then move on to one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u48	Mr President! The Minister of Finance Orpo is right that the situation in Finland is not good and that measures are needed that affect economic growth and employment. I would like to raise one point in this speech and say that the Prime Minister has just criticised the SDP's attitude to the government's tax solutions in this regard: We also believe that a tax solution is needed on that side, but 95 % of both employees and pensioners benefit from this tax solution, not a small elite, under the option of the SDP. The Government's solution has a clear focus on the fact that rich, wealthy people, both in relative terms and in euro, will benefit more from this government's tax solution than the low-income and middle-income ones. This is now the fundamental difference in government policy in relation to the policy of social democrats in relation to taxation. The Prime Minister notes that why is there criticism of this entrepreneurial reduction? That is why, Prime Minister Sipilä, there is criticism of the reduction in entrepreneurship that it is directed at the highest-income self-employed. The two highest deciles take well over half of the thief available for entrepreneurship reduction, and that is something that the Social Democrats cannot accept. In this situation, it makes no sense to reduce the tax burden on high - income and rich people when we need those elements in the taxation of rich people to help low - income, poor people on the services and transfers side. Prime Minister Sipilä, I very much hope that you will understand this Socialist line in improving the income of low and middle-income workers and pensioners. 95% will benefit from the Socialist option.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u49	Mr President! The speech by Mr Orpo, the Minister for Finance, was quite cold to hear. That's where he positioned the coalition as a business lobby support party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u54	Mr President! The Minister of Finance, Orpo, is right that we do not disagree that the state of the Finnish economy is difficult. On the other hand, we have some disagreement as to why these economic problems arise. In the Left Alliance, we do not believe that the economic problems in Finland are due to the fact that we have too good wages or too good working conditions in this country, as the government apparently believes. On the other hand, we are very divided about how to solve these economic problems. First of all, this debt: In the alternative budget of the Left Alliance, there is a balance between permanent expenditure and income. In addition, there will be 600 million more debt than the government, but we will use it entirely for fixed-term measures, for a temporary reduction in reduced VAT rates and for a large package of mould schools. The idea of these measures is to achieve growth and employment immediately, because we know that it is the only way in the long term to balance public finances and also to reduce the pressure on debt. Mr President! I think it is high time that this country also raised the question of how effective this line of expenditure cuts has been from the point of view of deleveraging. This is where the government is now justifying cuts in education, students, low-income pensioners by the fact that this has to be done in order to increase employment and put an end to indebtedness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u57	Värderade fru talman! Vårt största bekymmer just nu är sysselsättningen. Därför har svenska riksdagsgruppen och SFP lyft fram de tio sysselsättningsåtgärderna för att förbättra läget för Finland i framtiden, och därför tar vi också fram den nya familijepolitiska helhetsmodellen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u58	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives of the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, for keeping you awake, even though there were great events in the world last night, which you must have followed. The Prime Minister drew my attention to the point where I spoke about the solidarity tax, and I noticed that the reference was somewhat unclear. We should have specifically referred to the increase in the capital tax which the Minister of Finance drew attention to and said that the Christian Democrats would be bringing progress towards capital taxation. That, on the other hand, is not true. Excuse me, but we already have it progressive, we would only be bringing one extra class to it. This was a matter which we did consider for a long time — how it might affect the competitiveness of companies — but given that during the last term of the government the corporate tax was calculated from 26 to 20, and that now is the entrepreneurial deduction we have been driving for a long time, we felt that Finland should share the burden together and evenly. And you can see on page 7 of our alternative budget there are other interesting tax policy openings, which would certainly be of interest to the government. But I'd like to return a little bit more to this nursing thing. I would like to ask again: is the government really reducing it from 0.5 to 0.4 for the elderly, when it is known that, even during the current staffing scale, it is difficult for nursing staff to provide good care and even during the current staffing scale, it is difficult for them to deal with the elderly? The medical staff, most of whom are women, are already under enormous pressure, and we know that the number of people suffering from dementia will continue to grow in the next few years. So it's not right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u59	Madam President! As a former member of the Banking Council, two issues need to be addressed: one additional income from the Bank of Finland and the other EUR 355 million from Sitra. After all, there is a law on Sitra that allows Parliament to increase its basic capital, but this law does not allow it to be paid out. So I have to ask: is the SDP still supposed to bring in a bill to change this law in this way? If so, we will take a stand in due course. Then this additional income of the Bank of Finland, the revenue of the surplus. Everyone knows that this year's entry is still open, it's very slow. Whether there will be a surplus is due to what is an interest rate policy and to what is an exchange rate policy. It always generates this surplus, and there is some sort of agreement on the revenue of this surplus, which has been paid to the state in the 21st century by over 2 billion people. It's about 100 million. Now they don't know what it's gonna be. But you will receive and depart from the fact that this is going to fall like a meal for him. My question is this: will you present to the Banking Council the allocation of this additional income?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u60	Mr President! Some of the shadow budgets and their proposals are very good and worthy of consideration, but I am obliged to bring up, in particular, the shadow budget of the Social Democrats, which is an extraordinary combination of incompetence and impropriety. First, let's take out some of these odd figures. Where did you get this information that the Ringe model produces these certain tax revenues that you mention? According to you, the slope model would balance public finances by between 140 million and 250 million when, according to your own calculation, which you requested from Parliament's information service, the slope model would increase public sector expenditure by EUR 350 million. How has this turned out since last year? You wanted to introduce the Emu buffers this year, too. Of course, this virtual money is nice to use in ideas, but it is basically money saved in pension funds, which you would like to borrow and then pay back, and you are presenting this as the income of the state. Are you serious about the fact that this is a sustainable spending of money? There are many other points, but I will ask you briefly what I did last year. If these magics of yours worked, why didn't you do them when you were in power? If I ever had an answer to this, I would be pleased. But one question is beyond all others. This particular point of yours in this shadow budget, in which you refer to three happy bandits, was so vague that the editor of the evening newspaper asked President Rinte yesterday in the evening's newspaper for clarification as follows: 'Will three happy bandits refer to three chairmans of the government party or to three tax deductions?' Antti Rinne, you said, "I don't care. And not just the chairmen, but the parties." You have called these three gentlemen here, the leading ministers of Finland, villains
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u61	Madam President! These shadow budgets of the opposition are a dark shadow of the employment and economic development of Finns, and it is good that they are merely shadow budgets and do not become practical. In that shadow budget of the SDP, it sounds good to have a lot of savings cancelled, but there is no substitute funding being proposed. Green populism had no limit in that presentation by Niinistö. It was for all good and humane against all evil. This is how it's good to be, but it should also be covered. There is criticism of the government for cuts in education, but it is itself doing EUR 250 million in education and training for early childhood education, vocational training and higher education, which is not something we would like to see. Well, at least the Left Alliance is honest. It would not even aim for the balance of central government finances, but would increase the deficit in its distribution policy with total sadness — thanks for that honesty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u62	Let us now move on to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u63	Mr President! I'm going to ask you one question, this three happy bandits. When families with children were losing their daily care contributions through increases, it was therefore an attempt to rob families with children, and when unemployed people lose 100 days of unemployment benefit at the turn of next year — with a income of more than EUR 1500, with a job income of EUR 3000 for work that has become unemployed, more than EUR 4500 for loss — and when pensioners lose responsibility for medicines because of your activities and when training is cut off, skills, research, product development will be cut to the future by more than EUR 3000 million during this parliamentary term, I ask only: do these not meet some kind of characteristic?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u64	Mr President! It is interesting that here, as is the case with legitimate and popular representatives and elected representatives, to accuse them of being robbers in accordance with a policy that has been perfectly correct. But if you want to talk only about the content of the policy, and if these magic tricks of yours are the real way to make Finland's economic policy and the government's way is to rob — as you have now introduced this term — then I am very surprised that you did not use these magic protests, but increased VAT in the last parliamentary term, thereby exporting bread from the mouth of the poor, medicines from the sick, and then distributing the money as a corporate tax discount to the bankers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u66	Mr President! As far as the Minister of Finance's speeches on employment are concerned, support for people with low incomes will be given to the purchasing power of citizens, the creation of smart public investment will create new jobs, the reform of the family leave system will increase equality and employment, the dismantling of incentive traps and poverty traps through a decent base income will enable people to find employment, the use of euros for domestic renewable energy instead of imported fuels will support the creation of new jobs, and the granting of relief to entrepreneurs for the additional costs of the first employee's salary will allow new labour to be employed. It is a green employment line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u67	Mr President! I personally appreciate the way in which this debate on economic policy is conducted in the last parliamentary term on the basis of the alternatives put forward by the opposition, but all the more reason, of course, would assume and wish that they were realistic and that we would have the same picture of the situation that we are starting to discuss. In the last government, you, the SDP, for example, were driving things that you are now very critical of. You pushed ahead with the reduction of municipal obligations by saving for elderly services, cutting out secondary education and also limiting subjective day care rights. The economy contracted
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u68	Mr President! Representative Katainen here called for realism from the opposition. Last season, the Centre proposed that EUR 600 million be taken from the grey economy just like that. We now have a moderate estimate of EUR 200 million, supported by a programme in paragraph 20, which unfortunately has not been taken up by the government during its activities. But all we have to do is wrap up the sleeves and get to work, and then we'll start to make the tax revenue, as was the case in the construction industry, for example, with the then Minister of Ihalainen's measures. But what matters now is that instead of grasping the lily stalks, it is to see this big picture, which is what the government has been talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u69	Madam President! I welcome the fact that these events are being held, as Mrs Katainen has just said. All in all, there are good and bad shadow budgets. I can congratulate the RKP on the fact that I think they have the most responsible shadow budget. I have a certain amount of concern about this whole, about how the revenue and expenditure sides will meet, and especially about the grey economy that has emerged here: EUR 20 million for the RKP, EUR 20 million for the Christian, EUR 100 million for the Greens, EUR 8 million for 130 million for the Greens, and EUR 20 million for the SDP, of course, EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u72	Mr President! In that speech again, Minister Orpo suggested that there is only one option and that option is a government option. But I don't think so. Politics is a choice of values, and there are always alternatives to politics. You are also constantly accusing the Left of leaving debt to future generations, but what kind of welfare debt do you want to leave for our children and grandchildren by cutting welfare, education and basic security, that is what I want to ask you. On the left, we now have a more humane alternative to government policy. We want everyone to have the opportunity to study from that early childhood education to a doctorate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u73	Madam President! It is only right that we, as representatives of the government parties, should be able to comment here on your alternative budgets, so that it does not just fall into the hands of the press conferences. In its own draft budget, the SDP has forgotten this consistency. Before the elections, you said that the overall tax rate should be increased by 0.5%. Now you're overturning it. You were in favour of a billion tax increases. You promised to cut $2 billion, including education. Now you have no cut list, but you increase expenditure by 1.4 billion, and as a result you are proposing Sitra's 355 million-dollar cut and the bank of Finland's money. There is no way that you will now leave such destinations to take. The economy fell during your period and unemployment increased and all the reforms were not completed. This was the case during your period, now the government has been able to improve all these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u74	Mr President! I recall that sometimes the centre said that the balance sheets were working, and I wonder why the balance sheets could not be put to work now, for example, so that children’s mold schools could be repaired. That is what we Social Democrats have put forward, Mr Government. We have had concerns that the government will cut the poor, but there will be enough money for tax cuts for the rich — tax cuts for millions of heirs and pharmacists. President! That is precisely why we have made the option of 'everybody involved' and I would repeat this question by Mrs Lindtman. We have made a tax solution that would benefit 95% of employees and pensioners: more money in the hand, more purchasing power — more than just a hole in the purse. So I ask you, Mr Orpo, when yesterday we did not really get an answer from the people of the United States: why would you not want to have such a tax model in which 95% of employees and pensioners win?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u75	Mr President! There was a good story in Legal News about how a thorough impact assessment of regulation in Finland is the only way to combat flappies. I am sad to note that the most important aspect of the financing of welfare services is that of business activity in a broad sense and, in particular, the operating conditions of the export industry are not generally taken into account. Last night, with regard to the change in the on-call system, the government's proposal acknowledged this in one sentence: no significant impact on business. However, the President and CEO of Wärtsilä Finland publicly stated how Vaasa Central Hospital plays an important role for them in their ecosystem and how it should be strengthened in view of the growth expectations of the coming years. Should not the decision-makers of a small country dependent on exports listen with a sensitive ear if the world record-engine manufacturers talk about growth expectations? Why do you not judge the proposals from the point of view of companies, even the export industry?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u76	Madam President! I would like to draw attention to the state of internal security, on which the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, did not take a position. According to calculations made by the Police Advisory Board, the police budget will be reduced from EUR 736 million to EUR 660 million during this government. This means a reduction in the number of police officers from more than 7,300 to 6,500. All the parties in this House have agreed that police funds must be secured. The Christian Democrats put forward additional funding for this, as well as the RKP, in order to maintain this state of internal security in Finland. I would expect some comment from the Minister of Finance Orpo and the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u77	Mr President! It is true that the Rural Development Agency Mavi has failed to pay farmers the agreed payments according to the timetable. I — and I am sure many other representatives will — get bitter feedback from this almost constantly. However, it is true that in 2014, the Rural Development Agency, Mavi, paid some 2.1 billion different subsidies, and of these payments, farmers received some EUR 1.8 billion. In a group speech by the RKP, Mr Henriksson stated that their party's position is that Mavi will be abolished, and this is of course one option. I would like to ask Mr Henrikson: have you planned this, and if you have, how would you arrange for this payment to be made to farmers and others who receive Mav's subsidies? And, above all, have you calculated what such a replacement system would cost?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u78	Mr President! We have done a thorough job. If the representative wants to get to grips with this, he can take this budget of ours, the Better Option budget, and here on page 25, we have been told how this would work in practice. We have been through this and Mr Nylund, among others, has been very active in this work and, as you all know, is one of the best experts in this House when it comes to rural policy at all. I hope you will look into this further. We are a party that is always trying to put forward alternatives that are also feasible, and that is important to us. Perhaps it is also an indication that when we talk about the grey economy we are not building clouds, but we are feet on the ground and we are allocating more money, but we also think that it cannot save the entire budget of the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u79	Mr President! If we have to learn something from the presidential elections in the United States, the Brexit and the rise of the extreme right in Europe, then the division of society between those who survive and those who fail is a fertile breeding ground for hate, fear and racism. Therefore, in Finland too, people's concerns about employment and how to cope in the future must be raised. It is precisely in this time of uncertainty and lack of vision that solutions are needed that keep everyone involved in society and create faith in the future. This message of future faith and hope is reflected in the SDP's alternative budget. Unlike the government, the SDP does not want to deepen the gap between the good and the bad, but to narrow it down. This is a responsible policy in an uncertain time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u80	More ministers have now asked for the floor, so let us take the representatives of the plant and Kontula and then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u81	Mr President! There have been many references here to the Kiki Agreement. So how will Finland’s competitiveness change in relation to competing countries when the annual working hours increase by 24 hours? In 2015, Finland had the ninth lowest number of jobs in the European Union, with 24 additional hours moving to Finland 9. Does Finland, then, pay too much wages? At least not as hard wages as in Germany, Denmark or Sweden. Thus, in many countries that are better off than us, less work is done in Finland on higher wages than in Finland. In other words, Finland's competitiveness is not entirely dependent on the hourly cost of work, but it can only improve competitiveness by developing new, better-selling products and more productive business processes, and it requires research and training, the docents of the world and other so-called experts who have been targeted by the government. Indeed, the only alternative is a reduction in the unit cost of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u82	Mr President! As a labour movement, of course, the left makes its budget ahead of the work. This is reflected, among other things, in the harmonisation of capital taxation as part of other taxes on earnings, which leads to a reduction in income conversion in large income categories and, at the same time, significantly reduces the tax burden there on small capital income. This will be the result of our digital toolbox for entrepreneurs, which will ease red tape and the costs of entrepreneurship at the very beginning when other business subsidies do not work. This leads to investment in research and training, where we unfortunately lag far behind Sweden, for example. If the Minister of Finance now finds nothing in our budget related to work, then perhaps it is because we only have a different idea of what it is about the working life of the future. We do not believe that the working life of the future will be low-wage sectors, at least not just factories. We believe that the working life of the future will be very different
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u83	Then Minister Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u84	Mr President! Let's start with that left-wing union. After all, I confessed that there was an alternative. You have an alternative, that option is based on taking debt with courage and briskness, and I said that you will do a lot of good things with it. But when I do not believe that we can become more indebted in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u87	Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u88	Madam President! Three things I'm paying attention to. The first is the competitiveness pact. That's not the whole solution. We need other measures. It is one third of this entity that closes the competitive gap between Germany and Sweden, for example, in such a way that, according to the VM forecast, Germany can be reached in 2019, Sweden will be able to reach it next year. There is one third of productivity development, which is the responsibility of companies themselves, and insofar as I have had discussions, I am very convinced that this part will be achieved. This competitiveness pact, agreed by the social partners last spring, would, as the Minister of Finance said, have resulted in the highest growth in the income and purchasing power of high incomes. By its own actions, the Government corrected it by allocating tax reductions to people on low and middle incomes and to those on low incomes a separate budget of EUR 60 million to remedy this situation. Now for this entrepreneurship discount. Yes, it is populist to say that this benefits high incomes. Last season you, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the SDP, were making a corporate tax discount.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u89	Before the debate continues, Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u90	Madam President! I am now, of course, drawing attention to the side of the sector, namely employment, which is, however, the main tool of the government, or towards it, towards better employment, we want to go. When you read these options, it tells me at least to myself when I have been doing these options last season, that I find that there is nothing to be ashamed of either of them. It is difficult to make an alternative to a good policy, but we have tried, and for that I thank you. I would like to hear from the Social Democrats the answer to this question raised by the chairman of our parliamentary group. Now open up to me, a simple person, which is the economic impact of the slope model on the state economy, when you have argued that the public finances would be balanced by between 140 and 250 million. With the parliamentary information service you have commissioned calculations, i.e. net taxes and parafiscal charges and unemployment security savings, taking into account pay subsidies, would increase public sector expenditure by a total of EUR 350 million. This difference is between 490 million and 600 million. Explain to me how you'd pay for this. However, the government model is cost-neutral, i.e. there is a significant difference. On the other hand, you announced in your group speech that your budget will bring 38,000 jobs. I am not going to judge whether it is true, but you have not taken it — or have you taken it? — the calculation takes into account the employment impact of all government proposals which you are unable to accept when, however, the government has proposals in the pipeline, the effects of which are in the category of 45000 to 50000 jobs. When you are not accepting most of these, what are the net effects on this employment? Not the negative ones. For the Greens: We have a problem with encounters in this country. You're cutting the mileage and you're reducing the commuting deduction. How does this answer this problem when everyone should encourage everyone to go to work even if they live a little longer, for commuting and so on? It would be nice to have an answer to this. Then, for the Left Alliance in general, on the competitiveness pact: I know, you've been consistent. You have indicated that it is repugnant to you and this is how it is, and the same debate continued today. You called this competitiveness pact into question, that it should be cut off from the poor and away from them. This was done because we have fewer and fewer contributors who run this society. This was done because we are gaining competitiveness in this country and because investment is coming in so that we have new money to keep this welfare state up. And thank you for the honesty that you have said that 600 million will be taken out of debt. That is where you have been consistent all along.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u91	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u92	Madam President! This debt debate is interesting in itself, because the government, on the other hand, has been saying all the time in the previous period and has now repeated that we must give up further debt, it is not doing so. And when this argument is said to people who are now being deprived of both income and services, cut unemployment benefit, cut pensions and at the same time take away education services, early childhood education, old age services, that justice will not be passed on to people who would have been willing to tolerate it if they were really in sight that indebtedness would end here and then be allowed to build Finland together, as in the Socialist option. But this is not going to happen, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u93	Mr President! We have not yet received an answer as to how the SDP intends to find money each year in that capital of Sitra and the Bank of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u94	Mr President! I'm sorry to hear about the Prime Minister. Sipilä thought it best to get out of this debate after talking about things that were not true. Parliament's information service has fallen that the government cuts the purchasing power of the poorest Finns most. The purchasing power of citizens receiving a mere guarantee pension will be reduced by 2%. At the same time, the government will increase the purchasing power of those with the highest monthly income. The government already promised in the August budget debate that it would bring a poverty package to help the poorest Finns. This promise has still not been redeemed. Instead, you cut social benefits for the poorest Finns and weaken the purchasing power of the poorest Finns. The question is: when will the government deliver on its promises to the poorest Finns? An effective way, for example, would be for you to make a proper increase in the basic deduction of municipal tax. It'd be targeted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u95	Mr President! First of all, it must be said that only entrepreneurship and work create well-being for all of us. And the government has helped it: for example, an entrepreneur can only pay VAT when the money is in the cash register. Mr SDP and the Left Alliance, according to the Tax Administration, there are some 176,000 traders, 77% of whom have less than 30000 annual taxable income. The SDP and the left want to eliminate these tax reliefs. You're not friends with small businessmen. Greens also propose drastic cuts in the tax subsidies for diesel fuel and machinery. Of course, this weakens Finnish industry and logistics. In addition, you are deploring the job opportunities of sparsely populated areas by reducing the kilometric allowance. You can't ride a steering wheel or 30 to 40 kilometers by bicycle.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u96	Madam President! The government will reduce the taxation of the most heavily-earned. In terms of percentage and euro, the main beneficiaries of government policy are those who earn more than 7,000 euros a month. At the same time as you spend money on these tax reductions on the most high incomes, debt is growing even more, even though you are scaring us here with an increase in debt. This isn't right. And more are coming up: Prime Minister Sipilä said in his interview with Prime Minister Sipilä that, for reasons of timetable, the spending limits had to be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u97	Mr President! The SDP and the left are proposing to raise the VAT threshold to 30,000 — a good-sounding discount in itself, and I would also support it, but there are problems. They estimate that the cost would be EUR 103 million, and if this were to be calculated, that would be enough for some 20,000 companies. There are more than 300,000 companies in Finland and therefore a slide is needed to limit this increase in VAT to small companies. However, that 30,000 does not make it possible to hire an employee of a company, since even small companies, including barbershops, require much higher income, turnover if one is to hire another. The SDP would have an offer of EUR 20 million to hire the first employee, but in this case it is rather bad: if you hire one as a barber, you will have to pay many times what you get for the refund.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u98	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for accepting a positive offer from us, the Swedish Parliament Group, on the Employment Task Force. This is what a wise government does: to accept good suggestions. We will act constructively, I can promise you that on behalf of the entire opposition, concerning employment. I would also like to answer Mr Hongisto's question. In the Government Programme, the government says that they want to reduce bureaucracy and increase the efficiency of administration. The agricultural authorities now have three levels of government and a fourth level of control, and they say in the government programme that they should reduce the levels of government. Well, that is what we are presenting now, i.e. transferring, for example, programme updates and development measures to the Ministry and the rest then
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u99	Mr President! Last year we were worried about Finnish expertise as a SDP in this hall and we are concerned about it now. But still the same pace continues. At the same time, other EU countries, OECD countries are investing more in research and development. We're heading downhill. Why is this so when we have said here on several occasions that a single public-invested euro will make at least one more private? So we are talking about leverage, that is, what the Finnish economy really needs. The Minister also rightly said that small movements do not help, or he mentioned that we are in a deep hole and then small movements do not help, we need big ones. Then why isn't the government making bigger openings? Like last week, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u100	Madam President! These alternative budgets, especially the Socialist budget, were such that, at first sight, I was not going to take it very seriously. After all, it has been seen in this country that if taxation starts to be tightened, what are its effects on our export industry? We in the government have now made a strong effort to draw on exports. It is quite obvious that if exports do not pull, if there are no events in the ports, the ships will not leave for traffic, then the Finnish economy will not grow. The fall in unemployment has already begun and is a sign that government measures are working.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u101	Mr President! The Sipilä Government's budget for next year will increase poverty and inequality in Finland. Entrepreneurial deduction, forest gift reduction and inheritance tax reductions benefit the most well-paid, those who already have. The sufferers are ordinary people with low and middle incomes and people living on different benefits. Cutting off poor people is not even a sensible policy, because money would go directly to consumption, food, housing, medicines and other necessities. The budget does not want to seriously reduce the income gap, but, on the contrary, it will increase the poverty rate for children and the elderly and will further reduce the low-income population to the customers of income support. You might ask where is the embryo legacy of this government. In the SDP's alternative budget, 95 per cent of Finns, as well as employees and pensioners, are winners. The SDP does not participate in this friend capitalism, where 5% are served on a tray of tax advantages
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u102	Madam President! Now we have to correct this Socialist model for the proportion of employees' disposable income, because this seems to be the Lindtman model. This is where the salary of a Member of Parliament would not be reduced at all. In this Socialist model, wages will start to fall only after EUR 70000, and those who earn EUR 10000 would receive EUR 3.3 more a month and those who earn EUR 15000 a year would receive EUR 5 more a month. However, a person receiving EUR 50000 would receive an increase of EUR 12.5 per month. This is now the model of the SDP, so let's talk about it in the right names. I wish the SDP had the honour of making responsible shadow budgets, because this is full of virtual money, as we have heard here, and there are hundreds of millions of euros of money that does not really exist, as has been said about the Bank of Finland and Sitra. In practice, you would owe more than this government. You'd make over 6 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u103	Mr President! In fact, it is very good that Niikko, the first representative of the government party, now confirmed precisely that 95% of Finns, in practice all those with incomes of around EUR 6,000 a month or less, will win in this model of the SDP. So 95 per cent, 19 out of 20 Finns, receive more money after taxes and payments from wages and pensions in the SDP model. As far as Sitra’s balance sheet is concerned, it is touching that the government first squeezes pensioners, families with children and students dry, under Soin’s leadership, and now the only thing they are worried about is Sitra, where another EUR 350 million would remain. Now we should get the balance sheets available. One-off revenue is used to finance one-off expenditure. I ask the Minister for Finance: do you want to make better use of the balance sheets and do you agree that 95% of Finns will have more money?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u104	Mr President! Many Socialist speakers have pointed out that 95% of Finns would benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u107	Mr President! Let us be very clear to Minister Orpo and Minister Grahn-Laasonen and the entire government: The Greens have committed themselves to replacing all the cuts made by you from the state budget during this parliamentary term, and we can go through exactly how they are recorded there, but all that money is there. During this year and next year, you have cut some EUR 500 million from education and we will return it. Now the question is, why can't you cancel them? You try to trick your assistants into making a mess of the figures and you misunderstand them yourself, and it's a little embarrassing when you're in the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Education as a minister. But why are you not going to cancel these cuts now that we are considering what challenges Finland is facing? We should ensure, for example, that women are able to return from parental leave to work. We have incentive traps there, day care fees are quite high, and the capital region has problems with encounters. Why do you not reduce early childhood education fees and make sure that the groups are small?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u108	Mr President! While making unprecedented cuts to low incomes, the government is taking on more government debt. This is a fact: more debt next year, EUR 6 billion, oh. The Left Alliance's alternative to a 100-year-old Finland budget narrows the income gap and supports Finland's reform. Unlike the government, we do not cut off care for the elderly, study aid, pensions, medical benefits, education and research. These inhumane cuts can be avoided by cancelling the tax reductions planned by the government for high incomes and harmonising taxation. The government line cuts the poor and gives the rich no law of nature or necessity; it is a political choice; it is a right-wing government style-clean right-wing policy. But we have to wonder about the Central Party when, in your own alternative budget, you presented additional money for the same items you are now cutting off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u109	Mr Tanus, and then the speeches to the ministers, Mr Soini and Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u110	Madam President! Finland’s success is based on a good level of education for the population, and vocational education and training is very important here. The message from the field is that drastic savings to this effect threaten the quality of education and the adequacy of the study places, so these cuts should be reversed. We would also need additional investment in apprenticeships, workshops and outreach youth work as a means of reaching young people who have fallen from education and tailoring suitable training paths. What would also be very important is that the reunification of family and study should be facilitated by a new parental allowance for family students. This reform would allow many to complete a qualification after the addition of a family and encourage the establishment of a family during their studies, which would also facilitate the transition to working life. I hope that the government will take these proposals into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u111	Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u112	Madam President! — It is great that I have been waiting. Let's start with Mr. Laukkanen asking about the police. There's a lot of cops in the MPs. These three robbers, whom we have been branded, have decided to give more money to the police. This is absolutely excellent. It's not the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the cops, it's the Then you're gonna take off the entrepreneurship deduction. Why do you hate it so much? I don't understand it. Was this the case that, when the corporation tax was abolished, the Minister of Finance, Urplainen, was involved in it? I can't remember whether the Left Alliance and the Greens were still in the government or not — which one was it, was it or was it not? It was a pot of hundreds of millions. Now if a small entrepreneur, a masseuse, gets a small reduction, that's what you're after. Mr President! Why does the SDP want to cancel the car tax rebate, which, I believe, has brought more revenue to the state? I don't quite understand the point. And then, ladies and gentlemen, I read these green issues here. I still have to list these, and this is so terrible to listen to: the abolition of the refund of the energy tax on industry, the abolition of the reduced rate on diesel, the abolition of the reduced rate on light fuel oil, the reduction in kilometric compensation, the limitation of commuting reductions, the abolition of emissions trading compensation for industry, the cancellation of the reduction in inheritance tax, the maintenance of the electricity tax on mines and the reduction of tax subsidies on peat. This is what's taking you around the pine cones, isn't it? After all, we cannot make such a policy by which we derail our efforts, the work, the way we obtain the money. That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u113	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u114	Mr President! In this hall, the Greens, as better people on the head, have been saying that they would not cut out of education. That is why I would like to ask how it is possible that this alternative budget of yours shows that, for example, you are not proposing the restoration of the higher education index, EUR 37.5 million. You do not propose to the municipalities, for example, to cancel the savings in early childhood education or vocational training. This shadow budget of yours pierces the bubble, and you would also increase the taxes of men.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u115	And Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u116	Madam President! The fact that the government has chosen a job, a line of work, as its top priority and target is the only right, sustainable way of ensuring that we can secure the services that are important to us and important transfers of income for those whose livelihoods are not enough. We have currently achieved some 30,000 new jobs since the government started, and we have countless reforms either in the pipeline or here in Parliament to be approved, and it is undeniable that they will increase their work in Finland. We will continue on this line of reform. We are making further reforms to the Finnish economy and society so that more and more people can participate in the labour market. But it is essential — when we see from the world that the constant reform that this global world and the global economy are driving us into creates uncertainty, it takes people's jobs, it makes working life more precarious — that we must pay particular attention to making these reforms so that we keep people involved and we justify the decisions and reforms that we are making. On the day when the employment rate in Finland is 72 per cent, we also run out of debt. This is where the government will do everything it can. And now that we have this budding growth, it really is not the time, although the pace of debt is horrifying that we are now doing that belting. We must take these reforms forward, support growth, and there is a place in the spring where we must see if we need to do more. And even then, Mr Arhinmäki, the new structural measures to support competitiveness, growth and employment, not cuts, will be a priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u117	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u118	Madam President! Honest talk from Minister Orpo when he said that the path of surgery leads nowhere. We can see that in next year's budget: you cut medical benefits, you cut student aid, you cut pensions, unemployment benefit, services, the list is endless. And what is the result? It is now precisely the economic policy that needs to be changed in such a way that it employs people, that it creates jobs and thus brings stability to the economy. You are using this debt money that you are now taking, the high-income wage earners, who earn more than EUR 7000 a month, to reduce taxation, and you are using it for the most high-income entrepreneurs. The masseuses or duds mentioned by Minister Soin will not benefit from this reduction in your entrepreneurship. They Would Benefit
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u119	Mr President! One of the strong foundations of the welfare society is sound public finances. Today, economic growth is emerging and employment has improved, but this debate shows that the serious budgetary situation is not fully appreciated. I have looked forward to an alternative budget for the SDP in particular with interest and enthusiasm, but this is quite disappointing. In virtual reality it is easy to move the figures, but the impact assessment is rather short, and it is quite a key issue. I have been waiting for what factors to be put forward, what will improve our competitiveness and, in particular, our export competitiveness. Very thin are lunches. Now we should all invest in growth together. That lack of an alternative budget is not improved by popular good rhetoric. There must be a real basis, and that is what is missing from your budget proposal. Now it's important that we go together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u120	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask myself again why this is not good enough, that 95% of us will be able to benefit from such a difficult recession next year that we are making a fairer tax policy. Why do we want only a small proportion of Finns to benefit from the crumbs left by the rich? I don't understand this logic. Why isn't this good enough, Deputy Prime Minister Soini? I think you should think that people with very low incomes who earn less than EUR 6000 could benefit more from this at a very small distance. Why can't I do that? Another special thing has been the fact that this one actually owes money. I do not know whether you are aware, Minister of Finance Orpo, that you are in debt to Finland because you are putting together the benefits of these huge cuts for those who are the best off, and that is wrong. While we still owe less than you, I wonder why such an option is not acceptable. Besides, you turn to the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u121	Honorable Speaker! It is true that we have to seek work, well-being, economic growth and investment in Finland together. The opposition has made its own choices and they deserve good and proper treatment. There are good things there, but there are also certain inconsistencies or injustices. Among other things, this wage-earning model presented by the SDP favours more than 40,000 to 60,000 earners. Hundreds more are given to them each year, 200 in it for 40,000 earners, but for those on low incomes who receive only 15,000 a year, more will be left in hand five a month. I think this is unfair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u124	Madam President! First of all, I would like to leave a note in the parliamentary record of Mrs Katainen's claim that during the last period the social democrats have weakened the services of the elderly. On the contrary, last season, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, a historic Act on the services of the elderly was prepared and adopted in Parliament, which you are now, the government, seriously weakening and deeply concerned about — not only the elderly themselves, but also their loved ones and the people who are working with the elderly. The second thing is that this powerful confrontation is amazing. The Social Democrats bring a good alternative budget that supports well-being, knowledge, employment, it is also fair and economicly balanced. And, as has been said many times here to Mr Orvo and also to Mr Soin, this proposal also includes:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u125	Madam President! Well, you did weaken the care of the elderly, didn't you? You weakened the quality recommendations and lowered the then nurseship to that 0.5. However, I would like to make it clear — when you mention here that older people are deprived of the right to a responsible worker who knows the care and needs of a person — that there is going to be a self-employed worker who knows, among other things, medicine and care. For example, he will be a health professional. Do you think they don't have any medical skills? I ask you again, because we are living in tough times: what do you think of the care workers? Are you prepared, ladies and gentlemen, to give them the opportunity to be assisted — not to replace professionals, but to be assisted — because we need all the resources we need, we need every expert in the care of the elderly? But you did.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u126	Madam President! During the last term I was vice-chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and in this connection we had a very tough discussion with the government parties, and how Parliament can jointly define quality recommendations at the level of the law, that they will have a firm and competent staffing. A joint declaration on this subject was created, which defined the minimum size of staff and was adopted by Parliament. As a result, a monitoring system was put in place, which led to the finding that throughout Finland this necessary staffing was not carried out everywhere, which resulted in the Social Democrats trying to make this legislation valid in the government. But as we know, not all the government parties wanted that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u127	Madam President! It was July, during summer vacation, when the quality recommendations were renewed, and yes, the number of nurses was actually weakened. It was weakened from 0.6 to 0.7 to 0.5. But what we are not doing at the moment must be remembered. Yes, I am a nurse, and I agree that it is questionable to reduce the amount of care taken, and the ministers know that I have been critical of it, but I am also presenting an alternative. I would like to ask you again: do you receive care assistants, among other things? I believe that we should pool our resources and we should also give work to those who can help us and take a catch for that nursing work. Where a professional person has done his job, the care assistant could continue. So do you accept them, or are you against them too?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u128	Mr President! If you think of the care of the elderly, last season our thinking was based on the fact that one number is not enough to tell you the need. The Coalition Party wants to leave what is the need for care, not what is a single number. It is almost in principle possible to say that the figures that have been rounded up today may not even be enough. We have more and more elderly people who need a great deal of personal input. In that regard, it is quite absurd to start thinking about it through one chapter, but it must go on the basis of the need for care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u129	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister, Mr Soin, who was responsible to Mr Laukkanen for this police matter. It'll be great if the government ever cancels bad decisions. We know for ourselves who have been in the government at the time that decisions are also taken by governments that should always be withdrawn if they are deemed necessary. But another point — of course, I would like the Foreign Minister to be able to answer it: we Christian Democrats have asked several times in this debate whether you would be able to reconsider this matter of carerism. Because that too should be withdrawn. We know that the elderly need more services, that they are a growing number, and that more hands are needed for treatment. So, Secretary of State Soini, here's another challenge. Could you answer that, please?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u130	Madam President! We must agree that improving employment is our most important task. Knowing that at the moment Germany and Sweden are much ahead of us — there is a much higher employment rate — and we also know that experts say that we have too rigid a labour market, we have to reform, so it is very good that the government has now also taken up this RKP proposal that we are now trying to find at least one thing in this House that we could agree on, which would even slightly improve employment at the moment. I am happy to move on with that and I hope that every opposition group will have the will to do so now, because this is an extremely important issue. But then, Mr President, we have not responded to our proposal for a family leave system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u131	Madam President! There has been much talk of populism today, and I would like to draw attention to the populism of the United States. In this respect, coalition ministers and many representatives have suggested, among other things, that green actions would threaten Finnish jobs and so on. Now let's move on to realism and talk about the right things. Inefficient company subsidies, as it used to be, and industry like this in the wrong way of support, which does not produce any results, in the name of competitiveness and such overcompensations — the Coalition Party has for some reason been really clammy about our and indeed experts' views about going through these things again. However, these are hundreds of millions, and it does raise the question of how it is possible that the assembly has become a party that speaks out in favour of loose public spending.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u132	Mr President! The government wants to raise the employment rate to 72%, and I think that is a good objective. But unfortunately, even after that, there will be too many unemployed people. That is why the Left Alliance wants to contribute to this in its own shadow budget, with an increase of 50 million in subsidies for employment. When you look at the government’s achievements on how the pay subsidies have been reduced, then as a result we have had 15,000 fewer paid employment jobs and instead such unpaid employment relationships have become about 10,000 more, so that at the moment there are some 35,000 who are not getting paid. They are either on a work trial or on an internship, something like that, they work without pay. Would it not be much more humane to give them the opportunity to earn a living with paid work and to increase the wage support employment budget in order to get these things right?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u133	Madam President! First of all, I must say thank you to Mr Lindström for his frank speech and for telling us that you will cut off the poor. But that argument was quite incomprehensible to me: you are cutting off the poor in order to balance the economy and we need investment. Do you really believe that the poor have enough money to manage investment and balance the economy? Would it not be better to take that money from the rich who have it and not from the poor who do not have it? Moreover, when they are taken from them they must then take it out of social services, because a person in this country cannot survive without money. Only money is what you get bread for. I am surprised that you do not want to seize our shadow budget. We are bringing 35,000 new jobs. We're giving employees more money. Why isn't it good enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u134	Mr President! I will now take up just a few questions about these alternative budgets in this minute. It's a good thing we're having a conversation. First of all, I must thank the RKP for the very good and responsible alternative, but I do not quite understand the idea of ending the Rural Development Agency, Mavi, which you have. I do not believe that the legal security of Finnish farmers will improve by moving decision-making here to Helsinki, south, further away from those farmers. It's not gonna help this situation. In my opinion, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has carried out a very good study of the possible cooperation between Evira and Mavi, even the merger. It is worth making progress, there are now good project leaders, and let us go this way forward. But, President-in-Office, this alternative budget for the Greens is such a paper that it is somehow as excellent as it is that there is probably no area of work, enterprise, investment, investment that would not be taxed in your alternative budget. I wonder where there's money for all the good you're offering now. Where's the money tree?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u135	Mr President! It is true that responsible economic policy is to weigh value choices in what the limited amount of money should be put into. In my opinion, the biggest mistake the government has made has been the criticisms you have received from experts that you only use expenditure cuts as a means of adjustment — the tax element should be used more. It has started to be used little this year, it is true, but still very little. It is important for the Greens not to cut back on what is most valuable, on what our future is based on, namely research, product development, education and, for example, day care, because that is how women get to work when the price of day care is in order. We have therefore fostered these important services. But, formally, there are many gaps in our tax base, in our tax system, because a lot of reductions have been made which experts do not consider useful for employment or effective. That's what we're gonna do. In addition, we are abolishing subsidies for fossil fuels, admittedly for transport companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u136	Mr President! We want to dismantle bureaucracy and, in particular, unnecessary bureaucracy, and at the moment our farmers are under very great pressure with regard to bureaucracy. That is why, Mr Kurvinen, we believe that we can manage in this country without Mavia. We can take one of the administrative stairs out of there. Because today we have three levels of government and a fourth level of control. This measure will reduce red tape and improve efficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u137	Mr President! As an expert in the care of the elderly, as a trainer and as a developer, I would like to return to this nursing qualification. Regardless of what was decided on the size of care for the elderly over the last period, this government's proposal will dramatically weaken this situation. Even if a representative Lauslahti stated that a number or a number does not solve anything, so in this context it does, because this means that in the future there will be only one nurse in the care community of 14 residents on the morning or evening shift. Yes, this is a figure from which everyone understands that it will no longer be possible to talk about quality care and care. I really hope that Mrs Juvonen will now be able to translate the heads of ministers, that we will be able to reverse this inhumane decision. This is really wrong for our elderly people, that they can't go to the bathroom, that they can't eat, that they can't live a human life with this dimension,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u138	Mr Orpo has asked for the floor, but before that, Mr Laitinen-Pesola and Mr Andersson will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u139	Mr President! I, too, would like to address this debate on care for the elderly in the sense that this debate has shown how problematic it is when we have one chapter that is being invoked. With regard to this chapter, it is easy to say that the minimum will be the maximum that will be respected, so we should understand that the need for customer care will be determined and, if necessary, it should be possible to increase or even sometimes reduce the number of staff. I would therefore like us to get out of this one chapter debate so that at some point we would be in a situation where we would have such a national care measure, which would then allow us to target the number and competence of staff in real time. But, of course, I personally feel that this 0.4 is beginning to sound rather worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u140	Mr President! I would like the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, to be honest in this debate about borrowing debt and I would also urge the Minister of Finance to look at the government's own budget proposal for next year and compare it, for example, with the alternative budget now proposed by the Left Alliance. So next year, the government will take on 6 billion more debts. In addition, you cut the livelihoods of the most low-income Finns, thus cutting national pensions, unemployment benefit, student aid, education and tax deductions for high-income earners. In the alternative budget of the Left Alliance, this debt will rise by 600 million. Compared to this EUR 6 billion, it is a relatively small change, but the biggest change is that, in our alternative, we do not cut off the low incomes and we secure sufficient resources for education, research and product development. Finally, Mr Orpo, I would also like you to answer the question I raised in the group statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u141	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u142	Mr President! First, it is stated that the government does not assume any additional debt in its decision-making capacity. What is the reason for the debt? This is mainly due to unemployment — which is still at a high level, but it has been the first time that new jobs have been created for a long time — it is because pension expenditure has increased and it is because the cost of immigration has increased significantly. So these aren't decision-making, they're those things that come. These are the main explanatory factors to the increase in debt, and that is why, once again, I am returning to the fact that employment and its improvement are everything. With regard to the situation of the poorest, the competitiveness pact and tax solutions, I would now like to remind you that the government has raised it to 63 million, which was the amount of compensation for people not covered by the Kiki agreement, and this is done with an extension of the low-income reduction, which is a very important measure. Well, as far as competitiveness and harmful subsidies are concerned, I would first of all like to say from the government's tax policy that the taxation of labour will be reduced — the work that is at the heart of Finnish welfare — and at the same time the harmful taxes will be increased by 200 million. And then, to this age-old age, we argue whether these are harmful and pointless subsidies. You saw last week when an international forest industry company reported annually that it closed down two paper mills. Not from Finland, but I can tell you that it is also the case that when these companies make these decisions — whether they are steel companies, all of which are in everything, for example, in Northern Ostrobothnia, or the paper industry, or many others — it may be a small matter that the decision will be taken if there is still too much capacity, as is the case, and I am still not prepared to take the risk that, with the reduction of these subsidies, we will put at risk the tens of thousands of jobs that we have there. I'm not ready for that. Nevertheless, the government has agreed that, in the forthcoming mid-term review and by then, all business subsidies will be reviewed and, after thorough and careful preparation, we will look for those so-called unnecessary subsidies, and it will be great if they are found. Now to this question of the police. Indeed, today, it was agreed between the chairmen of the government parties — and the preparation for it was the result of the work that began when the government responded to the work of violent extremists, and in that it became a matter of concern to secure the number of policemen — that EUR 10 million will be allocated to this next year, which will enable us to ensure that the work of some 200 policemen and women with fixed-term employment will continue next year. With this, we will stay well above 7,000 policemen and women... [President MariaLohela : to Mr Soin2minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u145	Madam President! I was looking at the opposition parties' proposals on how to raise money to combat the black economy. The Left Alliance wants 10 million dollars in income, the Christian people want 20 million dollars in income, and the Social Democrats want 200 million. This can't be in Elon's or Ojala's math. This doesn't make any sense. There are three different assessments, and which one is correct? Well, the answer is nothing. Madam President! — The speech is impressive because it stimulates debate. — What am I very happy about? I'm very happy...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u146	Mr President! I would have returned to this fight against the shadow economy because a major programme was adopted during the last government term. It invested 20 million, and together with the Coalition Party and other governments, it set the goal of generating between 200 and 300 million revenue from that investment, and no one denied it. The question now is that we have made a long programme for this period, 20 million contributions, which, if successful, will bring significant results to the state, for example, in the fact that tax numbers come into sectors other than the construction sector — it alone will bring significant results. Of course, it will then require additional input from the government to ensure that this can be done, but we have a programme ready for it, and it is very credible. However, it is very important for social acceptability that the black economy should be vigorously combated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u147	Mr President! In my opinion, the absolute gem of this alternative budget for our demars is that 95% of employees and pensioners get more money in hand than they do now. It is important, that is to say, Mr Soini, that the Social Democrats are still the Labour Party,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u152	Mr President! Now that I have finally received the floor, one must wonder that when we increase the purchasing power of low-income earners and the hand-in-hand income of low-income and middle-income earners, someone says that it is wrong to add, that is, the amount, the effort that has been made to add to what the government has been prepared to give — but in such a way that, as is right, taxation at the level of the MP's income is tightened. For low incomes, we offer more percentages. And yes, the average-paid Finn gets the most in hand, so 95 per cent of Finnish employees benefit. The tax burden on pensioners will be even lower in order to reduce the tax gap between employees and pensioners by nearly one million pensioners — EUR 100 million in investment in pension income. The recipient of the average earnings-related pension benefits EUR 160 per year. The choice now has to be made whether the winner is 95% of employees and 95% of pensioners or 5% of the elite. We know your options. True Finns here speak warmly of pharmacies. Our choice is a different one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u153	Madam President! Last week, I read Raimo Sailas' biography of Lama's artist. From this book, I'd like to quote one point. It says here: "He is saddened by the state of his own background party, the SDP. Now that the SDP used to have its own economic policy skills so that its heads were racing, there seems to be no place for realistic economic policy in the party." Unfortunately, this alternative budget, with its contradictions and without a serious income base, is precisely an indication that the parliamentary group of three former finance ministers is unable to make a realistic economic policy, as Mr Sailas has said here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u156	Mr President! Indeed, it has been said here by both ministers and MPs in the government that the situation of public finances is not understood here in the opposition. I wonder, however, how, in a situation where there is an opportunity to cut off the most low incomes and there is a chance to cut down: a reduction in forest gifts, a reduction in inheritance tax and a reduction in tax on gifts and this unfair reduction in entrepreneurial activity. The government's housing policy must be added to this same friend capitalism. They are prepared to give direct money to construction companies on the pretext that Finland needs — and indeed needs — affordable housing production.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u157	Mr President! There's one important thing we haven't talked about today. It is blue and white ownership and business development. So I ask the Left Alliance when you propose to put earned income and capital income in one and into a progressive category, how you see how Finland benefits from this, because I have the impression that capital is already running out of Finland quite a bit, and when capital is running out of Finland, companies are not necessarily being developed. We are deprived of capital income and, through different mechanisms, we are deprived of inheritance tax and gift tax. When you consider it a responsible party, of course, to make impact assessments in this Chamber, I ask you: How have you analysed that when you raise capital taxes, what happens to this financial sector internationally? How much capital is going out of Finland, and how does it affect us? And if you don't know, estimate the amount of money left in recent years to the nearest billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u158	Mr President! In the election, you, Minister Soini, were still working for the poor. One week before the election, you promised me a tax-free income of less than EUR 1000. Now I ask: where are the measures to secure this election promise, or where are the measures to bring in the poverty programme you have promised? I can say that the poor people have been rather surprised, among your supporters, by the policy you are pursuing. Unemployed, low incomes, pensioners, students, families with children and people with a lot of disabilities are at the top of your operating list. All these surgeries force people into the livelihood hatches. In the run-up to the elections, you also appeared as a friend of the workers and women, and one can say that, in order to improve employment, the government's own efforts have been thin and, unfortunately, little has been discussed in this Chamber today. There are many issues in the SDP's programme, both in terms of industrial policy and employment;
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u159	Mr President! The alternative budget for the RKP has already been commended on many occasions here, and I too agree with the President-in-Office's assessment that family leave should at least be planned very hard this season and perhaps only next season then be implemented for reform. You have already given details about it, but I missed the economic impact too. It is by no means cost-neutral, is it not?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u162	Mr President! Surgery is planned for reimbursement of medicines, and I am very concerned about whether the lowest incomes will be able to afford to buy the medicines they need in the future. It is inhumane if a person has to choose whether to buy food or medicine prescribed by a doctor in Finland. Diseases are getting worse and new costs are incurred, and the situation in the affected families is even worse, as the effects of the cuts are multiplying. Another big issue, a concern, is these indoor air problems, which affect at least 800,000 Finns. The loss, not only human but also the loss to the national economy, is significant, for example, due to the loss of working years or the continuing spirals in school and kindergarten buildings. This is the kind of problem that I would really like the government to catch and take action on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u163	Mr President! It is regrettable that I have been given this floor after Minister Soini has left this Chamber. He clearly either misunderstood or did not listen to my first speech, which I made. I did not say a word about relations between Finland and the United States, but the point of my message was that in such an uncertain time when people are concerned about their future, their work, how they are doing, it is important that policies and decisions be made that unite people who narrow the gap between the poor and the good, by no means widen it. This was the essence of my speech, and I hope that Mr Soini will read it in writing in Parliament's information when it was clearly not correctly interpreted in his own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u164	Mr President! The target employment rate of 72 per cent was reached in 2014 in Ostrobothnia, Central Ostrobothnia and Uusimaa. When it comes to national reforms and economic policy, it is good to remember that in the global economy regional business clusters and clusters of know-how compete with each other globally. In fact, the Government Programme makes a good mention of the need to gather knowledge into internationally competitive concentrations. However, this big picture and the philosophy of the dismantling of standards does not fit in, for example, with a legal, explicit ban on developing special medical care on the coast of Ostrobothnia. In the future, services will not be financed by the tenths of a percentage point of compromise or political cow trade, but through high-level exports based on excellence. In particular, cuts in education and research resources should be withdrawn from those areas and sectors where private companies invest on market terms, taking into account, for example, the smart energy solutions market created by the Paris Climate Agreement and other megatrends.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u165	Mr President! The SDP wants to cancel the reduction in car tax that the Finns promised in their election program.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u166	Mr President! Just for the record to the previous speaker, I think it is the only one here who accused the Prime Minister of being a populist of a moment ago of the parliamentary information service. But in any case, this concern stems from the fact that the Finns, for example — and the whole government — want the car tax to be reduced, there will be enough money for it, you will have plenty of money for the tax deductions of millions of inheritances, forest gifts, tax reductions for high incomes. I think the Finns have invented a mirror: the exact opposite of what was said before the elections. Now it is a question of what is being asked here, Minister Orpo: if the SDP offers a fairer tax option that explicitly benefits 95% of employees, 95% of pensioners, hardworking families with children,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u167	Mr President! The world is increasingly uncertain, and people have great concerns about their own survival as well as their children’s future. Unfortunately, the government budget is already increasing the uncertainty of the most vulnerable. It cuts social security, unemployed people, pensioners, students, disabled people and sufferers. We are often told that there are no alternatives, but today we opposition parties have presented our own options, and we Greens, in our own option, do not cut off these lowest incomes, and we show that it is also possible to make a human policy in such an economically difficult position where Finland is. Future faith is also disappearing because education is being cut so much that more and more families have to wonder if there is any more money left.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u168	Mr President! I still wonder about the demographic position in this tax policy. They would be raising the capital tax, which would inevitably lead to our companies running off to the south of the bay, for example, as has already been the case in many cases. Is this what you really want?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u172	The debate is now at a time when I will give the floor to the following representatives: Mr Östman, Mr Henriksson, Mr Andersson, Mr Niinistö and Mr Lindtman. Then I would like to speak to Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u173	Mr. Speaker! When this reign began, one of the greatest challenges was how to reach a social contract. Then we saw how rigid the labour market is in this country, and later it turned into a competitiveness pact, which is a good step forward, but it is not yet quite sufficient. For these reasons, among other things, the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament has put forward a proposal in its own alternative budget to try to intervene in this financial system insofar as we have a rigid labour market. It has been said on many occasions that these organisations do not want to get along, and if they do, they must go through so many rounds of negotiations. That is why I would like to ask the Minister of Finance for a statement when you look at page 6, where we have these, the Ay member movement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u174	Let's hold on to this minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u175	Mr President! Unfortunately, Secretary Soini has left. I would also have told him, when he apparently had not noticed that the RKP also invests EUR 20 million in fighting the black economy and we are counting that at least EUR 40 million will come back from it now. It is a modest wish, but we believe in it. This is because by investing in the black economy we are also able to defend the honest entrepreneurs we have in this country and must always be defended. The RKP would also increase the household allowance. It would create new jobs, and it would also reduce the shadow economy. Then there's this family leave reform. Representative Elsi Katainen, we have clear calculations based on the Parliamentary Information Service. It would cost EUR 177 million next year. It fits into this alternative budget, and this is a value choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u176	Mr President! I too would have been happy to reply directly to Minister Soin when he criticised the opposition for very moderate proposals on the fight against the shadow economy. Minister Soini is obviously not aware that the Finns of Finland in their own alternative budget for 2015 put forward additional investments of EUR 15 million, in which case they expected more returns of EUR 150 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u179	Mr President! In this regard, the issue of how to create growth and employment and the future for Finland through a reduction in forest gifts became an interesting one, so that the economy is reformed and successful in international competition. In fact, this government does not reform structures or reform the economy. You are talking about it, but what you are doing is cutting the key future efforts through education. It's not a system renovation either. It's an operation. In addition to that, you are mainly making more tax deductions for different categories of beneficiaries. When I have talked to entrepreneurs, which is the main obstacle to growth, with which they improve their competitiveness, then it always comes down to the fact that employment should be easier — the cost of work, the taxation of work, the ability to reconcile different flexible practices. In other words, we should move in the direction of local reconciliation so that employers and workers, both of them, can have good flexibility for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u180	Mr President! I would like to thank the government, and in particular the Minister for Finance, who was here with us throughout this debate. It is part of parliamentary democracy that the government presents its own options and the opposition presents its own options. And while you can say here that the sabers were flying in the air, I think there was something left in hand. Let me add a little: Income differentials — the government was unable to deny that the government’s model of income differentials are increasing, while the SDP’s option of income differentials is decreasing. But there's one more thing that's gonna stay in the air. When you have refused to reply, is a model that allows 95% of employees and pensioners to have more money left in their hands, then I ask: does the old saying apply that silence is a sign of consent?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u183	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u184	Mr President! Let's start with the answers, and then we'll go on to the thanks. First of all, with the government's tax solutions, each employee's taxation will be reduced, each pensioner's taxation will be reduced. And where does that basic model come from? It's the one that got rid of the Kiki deal. I think this is encouraging to do a job. I have said here before that we also have the greatest progress in the world in Finland. That too must be acknowledged at times, and I therefore consider the even solution of 0.6 to be fair. But it comes on top of a reduction in earnings of 450 million, which affects the lowest earnings and hence the threshold for receiving work and also the tax wedge on work. They're exactly the same. Of course, the opposition is doing a little more, isn't it? But when it comes to deleveraging, I think you have a problem there where the income comes from. That's a big problem. That's a hole of hundreds of millions. Then, on the other hand, is the robbery of 350 million Sitra and 60 million from the Bank of Finland, these are also undisputed. But, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank you for having a debate now, and fortunately we still have plenty of these opportunities in this autumn and the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u187	All right, now we move on to the list of speakers. Congressman Sarkkinen. — and the pre-reserved speeches are limited to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u188	Mr President! There are always options in politics, politics is the art of alternatives. The government's proposal for a state budget is one possible option, but certainly not the only one. Today, opposition parties have presented their own options for next year's budget and as an alternative to the policy of the Sipilä Government. The Government's proposal for a 100-year-old Finland budget for 2017 is hard to read in many places, as the budget undermines many of the basic principles and strengths of Finnish society. The Government seems to have abandoned the basic ideals and strengths of Finnish society, namely a steady distribution of income, investing in education and research, and caring for the weakest. It is sad and sad that 100-year-old Finland is celebrated with a budget that increases income differentials, takes from the poor and gives to the rich and cuts skills and education hard. The basic principles of the left-wing alternative budget are the economic policy line to reduce income and wealth disparities and support employment, education and research policies to support knowledge and economic renewal, and social policies to reduce poverty. We want to build a just and renewable 100-year-old Finland. Unlike the government, we do not operate on students, pensioners, sick or families with children. We do not cut out care for the elderly, medical benefits, education or research. Instead, we want to increase the taxation of capital and cancel the tax cuts for those on good income. It's about choices. Unlike the government, we do not take from the poor and give to the rich. A tax line that favours the rich of the government is no necessity; it is an ideological choice. Within the same economic framework, a different policy can be adopted. Mr President! The government is proposing massive cuts to student support. No other basic benefit will be cut as much as from study aid. The Government proposes lowering the level of support for higher education to EUR 250 for the current EUR 336, i.e. a monthly cut of more than EUR 80 for people already on low incomes. In addition, the Government proposes to limit the maximum amount of study aid for university studies by 10 months. The cutting of the already small student allowance is the government's political choice of values and continues the hateful course of education and education. The government talks about the importance of deleveraging, but despite massive cuts, it will not succeed in breaking the debt, but will increase the central government debt by EUR 6 billion next year. But during the process, students will also be forced to go into debt. The reduction of student allowance is also likely to increase the inheritance and inequality of education, and Finland, as a small nation, could not afford that. Reductions in education and research have been identified by many experts as irresponsible and destructive policies in terms of employment and economic development. A irresponsible and poor employment policy is also cutting back on research and product development. Business R & D aid is one of the most effective business aids, but it is it that is cut hard, while increasing the less efficient business aid. This doesn't make much sense. The left-wing alternative budget cancels cuts in student support and education and increases company innovation and product development support, which according to the study have the best employment and economic impact. However, the most inhumane of all may be surgery on the care of the elderly. This means that there are fewer nurses per elderly person, fewer human encounters, and less quality of care. We all know that the nurses are already tight and we cannot afford to operate on the care of the elderly. At the same time as the care of the elderly is being cut, inheritance taxes on high incomes are being reduced. This is a harsh policy of values. These listed surgeries are not a necessity but a choice. They could be reversed by cancelling tax reductions for the rich. Mr President! We do not want to be part of the government’s efforts, where the low-income do all the work while the high-income enjoy all the lunches reserved for the volunteers. The left is based on the fact that this country does not rise from low incomes and sick people by cutting, but by investing in knowledge, education and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u189	Mr President! The main risk for Finland's economy is that structural reforms that increase employment will not progress and that the economy will only be adjusted by means of expenditure cuts. At the end of this road is the erosion of the income base, the increase in unemployment and its costs, and the subsequent cuts. In order to prevent this negative spiral, structural reforms in support of employment and growth investments in support of them are needed. When interest rates are low and unemployment is high, it is worth repairing mold schools and building tracks. It creates jobs for people and generates tax revenue for the state. The Greens also propose a fixed-term reduction in the secondary costs of the first employee's salary. In concrete terms, it will make it easier for entrepreneurs and enable them to hire a new workforce. A reduction in pay side costs will help the company grow, create jobs, growth and tax revenues. When the money is scarce, the various reductions must be targeted to support employment, not inefficiently by means of friend capitalism. Climate change must be slowed down, otherwise we will no longer be able to live in this society. We need active action. The Greens' choice of values is to try to slow down the progress of climate change, and that is what we are doing by cutting subsidies that are harmful to the environment, among other things. In our view, the electricity bills supported by the tax resources of mines are not justified. In our view, it is justified to live within the limits of the earth’s carrying capacity. Basic income dismantles incentive traps and encourages activity. It makes it possible to accept work without fear of losing vital support. Basic income is a reform of social security for the needs of changing working life. That is why the Greens want to test the basic income properly and propose additional resources for it. The current forms of business aid to the polluting industry do not contribute to industrial renewal. Finland must look ahead. Economic growth relies on our country's ability to reform the economy and business. The State Economic Research Centre (VATT) has estimated that the refund of energy taxes on industry now paid will not improve competitiveness. Mr President! The Greens' 2017 alternative budget will continue to replace the cuts in education with cuts in environmentally harmful subsidies. This is because it's always smarter to operate on something harmful than something useful. Politics is always based on value choices. The government has presented its own, and now it is time to be seen and heard. Economic growth relies on productivity. Productivity can be improved through new innovations, skilled workers and research and product development. It therefore makes no sense to cut directly from our potential growth. Productivity growth also requires the ability and courage to renew. If we want to increase the productivity of the economy and thus the conditions for sustainable growth, it is necessary to reform our economy and its structures from the old pro-business thinking to the new pro-market thinking. This alternative budget takes small but significant first steps towards sustainable growth in the future, but there is still work to be done for many years to come. Mr President! With the employment rate, we will rise or fall. Our employment rate determines the amount of economic adjustment. We agree with the government on the importance of the employment rate target; we do not agree with the government on the means to achieve it. In the context of the budget, the government also presented a number of good and worthwhile measures to boost employment. Examples include extending the use of unemployment benefits, five new transport projects and additional money for basic access. Instead, the actual employment package is still waiting to be done, and the overall economics estimate is that the government will not reach its employment rate target of 72% by means of current measures. In order to achieve that employment objective, we need both short-term and long-term measures. We need a reform of the wider structures, but budget solutions are also important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u190	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr Talman! Svenska riksdagsgruppen har alltid betonat att statekonomistin ska skotas ansvarsfult. Därför bygger vi vår alternativa budget på samma låntagningsbehov som regeringens budget. Vi lånar inte mer, men vi prioriterar våra samhällssatsningar annorlunda. Vi satsar på utbildning och på en tämligen radical familijepolitisk helhetsreform. Också med vår kattepolitik vill vi motivera till arbete och företagande. Målet med beskattningen bör alltid vara att samla in tillräckligt med pengar för att kunna upprätthålla vårt nordiska valfärdssamhä. Vi föreslår en skatteväxling som går längre än regeringen i målsättningen att änka Skatten på arbete. Vi höjer mervärdesskatten försiktigtigt med 0,5 percentheter och vi använder de drygt 400 million euro som vi får in på mumshöjningen till inkomstskattelätttnader över hela linjen, men också på andra åtgärder som särskilt stärker låginkomstagares och pensionärers disponibla inkomster. Och rauh vill jag tydligt framhålla att vi med hjälp av riksdagens utredningstjänst har byggt upp vår katteväxling så att inkomstklyftorna inte växer utan köpkraften stärks hos alla samhällsgrupper.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u191	Irade the Talman! Ett gemensamt ansvar för våra barn, för jämställdhet, för jämlikhet, låt vara att det är frågan om kvinnors ställning eller senmkomna flyktingbarn. Det har variant traditionellt en tradition i Finland att det rauh också angår samhället och att det också är på politikernas, på regeringens ansvar att stå för det rauta. Och jag hoppas innerligt att regeringen inte avstår från sådant rauta, ett sådant ätt ät tänka, aven om statsministern kanske i många ord i dag fann liiketer med den nyvalda Presidenten i USA:s bakgrund.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u192	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Finland har redan i många år stått inför ekonomiska utmangar och dessa utmangar ser ut att fortsätta en god tid framöver. Svenska riksdagsgruppen visor i sin alternativa budget att det går att föra en ansvarful ekonomisk politiik i dessa utmanande tider. Vi behöver inte göra kortsiktiga nedskärningar i bistånd, utbildning och studyistöd. Vår alternativa budget ökar inte lånebördan mer än vad regeringens budgetförslag gör. Det går alltså att priorera annorlunda, men det behövs visioner, mod och cereals att genomföra strukturella förändringar och långtida satsningar. I stället för att skära vill vi reformera och investera i Finlands framtid. Det finns ett bättre alternativ. En av valperiodens viktigaste prioriteringar måste vice sysselsättningen. Nya jobb leder till battre economist och valfärd. Det är endast genom jobb och ög sysselsättningsgrad som vi på lång sikt kan trygga Väldssamhället. Regeringens målsättning att skapa 110000 nya jobb och höja sysselsättningsgraden till 72 percent är rätt och kkonkurrenskraftsavtalet en bra början till det. Tyvärr verkar regeringen ändå nöja sig med detta trots att beräkningar visar att kkonkurrenskraftsavtalet inte senmt äcker till för att skapa tillräckligt med nya jobb. Vi behöver se över våra strukturer på arbetsmarknaden och tänka i nya banor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u193	Värderade Herr Talman! Svenska riksdagsgruppens alternativ till budget för 2017 visor att det även i ekonomiskt svåra tider är öjligt att prioritera och göra val. Vi anser att endast genom en hållbar tillväxt och ög sysselsättningsrad kan läfärdssamhället garanteras på lång sikt. Svenska riksdagsgruppen har därför presenterat tio punkter för att förbättra sysselsättningen. En av de viktigare åtgärderna är att skapa nya arbetsplatser i små och medelstora företag med hjälp av lokala avtal. Genom att tillåta och tinellampa lokala avtal i större utsträckning gör vi det lättare för mindre företag att anstalla. Finland har förutsättningar att vara en föregångare gällande hur enkelt det ska vara att anstalla och att anlita tjänster både för företag och privatpersoner. Arbete ska alltid vara lönsamt och det ska vara den primera utkomstkälän. Skyddsnäten ska ändå vara effektiva och snabbaktiverande vid tillfälliga avbrott i arbetslivet. Vi vill arbeta för en effectktiv arbetsmarknad med hög sysselsättningsgrad, ömsesigt förtroende, tydliga regler och få conflictter. Vi måste motarbeta flitfällor och andra trösklar som gör det olnsamt att ta estrot arbete. Det ska vara enklare att växla mellan företagande, lönearbete, arbetslöshet, deltidsarbete, föräldraledighet, student och pension. I will not give viktig åtgärd för att främja sysselsättningen är att höja hushållsavdraget. Genom att höja det övre taket för hushållsavdraget till 3000 euro och den avdragbara andelen av hushållsavdraget till 60 percent ökar vi katteintäkterna, stöder företagsamhet, sporrar kvinnodominerade serviceyrken och förbättrar sysselsättningen. Samtidigt förbättrar vi egenföretagarnas vöjligheter att verka och motverkar den grå economn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u194	Mr President! Today, if ever in this world, there is a need for advocates of equality, human rights and climate protection. It seems that looking back, fear and concern for the future have taken over. Today we need an alternative to build a future that takes care of our fellow citizens, defends equality and undivided human rights, and fights climate change without giving up. The green alternative budget is such an option. The green alternative budget looks to the future, guarantees every child and young person a good education and thus builds a good future for the whole of Finland. It reduces poverty and inequality. It invests in future growth sectors and fights climate change. Mr President! The world around us is constantly changing. It changes people's work, their everyday lives. We must look for lasting solutions to overcome these problems on the basis of scientific knowledge and facts. Therefore, good, equal and high-quality education will be more important in the future. That's our most valuable asset. Finland’s goal is to be the most competent people in the world. That is a good goal, and we must stick to it. However, the government is making historic major cuts in education at all levels of education. This is the wrong way. In these times we cannot afford to give up our most valuable capital, our know-how. That is why we Greens would reverse any cuts in education in our own budget. Mr President! We are the last generation to stop climate change. We know that climate change is our greatest threat. Mr President! In many families, the financial security of everyday life is becoming increasingly uncertain, and this government continues to cut off that security. It takes from the poor and gives to those who already have enough. It creates inequalities, increases income inequalities and drives people below the poverty line. At the same time, it cuts people's faith into tomorrow. Government cuts in social security are excluded from families with children, unemployed people, pensioners, students, disabled people, people with disabilities. This is not reasonable. The shadow budget of the Greens is based on the opposite principle. We don't cut people's basic security. We will see to it that the least-incomed also survive. That's why we're canceling the surgeries to basic security. At the same time, we show that human economic policy is also possible in difficult economic times. Mr President! News from the world and Finland are sometimes worrying for a number of reasons, but they are particularly worrying when it comes to equality. Finland, the model country for gender equality, is currently moving back towards the 50s in terms of equality. For the first time in many years, gender equality has deteriorated. This is the direct result of the Government’s mid-term competitiveness pact, which makes women in the public sector pay for the cost of promoting exports from the private sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u197	Mr President! This debate on the options for the opposition's budget has been quite interesting to follow up on, and a few comments I will go over in addition to that debate. Firstly, the fact that the Socialist option to finance their own alternative budget is incomprehensible. Sitra’s money is practically halved, yet their programme is committed to research and product development. After all, Sitra was created, 48 years ago, as an independent actor who makes various experiments and innovations, and most recently – we all know in this house – one important subject of research has been social and health care reform and related projects. So the Demars would coolly drive Sitra out of action. After all, Sitra operates on the return on its capital, and it has managed to do so. Even though it is controlled by Parliament, it is an independent actor, because it is financially active with its own money. To put an end to this is, of course, incomprehensible to the demars, who have always stood up for research and product development. It can be said that actions and speeches in this area are quite different. Secondly, the issue of the financial tax. At present, promising investments have been made in Finland. For example, the shipping industry has received new orders for its shipyards in Turku and Rauma, and many other related innovations and trades abroad are available. So we need capital. Now, if we put a financial tax on this situation, it will inevitably lead to a substantial obstacle to accessing capital to Finland. This decision by Nordea to withdraw from Finland can be considered as a good example. In this way, the Finnish bank will remain only a daughter bank. It will certainly make business and its financing in this country more difficult, because this bank did not, of course, accidentally do so, but was a well thought-out long-term act and also a risk-related position on the Finnish market. Such irresponsible speeches about a financial tax are something I find amazing when we are investing enormously in the forest industry, bioenergy and many other things. The same is true of raising the capital tax rate, which would respond to this situation in exactly the same way as the financial tax. Unwarranted speeches that can cause great harm to this country on the open market. Then there are a few comments on the green alternative budget. In your own proposal, you have reduced mileage allowances and reduced commuting reductions by nearly EUR 200 million. I am very surprised about Mrs Mikko, who is from North Karelia, the long-distance province: You are coldly hitting North Karelian workers with a hard hand. How do you explain this to the people of North Karelia, Mr Krista Mikkonen? You're about to remove the kilometer allowance for long distance workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u202	I think it's reasonable to give an answer. — Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u203	Thank you, Chairman! — The amount of compensation is currently around EUR 1 billion per year. We are proposing a small reduction, yes, EUR 120 million, which is due to the overcompensation of kilometric payments, and that is what we are prepared to do, because we believe that this money should be directed towards not cutting off education. And yes, we are also proposing a small discount for this commuting reduction, about 58 million in total. We want to create a model that supports less commuting in the region where public transport is, and where it is not, it will be replaced more because, contrary to what Mr Hoskonen said, these reductions are currently focused on private cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u204	Mr. Aalto, one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u205	Mr President! I am not quite sure whether it was Trump speaking or Mr Hoskonen speaking, that the same rhetoric was used. It is good to get to know the basics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u208	And the reply, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u209	Mr President! Indeed, there was quite a lot of message in Mr Mikkonen's speech that I, as a representative of the rural parliament, never thought I would hear. There is no overcompensation for the mileage payments — I have spent 25 years working where the use of my own car has been absolutely necessary — it is quite certain that I have never been able to change my car once with that money. I would like to see Mr Mikkonen, as chairman of the Group of the Greens, take a look at this. I am very surprised that you are directly attacking the people of the countryside, you are playing green economy, the bioeconomy, you are supporting biogas, but at the same time you are abolishing agricultural subsidies. Then who's gonna do the biogas? It is just like this Helsinki energy policy that even coals are hidden in a rock cave, away from the eyes, out of the mind, do not exist. Yes, there is an effective policy in your policy, I very much wonder. So is this peat: There is no overcompensation for peat taxation, it has a lower tax, it does not receive any tax subsidies. But that's your own rhetoric. When the feeling is true and reason is not involved, then
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u210	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u211	Mr President! When you look at these alternative budgets of the five opposition parties, you don't have to wonder why during the last parliamentary term, when all these were in the government, there were no reforms at all and the only thing that was achieved was that unemployment grew by 100,000 when it now fell. Gross domestic product fell in three years, now GDP is growing. Investments and competitiveness were down and weakened during the last parliamentary term, now they are improving. So these alternative budgets of opposition parties are so heterogeneous that there is no line, and when you were in the last government, in the previous governments, the results were indeed unfortunate, as Mr Sailas said in his previous book. Mr President! With regard to this issue of debt, I would like to point out once again that there has been a completely misleading talk here from the opposition. During the last parliamentary term, public debt actually grew by over 9 billion every year — over 9 billion every year — and, for example, in the EU, public debt is viewed, not sovereign debt alone, as you see. And now, after the last season, we have received this wave of immigration — not by Mrs Aalto, but by the wave of immigration —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u220	Mr President! From that immigration: I would not have talked about it, but when Mr Biaudet brought it up, I will mention it a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u227	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank colleagues for their good and very open speeches, but I actually wanted to come here and talk about alternatives, because that is what this is all about today. Last week we were at the Nordic Council meeting in Copenhagen, and we were able to see how other Nordic countries are working there. There were quite a few of us happy representatives there to see how Sweden, Denmark and Norway, for example, are doing well,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u230	Mr President! To the disappointment of Mr Kankaanniemi, I have just shown him that the title is indeed the Nordic financial tax. The goal is therefore the Nordic model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u233	Mr President! Today we have listened to these shadow budgets and to the joy of all of us. It was reported yesterday that this shadow budget of the SDP in particular has lost its terminology between tax rates and tax tables, and, of course, now remains to think about myself with all these other calculations, which, for example, have shown how these revenues are affected and how much debt is taken into account in the budget. There is a feeling that you can count on this, really, whether these other figures are right now. One thing I would like to ask: That spring came the SDP's kind of integration program. There were 150 different procedures, as I recall. When we discussed this a few months ago, the SDP told us that they would take less debt than the current government. Then I asked about the fact that when this programme of theirs was discussed in the spring, they did not say anything about the cost of this programme, and then they told me that you should wait for this in our shadow budget for 2016 for us to present those spending structures there. I've been through this and they're not here. That I still don't know. They integrate our immigrants because they want more immigration, but now there are no cost calculations of any kind for their 150 measures. I was told that I am a bit of a stupid person when I go to demand it on the basis of last autumn's shadow budget, and now I look forward to that calculation. Which page do I find that calculation, please?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u234	Mr President! I have good news and bad news for the opposition. The good news is that I am really glad that you have put your mind to things and made good proposals and proposals in these shadow budgets. But bad news is that they are not realistic. The SDP is dreaming. The Greens and the Left are not living in reality when it comes to how these good proposals — even good ones — are being financed. The removal of the entrepreneurial deduction envisaged in the shadow budget of the SDP would be detrimental to Finnish small entrepreneurs. We know that small entrepreneurs have limited opportunities for tax planning, so it would be difficult to compensate for the benefit of the reduction. We also know that small businesses play an important role in employment and, above all, in building the well-being of our country. Does the shadow budget of the SDP weaken the ability of small businesses, these self-employed, to grow and employ? I can say yes. It must be noted that these very small entrepreneurs, one-person companies, will also receive this 5% reduction. It's not huge, but it's a good direction. There are also other contradictions in the shadow budget of the SDP. It is claimed that the model of employment on the slope will generate between 140 million and 250 million for the state, but according to the parliamentary information service — an information service that is very often used by the SDP as a source of information — would increase expenditure by 350 million. This was also pointed out by Minister Lindström and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group, Terho of the PS. Mr President! The additional tax burden of EUR 198 million envisaged by the Greens in the shadow budget and the tightening of the dividend tax severely penalise Finnish SMEs and industrial competitiveness. In addition, the shadow budget would hamper the employment of people living in sparsely populated areas. These would largely water down the creation of new jobs and the profitability of taking up work. Not very encouraging in terms of Finland's competitiveness and increasing the employment rate. In addition, the total budget of the Greens is 183.6 million higher than the government's proposals. So, what do you say we take more debt?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u241	Mr President! We need alternatives from the opposition. Indeed, it is based on the fact that our alternative is more employable, fairer and more financially responsible. It's less debt-taking. We have done this with the theme 'everything to do' because our main concern is that at the moment government policy is such that small, unpartisan people are cut off and then the higher income will benefit from these government decisions. That's why we all want to go. We want people to have a good, sustainable chance of living, and we want people to have jobs. We also want services to play, the elderly to receive good care, a small child to have good education and day care. In case it is often the case that there is a great deal of knowledge about these things, but then it turns out that there has not been much familiarity with them, here from the outset, with the contents of this alternative budget, there are these key priorities: 'Different Finland', you know the criticism, its repeater, Then we have these entities, which we now offer to the government, from which you can catch. I hope as many of these performances as possible go through. In the past, our alternative budget has played a role in the fact that the government has withdrawn a great many of its foolish decisions. It's a good thing they've been canceled. That is why I believe that this government is the best proof in history that the opposition can also be influenced. "In the part of the board of smarts we deal with other old services, training, day care. We wouldn't be doing those cuts on these kids, on the old-age care that the government is doing. Then we have a whole new opening here, too, in the fact that we are talking about a 'promising promise', that is, a promise that every child and young person has the right to engage in a hobby without looking at the parents' purse. We think it's an important opening. "Finland's work line" :It's an old hat theme for the fall. Since the formation of a government, we have been waiting for these measures to be taken to promote employment here and now, but we have not seen them. So we have offered a number of opportunities that could be seized in order to create more jobs in Finland. "New growth visit": Here we are offering this new business package, which looks to the future, 120 million. I know that Mr Skinner and perhaps the Harakka spoke about this earlier. I think Haraka was also focused on the tax line. But specifically, new growth is also supported by the export industry, which has been asked a lot of questions here. We've got to get them to withdraw. The government has done nothing about it, but here we also offer opportunities for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u246	Mr President! From abroad I come to this debate, but in a few words I would like to comment on the important debate on alternative budgets, alternative budgets. Perhaps as a general comment, when in previous years, during the previous government, the economy contracted for three years in a row, now it is growing slightly, and the room for manoeuvre is really small. We see that it is simply not possible to present real structural options in the government budget. As you look at the alternative budget of the SDP, there are still no structural reforms in favour of employment, for example. The SDP assumes that there is no need for any cuts or structural reforms, either, and that taxation, however, can only safeguard the good. The alternative budget is also very different from what you said before the elections, and we have seen, for example, in the United States that the speeches before and after the elections are quite different. Well, then long-term expenditure is financed by one-off revenue. The government has a policy that makes a balance sheet for work, investments, and that's a good thing, but – we're there with Viitanen on Sitra's Board of Directors – this Sitra robbery is outrageous. It was really founded in honor of Finland's centenary of independence, and now that we are 100 years old, that year we would rob this moss,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u249	Let us briefly take a few comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u250	Mr President! It is certainly good to say a few words about this Sitra. It seems that our alternative budget has again been very successful in its structure, because it will happen the same as the previous time we announced our alternative budget: Government parties did not really come up with any criticisms other than that Sitra’s balance sheet is now being taken to work. I asked here why it could not be taken to work, because I remember the downtown opposition leader, Juha Sipilä, who spoke long enough that now the balance sheets to work, the balance sheets to work. Well, now that we're putting the balance sheets to work and taking Sitra's quite large balance sheet into half the productive investment — one-off revenue can be used for one-off expenditure — the centre does not want to use this lazy capital, even though it had to. She says she's putting the balance sheets to work. Our proposal is,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u251	Mr President! In response to my esteemed colleague, Mr Ala-Nissila: for the record, we are offering compensation for these kilometer payments. It is a review of the fact that the compensation always covers all the running costs of using the car, i.e. everything, but the cost of purchasing the car is only partially increased. At this year’s level, the compensation would be as follows: up to 10,000 kilometres 35 cents per kilometre and then 25 cents per kilometre. I wonder whether you are also opposed to granting entrepreneurs relief on the side costs of the first employee's salary and thereby allowing them to hire a new workforce. It is part of the green alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u252	Mr President! That is a good thing to hear that there are positive approaches to entrepreneurship, but as a whole your alternative budget is tightening the tax burden on companies, but hundreds of millions of them are being talked about — and yet all taxes are often spiraled around the prices of our export products. Representative Viitanen, when you say that one-off income is used for one-off expenses, then Sitra's capital has been taken. You will eat the capital of Sitra the year Finland turns 100. That is precisely what we need to promote Finland's future, innovation, research. Its capital return would be halved if half of its balance sheet were taken out and completely disabled. I find it — I use that word — impertinent, Mr President, but that is the only way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u253	We shall now proceed to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u254	Mr President! With Mr Viitanen here, I would now like to ask you to answer this question, which has been asked several times here, about the economic impact of the Ringe model. In your alternative budget, it is positive for that couple of hundred million, and again the parliamentary information service, which you have advertised hard, for example last autumn and since then, has calculated that it is costing the state 350 million. So your alternative budget will drop between 500 and 600 million with this information, but you will probably have better information than the parliamentary information service. But answer me this. As far as car tax is concerned, you are proposing to cancel the reduction in car tax. We have an additional budget in the Committee on Budgets, which will increase the revenue from this year's car tax by EUR 60 million. It is quite significant, and a significant part of it is due to the reduction in the car tax. The car trade works, it employs, it generates a wide range of taxes, but the share of car tax is also quite positive. So it's not necessarily wise to tax your lusts. There's been a lot of talk here about education. In the run-up to the elections, President Rinne called for a EUR 270 million cut in secondary education, that is, vocational education, and now you are proposing an increase of EUR 270 million — a rather incomprehensible inconsistency. In June 2015, when the Government Programme was discussed, Mr Rinne announced that the Social Democrats wanted a EUR 270 million cut in secondary education. Well, luckily, the government only cuts 190 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u259	Now we will continue with the list of speakers, and with the P button you can reserve the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u260	Mr President! Now it's a thing that we need to get our finances right. We'll get the cake we've been sharing, that's what I've been talking about many times. This green left side of comrade populism. The big picture is that... Let me give you an example, whether this is true or not, but it is a good illustration of what these are like. It is reported that in time Stalin went to Churchill and asked him how you could lead and rule such a great empire. Stalin said to the servant — a baby bird on the windowboard — that bring it here, take it in his hand, pluck all the hair out of it, and drop it at his feet. Do you know where he went? It's Stalin's leg. And he said, When all things are taken away from the people, they come into the arms of their takers. And this is what the green left does. It puts its hand in our pocket and eats on our bill. As far as this economic issue is concerned, now that the state is the financier of all these people, education, medical care and the public service, and the state is constantly impoverished on the public side — the debt that is being taken — is largely there — so of course it has to cut back on what it distributes when there is nothing to distribute. This is a simple arithmetic. It doesn't take a Greek calculator to fool people. If we do what we have done so far — in the last period, 70% of companies were already in the pits of departure, which I mentioned, that is, every time we leave Finland, there is a tax haven ahead of us, some representative has said so — this is the green left policy, and it has been bitten in a brilliant way. Last season there was a deficit of GDP of three years, and now it has gradually been raised. You have very good evidence. But this government has such grips as Biaudet said, what these men's grips are — they need those men's grips and not that green left-wing comrade populism. It will bite at the edge of the square when it tells you that you are now unemployed, I will arrange this. But in what way? The export industry has left us. And who invests in that socialism? It's not gonna do anything to that investor. That is exactly the same, Mr President, as if I and Mr Mölsä were going out there drinking, I am in debt. And the coat has not been translated by the Finns of Peru
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u265	Mr President! Although there is now a lot of comment about that previous speech by Mr Hakkarainen, I think it was good in the sense that when citizens listen to our speeches and we often use rather complicated terms, they find it terribly difficult to understand what this is all about. If we are talking about some stability mechanisms, it does not tell the ordinary person terribly, and I think it was good that Mr Hakkarainen opened it with such a good example. If it is a representative of Aalto's opinion of populism that explains things in the people's language, then maybe it is for you. But I will move on to my own speech, that is, these shadow budgets, which were presented today as an alternative budget, a few aspects. I myself wonder about the housing allowance and the increases that the SDP is making. It is well known that when housing allowance is increased, the rent level will also rise. So it's like a plus minus zero, and the only one who actually benefits from it is the landlord. Well, of course, it's a bit awkward now that VVO owns a lot of apartments and then distributes these dividends to ay stores. And unfortunately it is a fact that in the last elections, for example, the family Rinne received a total of approximately EUR 50,000 in election support from various trade unions, his spouse and himself. Yes, every ordinary person now understands that they are not petty money, EUR 50,000 is a huge amount of money. Many of us, with our own money, have done their election campaign, as we have done — and with pleasure, because then I can experience that I do not have to sing anyone's songs, I can work independently for people. I also wonder about talking about the right to day care and guaranteeing it to everyone. So everyone is currently entitled to 20 hours a week of this treatment plus a means test for all classes. There was talk of marginalised families. If there is a need for consideration, we have at least the Hyvinkää city, of which I am in the city council, gone through this very carefully. Because we limited it, but we do have such instructions in the city that if a family needs it, it will be judged at a very low threshold. Let us not start repeating these mistakes which have been the subject of speeches here. Representative Mäkipää made a good point about this entrepreneurial discount. There is talk of pharmacies — yes, but when we have other entrepreneurs in Finland than pharmacists, there are not quite so many pharmacies. According to the tax administration, we have some 176,000 traders, of whom 77% — i.e. almost 80% — have an annual taxable income of less than EUR 30000. Are you calling this support for the rich? They are self-employed, many of them people, I do not understand this at all. I don't understand this at all. I think that Mr Kankaanniemi made a very good point about the fact that the SDP would like to reduce car taxation, even though it is producing more for us at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u268	Mr President! I had written a speech, but I thought I'd try.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u271	Mr President! A more humane approach to decisions is a change called for by the Christian Democrats, which is why "A more humane Finland in 2017" is also the title of our alternative budget. What does that mean? Among other things, we should take better care of each other. We must not make the most vulnerable citizens pay for the harsh economic situation, and that is why one of our demands has been, and will continue to be, that the cuts, which affect the most vulnerable, should be withdrawn, including cuts to guarantee pensions, disability benefits, child allowances and so on. Many things have been raised this evening, but one of the fewer things that has been said is our wish and our desire for us as citizens to be healthier in the future. So it is time to start investing in the health and well-being of Finns, not just by correcting the problems that have already arisen, but by proactively strengthening health and well-being. Children, adolescents and adults are increasingly overweight. Oral health, among other things, has deteriorated and therefore it makes sense to implement this health-based sugar tax, including to encourage, to create opportunities for exercise, of course, in order to control lifestyle diseases. But then the workload of social welfare and health care, the judiciary and the police will be eased if alcohol consumption is controlled, and an increase in alcohol tax is therefore also justified. All in all, promoting health and well-being should be a starting point and a loophole in all decision-making. It would contribute not only to the well-being of young people and children but also to the well-being of adults and working-age people, but also to those effective workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u272	Mr President! Indeed, there is always reason to take a look at what has been said before the elections, and since we are now talking about alternative budgets, I have here dug up the alternative budget of the Finns of Peru, which they have made here in the light of this parliamentary term. The True Finns present, among other things, to vocational schools plus 15 million; now 190 are being cut. In order to reduce the group sizes of schools, the Finns of Peru are proposing an additional plus 30 million; now 30 million will be cut. In order to improve the services of the elderly, the Finns present an additional 25 million; now 70 million will be cut. And how could it be, even though I just heard a comment like this here that even this income from the Bank of Finland is wrong from the Social Democrats, the Finns of Finland would be here in their own choice to earn 100 million from the Bank of Finland — the SDP would earn 60 million, so that we are on the same track, albeit to a slightly more modest degree than the Finns of Finland are. Finally, these training cuts, when Mr Kankaanniemi felt so strongly that they were wise or at least something like that. If you don't believe the SDP now, at least believe the professors. According to the report referred to here, more than 90% of professors consider the government's university policy to be highly or totally unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u273	Mr President! Representative Viitanen was looking at the election programme for the Finns, and I also have a Social Democrats election programme published by President Rinne on 20 March 2015, a month before the election. The SDP proposed an adjustment of 4 billion, a billion with taxes and 3 billion with cuts. There is really nothing about them in this alternative budget that you then offered the people. What will you say to the EU Commission when the revenue side of your alternative budget is completely deceptive? There are a huge number of points that are not in any way realistic.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u274	Mr President! For Mr Kantola, I would like to continue a little bit, so that now that we have the result of the elections in the United States, it tells us something. Before that, they were drumming all the time how Clinton won — the polls were for it, the experts were there, the journalists had a pack of cockroaches jumping in it. Everyone thought this Clinton would win, but the people said something else. So here's what we have to learn. We have such a problem in these old parties that youth organisations raise young people in that policy, teach them to speak and do all the politics. No one has ever done the job, nor did they get the bread. You know how to talk about it. This is what I believe when people here, especially from the left side, can well say that if a telephone pole hits you like that and when you keep telling it, it kneels on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u279	Mr President! Well, I didn't get that answer. Mr Viitanen and Mrs Sanna Marin promised me a few months ago that this integration programme, which was published in the spring, 'from problems to solutions', 160 measures, will be found here when I, in my stupidity, went to ask it too early. Mr Viitanen, as I was walking here just now, I asked what page it is on when you say it will be found here. I am not getting an answer; Mr Viitanen is only looking in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u282	Mr President! I had already thought at this stage of the debate to end when I thought it would no longer be possible and to speak constructively, as our group president, Mr Lindtman, did at the end of the debate. So what we are talking about here is that we have an alternative, which in a democracy is up to the opposition to do, that is our right, and that is our duty. We've got a bunch of readings here. You'll have no trouble getting to know this one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u291	Mr President! The SDP has been in the government as long as I can remember, and this is the first time that you have been in the opposition for a long time now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u294	Mr President! Representative Elomaa, the Social Democrats were in the opposition during the parliamentary term 2007—last,after the election period of 2011—we were in the government,as well as the experience of the opposition...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u297	Mr President! I would like to thank all five opposition parties and their parliamentary groups who have made their alternative budgets. It's a tough job. I think I was the first to make an alternative budget in the group back then some 20 years ago, and since then it has been made every autumn. It's hard work and hard work because there's no information like the government has in the ministries. The problem with this has now been, as in the case of a year ago, the fact that, yesterday afternoon, at least the Social Democrats announced their alternative budget and then, today, at 14 p.m., this debate began. Last night we had a little look at the U.S. elections, Furthermore, Mr Viitanen, you are speaking quite wrongly about this debt issue. Remember now that the comparison is being made between all countries and within the EU and elsewhere in terms of public debt, and we now have a reduction in public debt during this government when it grew in your time and is at a very different rate. And you missed out on this model of the slope...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u298	Mr President! Now that this debate has been decided on public finances, I say that, according to Parliament's information service, the employment of 15,000 people through the employment voucher would balance public finances between EUR 140 and EUR 250 million. This will result in the multiplier effect of how much tax revenue will be added or how much unemployment security expenditure will be less and so away. These are the calculations, and I now hope that we will rely on these figures from Parliament's information service. In fact, I thought it was rather funny that the Prime Minister today said that the calculations of Parliament's information service would be populist. I understand that, of course, it is not up to the opposition party to be populist, as the Finns of Finland, for example, did not, of course, last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u301	Mr President! I will return to what Mr Kantola said about the appreciation of this work. I appreciate this job, it's not going anywhere, and I'm really trying to do what I've been given. But when it is so that if you have been given a spoon, you can't demand it. This is because if, for example, there are friends here at the sawmill — or in the industry that I know — I am quite sure that even though I go around with that guy twelve times, he still doesn't understand what has happened. I mean, it's the same thing when you get here. Now that we're teaching here... For example, it was terribly difficult for me to adapt to this — everyone could talk so well and so cleverly and in such a way that they didn’t really understand anything. So there is an opportunity, both in America and here, to grow outside its people, to become this elite who lives here and talks about their own things, of which the people, the common people, understand nothing at all. And that is certainly one problem, as Mr Kantola said. That is the real problem. Fortunately, I am so old that I do not learn the baton language and what is commonly used here. I speak with these own words, whether or not I judge them. Then there's the thing about it that when you come from there, a guy in his 50s who's been working his whole life, the media and everyone demanded the same thing as Kankaanniemi, Pekkaris, Kanerva. The same is required, even if there is not what to give, and then comes the stamp that the media gives. I'm sure it'll hit the stamp, and then you can carry it for every screw-up, every mistake in your step.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u302	Mr President! I would just like to say briefly to Mr Hakkarainen that I think it is primarily up to the representative, how well and how much time he spends with the people, for example, and how this institution and this place here affect us all. Yes, we know that there are many good politicians in Finland who have first studied for example as masters and then went straight to work in the shop and have worked in the parliament for years. One such representative is your party chairman, Timo Soini, who, in my opinion, has been working for the party for almost all his career, and here he is still working like us other representatives. I think we can stay on track from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u303	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u304	Mr President! I was not quite sure what this practice has been, whether it has been customary to present these legislative initiatives in this respect any more, but when I have the time to reserve that speech, perhaps just briefly, I would say that this is one of these cuts on universities, both at the University of Helsinki and at the University of Eastern Finland. In these major educational cuts, although this sum in itself is only over 31 million, this, of course, plays a major role in all of it, especially in the case of the University of Helsinki, which also accounts for a relatively large proportion of these university cuts in this way. With this proposal, we want to continue with the Green Parliamentary Group's own alternative budget to reject any cuts in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u305	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u306	Mr President! In the legislative initiative I have taken, a green alternative budget is being implemented to improve the state economy. The measure is widely recommended by economists and, to some extent, I am pleased to say it is something that the government has also undertaken with some but not enough enthusiasm. The bill proposes that the reduction in the interest rate on housing debt be completely waived during the parliamentary term. There are many arguments for this, I will list a couple quickly: First of all, I think it is important that tenants and owner-occupied residents should be treated fairly from the tax point of view, i.e. in the same way. Secondly, usually a good guiding principle in the design of the tax system is to keep it as simple as possible in terms of tax objectives. Excessive support for owner-occupied housing is the wrong objective, so simplification here would be appropriate. The right to deduct interest has been gradually reduced since the last parliamentary term, and 45 per cent of the interest on housing debt will be deductible next year. According to the Parliamentary Information Service, reducing the interest rate reduction to 30% next year would increase tax revenues by EUR 24 million. I therefore think that tightening this rate would be appropriate, so 2017 would be 30% and 2018 could be 15%, and then 2019 could remove the whole exemption from the law. Indeed, the government is moving slower here and will not be able to finish this job during this parliamentary term. By tightening the pace in removing the interest rate reduction on housing debt, we could have a little more room for manoeuvre and, for example, we could avoid some of the cuts in education or research. I believe that this would be a responsible and supportive choice for economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u307	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u308	Mr President! Politics is curious that sometimes some things that have been on the table for a very long time and that have been talked about a lot and have been presented by different models — as the Greens have been working on this idea for twenty years on basic income — may move forward when they are not even in government responsibility, as in this case when the Government has decided to take a basic income test. Of course, we are very pleased that this idea we have put forward has now received such broad support that even when we are not in the government itself, it is being tried out. But there is a concern in this experiment that we would like this experiment to be done properly so that we can genuinely see the effects of basic income. We know that working life has become increasingly fragmented. We know that our social security system is very complex and provides a wide range of incentive traps, and in order to reconcile all this, basic income could be an ideal solution. Now, however, only the recipients of labour market support will be included in this government experiment, and the elements that are being pursued by basic income will be left out in a way. This is, in fact, just this sort of red tape-removal experiment for these labour market support people, and this is missing and this will not show the dynamic effects that we would get with the kind of basic income that would target a wider number of people. That is why we have proposed that more people should be involved in this and that the experiment should also be extended for a year longer than the government proposes. And now we are proposing additional funding of EUR 10 million per year, so this two-year experiment would be extended to three years, including low-income employees, low-income entrepreneurs, freelancers, self-employed workers. It would also be extremely important for this experiment, which is now missing the tax element, to be added. Now, in this government experiment, the idea is that if any additional earnings were collected on this basic income, there would be no taxation, and that means that the cost of the experiment will be enormously expensive and that it will not tell the truth that the basic income is being sought. It would therefore be very important to restore the tax collected in the experiment to this pilot budget. The system that will then be tested would be more like real basic income and would also show what its price is and then it would be genuinely possible to assess whether it would be feasible from an economic point of view as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u309	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u310	Mr President! The emergence of entrepreneurial-based work is one of the major trends in the future of working life. There are currently over 180,000 self-employed people in Finland, and the number is increasing. The paths to self-employment are diverse. For many, the attraction of self-employment lies in the freedom to decide independently on their own work and how to organise it, how to work, how to work and where to work. However, the phenomenon also has its drawbacks. In many sectors, there is also a widespread phenomenon in which the risk is outsourced from employees to those employed with the status of an entrepreneur. In a comprehensive survey conducted in 2014, Statistics Finland outlined the position of various self-employed persons. The vast majority of self-employed people are satisfied with working without a paid employment relationship. However, about one-fifth of self-employed persons are those famous forced entrepreneurs, i.e. people who prefer paid employment. In the media and culture sector in particular, work is done with freelancers. Employers will survive without employers’ obligations, and freelancers themselves will be responsible for both the pricing of their work and their own pension insurance. More than half of the professionals in the cultural sector report that they have become self-employed because there has been no paid work available and entrepreneurship has provided a way to find employment. Also among self-employed persons are those who have been outsourced to self-employed persons whose former employer has announced that he would like to buy pre-paid work as an entrepreneurial job in the future. This is particularly common in the construction, transport and industry sectors. At the same time, this is a way for the employer to afford work when responsibility for the cost of the employer’s obligations is transferred to the worker. Often, however, the content of the work is the same as that of the employer’s own employees. Since self-employed persons are a diverse group, a number of measures are needed to improve the position of self-employed persons. The main drawbacks are underprivatisation of work and shortcomings in social and pension security. This autumn, the Left Alliance has published a comprehensive set of measures to improve the position of self-employed. We want to make it possible to organise collectively according to the Danish model. We want to raise the threshold for value added tax, introduce combined insurance, the system of advance decisions on unemployment security and extend the protection rate of EUR 300 for unemployment benefit to entrepreneurs as well. But there is one group of self-employed people whose status can be improved by means of the legislative amendment here presented. This bill provides for the extension of the Employment Contracts Act in order to extend its scope to self-employed workers who are in a position to be treated as employees. Then who are they? They are self-employed or self-employed, who work as employees but without the security of the employment relationship and a certain level of pay. They can be, for example, only a seller selling cleaning work for one big customer, a freelancer constantly writing stuff for the same media house, or a food delivery driver on a contract for the same subscriber. In a bill, a self-employed person treated as an employee refers to a person who, by virtue of his status, is comparable to an employee and who has only a few clients and low financial and commercial risks and whose content of the work corresponds to the content of the work of the employees of the sponsor undertaking. All these conditions must be met. It is, therefore, precisely the situations in which the employer consciously seeks to avoid the employer's responsibilities and to hold back work by outsourcing risks. In the initiative, a single employer also refers to a larger group of companies, for example in the media sector, represented by all companies owned by the same group, such as Alma Media or Western Media. This would apply the same Community concept as the provisions of the Employment Contracts Act on the obligation of the employer to provide work. For the purposes of this provision, employers belonging to the Community shall mean those who effectively exercise control over personnel matters in another undertaking or in the Community on the basis of ownership, contract or other arrangements. In the opinion of the Left Alliance's Parliamentary Group, the resolution of the problem requires a reassessment of the characteristics of employment in such a way that self-employed persons who are comparable to employees are subject to labour law. In this case, they would be entitled to occupational health care, annual leave, unemployment benefit and so on, in the same way as an employed person. They would also have the right to conclude collective agreements. Mr President! There has been a lot of talk about the status of self-employed people in Finland and for a long time. A number of studies have been carried out and a number of working groups have considered this, but very minor changes have been made. It is high time that concrete measures were taken. In addition to changes in unemployment security and pension provision, mechanisms related to the pricing of work should be addressed. For self-employed self-employed workers who are self-employed in the form of entrepreneurs, the possibility of collective organisation would be a key means of tackling under-pricing work. In the case of self-employed persons comparable to employees, this is best done by extending the characteristics of the Employment Contracts Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u311	The 35th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u312	Mr President! The taxation of capital income remains at a significantly lower level than the taxation of equal wages. In order to reduce the gap and to break the trend in government debt, a new, higher payment category should be set for capital income taxes. Based on the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, an increase of 2 percentage points in the capital income tax, i.e. a tax of 36%, would generate an additional EUR 52 million per year in tax revenues for the State. Such a new category of payments would reduce income disparities in a fair way by bringing high incomes into the cost of a prolonged economic recession with a larger share than before. I propose that one new step be added to the capital income so that, as capital income exceeds EUR 70000, the tax would rise to 36 per cent. As a result of the increase, the Income Tax Act and, to a limited extent, the Tax Act on the taxable person’s income become subject to change. This proposal is included in the alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliament Group for 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u313	The 36th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u314	Mr President! We propose that the guardians of a minor child who is studying should receive a EUR 200 guardian's allowance for the study grant months. The guardian allowance is paid to each student who is a child's guardian and who raises the student's allowance. If both parents are students, they will both receive a guardian’s allowance. In addition, we suggest that when calculating the amount of student's student's study grant, the income of his or her parents is not taken into account if the student is entitled to the study grant's guardian allowance. The guardian allowance would be provided for in the previously repealed Section 13 of Chapter 2 of the Student Aid Act. In addition, amendments to Articles 11(1) and (2) of Chapter 2 of the Student Aid Act and Article 19(2) of Chapter 2 of the Student Aid Act would be made in the interest of the guardian allowance. The estimated cost at the annual level is EUR 20 million, but the overall impact of the guardian allowance can be expected to have a positive impact on both the national economy and the sustainability gap. According to Kela's statistics on student benefit, in the academic year 2014-2015 there were 10755 persons who received student financial aid and were under maintenance; in total, the number of students receiving student benefit was 288057. According to the Family Barometer of the Family Federation of Population, the average number of children today is 1.65 per woman, whereas it was nearly 1.9 years ago. The average age of first births has risen year by year, which partly explains that the number of children that families want will not be realized. The average age of the first child is now 28.5 years. Trained women living in the capital region receive their first child at the age of 34 on average, i.e. about ten years after the most fertile age. As a result of the rising middle age of first-born infants, the risks of childbirth and involuntary infertility also increase. The combination of study and family has been made very difficult in Finland and very challenging economically. The objective of the bill is to support families who are studying and thus enable them to start a family during their studies. The aim is also to facilitate the transition of young women to work after studies, i.e. to improve equality in working life. Studying families often live below the poverty line; they are the poorest of the poor. Even if all student loans were raised, the income level would be very low. The combination of study and family life must be made possible by adding a guardian's allowance to the study grant. This proposal is also included in the alternative budget of the Group of the Christian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u315	The 37th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-09-ps-111.u316	Mr President! According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, over-use of alcohol is one of the key health threats of Finnish society. Extensive use of alcohol increases morbidity and exacerbates the symptoms of many diseases. Alcohol related causes of death have been the most common cause of death among working-age people in recent years. The additional cost of alcohol-related harm to public finances is several billion euros a year. The amount of alcohol-related harm is directly related to the total consumption of alcohol. In August 2013, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health published a memorandum on the basis of which a new alcohol law was being prepared. According to the memo, the best way to control alcohol consumption is to interfere with the availability of alcohol. A gradual increase in the alcohol tax was also a key measure to reduce alcohol harm. Previous tax increases have shown that the increase in prices has a clear impact on total alcohol consumption. The reduction in the alcohol tax in 2004 resulted in a strong increase in consumption and, for example, an increase in alcohol deaths. Total consumption remains at a higher level than before 2004. Alcohol consumption entails significant costs for society. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health estimates that the direct costs to society are around EUR 1 billion. The harmful costs covered by social care accounted for about half of the harmful costs of alcohol in the public sector, the maintenance of public order and safety covered almost 40 per cent, and health care accounted for about 10 per cent. In addition, the police estimate that alcohol has an impact in 70% of cases where the police employ them. In view of the loss of production at work and other disadvantages, the costs are multiple. The cost of many lost lives or of the suffering of children who are left to fear domestic violence cannot even be measured with money. The alcohol tax must be set at a level that curbs alcohol consumption and that the proceeds of the tax are reasonable in relation to the cost to society of alcohol consumption. We propose an amendment to the annex to the Act on the taxation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages so that, when the current alcohol tax on beer is between EUR 0.50 and EUR 0.59 per can of 33 cents, this tax would change from EUR 0.63 to EUR 0.73 depending on the strength of the beer. And now that the tax on beer is 32.05 centimetres per centimeter of ethyl alcohol, this tax would rise to 40 centimetres per centimetre of ethyl alcohol. And just as the tax on alcoholic beverages produced by fermentation today is more than 2.8% but not more than 5.5 percent, that tax would increase to 241 cents per litre of prepared alcoholic beverages. The increase in the excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages would amount to a total of EUR 200 million. The Act on higher taxes on alcohol and alcoholic beverages is also included in the alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliament Group.
