ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u2	Mr President! The life of Nokian Markku Mallat ended in a homicide in 1996. The police were investigating the case as a homicide. However, a decisive breakthrough was not achieved in the 1990s. The matter was re-examined for further clarification in 2013. The trial will expire in 20 years, so there was still a chance to try. The investigation was continued until the last day. At the beginning of April this year the work was discontinued. The court has expired on the charge of murder. The law protected the killer. It does not fit into the Finnish sense of justice. This must be a huge disappointment to the family, but also to the police. It also caused legitimate confusion among the citizens. The killer is free, and there's no evidence to change the matter. The bill Lex Mallat is short and succinct. This amendment is proposed in Chapter 8, Section 1 of the Penal Code, which would add a new article. It reads as follows: "However, the Court of Justice has not become This change would not entail any additional cost for the State. However, it would send a clear message to criminal circles: the police will be after you for the rest of your life. That is already the case with murder. In the future, a change of law would allow the police to solve the killing even after 25 years, while the loved ones would have hope and, at best, spiritual peace. In Sweden, too, the legislation has been amended in such a way that the right to prosecute murder or to kill does not become obsolete. It had something to do with the Palme case. The methods of technical investigation have evolved in recent decades, and it is impossible even to predict future methods. The law should follow or even anticipate future changes. Lex Mallat does not propose any changes to the penalty scales or other types of criminal limitation, such as the right to enforce the sentence. There is, of course, nothing to prevent the Committee on Legal Affairs, if it so wishes, from considering the limitation periods for the prosecutions of other offences. Mr President! The media brought up the Mallat case. The message was sent to the Parliament. It was our turn to act. The initiative was signed by 162 representatives. That is the highest number since 2005. Thank you to all those who took part in the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u3	Mr President! This bill is such that I have also signed it myself, and I think it is important. Thank you, Mr Kiuru, for taking such an initiative. In relation to murder, which currently has no statute of limitations, both in the case of murder and murder, both, this is a crime against the spirit. Regardless of the title of the crime, the public order must protect people’s lives sufficiently effectively, whether it is a matter of killing or murder. The initiative highlights the fact that, with the development of technology, many of the things that have not been resolved in the past can be resolved by modern technology, and therefore the right to prosecute the killing should not become obsolete. Mr President! In such cases, where a person loses his life and dies as a victim of crime, the fact that the case can never be resolved is a tragedy for the rest of his life for those of his or her family who have to live with it. Instead — we’ve been talking here about robbers, but now we’re talking about killers — he waits somewhere else and quite laughs at the crime and what he’s done but never gets caught: looks like a long nose to the people who stay here and wonder where the person who committed this crime to their loved one is. For that reason too, this issue should be dealt with, and it would be desirable that it should also be brought to a conclusion, for we really need to think about the people who wonder why this crime was committed against their own loved ones and whether they will never be prosecuted for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u4	Congressman Heinonen. — At the same time, I would like to point out that I do not give replies to such a debate, which has about 25 minutes, and in which many of you have specifically asked for the floor. I respect the fact that the representative is prepared to take the floor in advance, and this short time will be spent on these speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a good way to do this. — I would like to give my full support not only to my signature but also to Mr Kiuru's legislative initiative. It has been signed by 162 MPs in this Parliament, which is the largest number of MPs in more than ten years. The trial for murder will not expire today, but the killing will expire in 20 years. As Mr Kiuru raised this one case, there was a solution, at least according to the media, that was applied for until the very last days and the crime was not solved. Was it murder or murder, it is certainly also a question that one should be able to consider. In some circumstances, scientists have decided to investigate a crime as a homicide. I myself am a layman on these issues, but I have wondered whether a case that has been a homicide in the investigation could at some point become a murder investigation as its investigation progresses. In my view, this bill will then also be quite justified. For example, 19 years from now, there could be information that this has been based on planning, such as correspondence or something else, and that would not have already filled out the signs of murder and the police would have investigated the crime in the wrong way. With Mr Puumala, during the last parliamentary term, we took another bill which is slightly related to him. You see, gross sexual abuse of a child is like a murder that survives. This bill, too, was signed by more than 100 Members of Parliament at the time, but for some reason it has not progressed — it has not progressed in Parliament, it has not progressed in the Ministry of Justice — and I have renewed it during this parliamentary term, by this representative, Mr Puumala and myself, in the last term, that the gross exploitation of a child would also be a crime of longer duration, for it is now becoming obsolete in practice when the victim turns 28 years old, and even if the evidence problems could be obvious, as in many other crimes, if they go this far, then we have cases that would have been right and fair to trial, in some cases even from the point of view of the perpetrator. Mr President! I would like to give my full support to Mr Kiuru's bill and to the fact that he has seen a great deal of work to collect 161 signatures for this in addition to himself. I hope that this bill, as well as the bill on the aging of the child's gross exploitation, will proceed this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u6	Mr President! This bill, which Mr Kiuru has tabled, is of great importance in all its simplicity and has also been signed by the entire Christian parliamentary group, which also contributes to its weight. The prosecution of a manslaughter must not expire. Modern methods ensure that crimes can be investigated even after a very long period of time and it is good that the legislation is updated to reflect modern technology. This bill is also an important signal to criminal circles that crimes will be investigated even after decades, when they can be held accountable for their actions. The very good thing about the proposal is that it proposes to completely abolish obsolescence, because in this way all time constraints, both in terms of investigation and in terms of moving the matter forward, and the police can do their own investigative work in peace. When this comes to the Committee on Legal Affairs in due course, I hope that this will also be channelled into real law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u7	Mr President! A person can lose his life in many ways, either naturally or through crime. Depending on the nature, brutality and design of the crime, the character of the crime is filled by many acts. The most systematic and most brutal act of all is the act that fills the mark of murder. The prosecution of murder will never expire. Killing is equally a deliberate act, resulting in the loss of one person’s life. The prosecution of a manslaughter will expire in 20 years. A person found guilty of an act after the court's aging can no longer be sued. The current law has not been adopted by researchers with their DNA comparisons and dental charts. The possibilities for the police to investigate criminal offences have increased with the introduction of new technologies. These new techniques can be used to solve very old homicides if, for example, DNA of the perpetrator has been recorded at the scene of the crime. The victim's identity can also be traced through the dental chart. There are many examples of this in dealing with old and widespread war crimes. That is why many of the so - called dark crimes are now solved. It is extremely regrettable if the identity of the person responsible for the killing is discovered, but he cannot be held responsible for his actions because of the aging of the right to prosecute. It is worth acknowledging that our obsolete legislation has been pushed by sophisticated investigative methods. That is why it is also very justified to reform our obsolete legislation in this regard and to amend the law so as to abolish the deadline for the prosecution of the killing. Mr President! I very much welcome and support the draft law in the referral debate, and I have also signed it myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u8	Mr President! This issue started with the killing of a municipal politician in Nokia, and it is good that this has now spread to a wider context. This debate already shows that there is a clear need for this: situations can change. However, it is a crime so serious that it is actually amazing that we have such a system that this can become obsolete. In fact, I would just like to thank Mr Kiuru, who has been the first to move on this issue. A very large number of people from this Chamber have already signed this initiative. I hope that this initiative will be properly dealt with, and I hope that it will also go through committee work and that it will become a law for us later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u9	Mr President! I was happy to sign — if I can say so in this connection — a bill by Mr Kiuru to amend Chapter 8, Section 1 of the Penal Code. My point of view is that in the case of homicides where the perpetrator or perpetrators are unknown and, as in the case in which Mr Kiuru took his initiative, the perpetrator is still unknown, an assessment of whether a homicide is a homicide or murder is a challenge solely on the basis of other circumstances. I very much welcome this bill, and in addition to Mr Kiuru, I would also like to thank Inspector Jari Kinnus of Tampere, who has shown what the Finnish police are doing at best: he is constantly investigating matters to the very last.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u10	Mr President! I too have signed up to this initiative, and I consider the proposal to be highly justified. As has been revealed many times here, on the one hand, technical methods are constantly evolving and, on the other hand, crimes of an increasing age can be solved and, on the other hand, they can be brought up in another case. And if it turns out in that case that a person is known to have committed such a crime but cannot be prosecuted for this time limit, it would be extremely regrettable, and yet it is such a serious crime that it should not become old. Of course, it is true that even if the charge can be brought and convicted later on, the killing will not be brought back, but it is extremely important for the family that it is concluded and that it does not expire because of the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u11	Mr President! I myself have been a detective and investigator for over a decade, twenty years, and I know from experience the importance of this issue. I myself have signed this bill. Representative Heinonen gave a good consideration to these priorities as to whether to investigate murder or murder. The Kiuru initiative is very good and sensible and reflects the citizens' sense of justice, at least as much as I understand about these matters. I thank Mr Kiuru and I am surprised that it has taken so long for this kind of initiative to be made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u12	Mr President! A little over 20 years ago, we Pirkanmaa Greens were shocked when a Nokian green city councilman and youth counselor Markku Mallat were found dead. I would therefore like to thank Mr Kiuru for having taken this initiative and for putting together such a large number of parliamentarians behind that initiative. After all, the rate of solving homicides in Finland is very high, and in most years it is well over 90 per cent. It is something we Finns can be very proud of. Even in cases where, at the time of the crime being reported, there is no prior knowledge of the perpetrator, i.e. in the case of so-called 'black crimes', the clearing-up rate is about two thirds. The number of cases not resolved for more than 20 years is not very high. Colleagues have already said that, in the context of the investigation of other crimes, the development of new methods may lead to situations which will enable us to find out. I agree with these arguments, and I would simply like to add that, in the United States, for example, new technologies have been able to resolve years and decades later also innocence: it has been possible to establish innocence for a convicted person who has been in prison for a long time and then to release him. Indeed, these cases, which are the subject of this bill,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u13	Mr President! Yes, in the rule of law, sanctions and penalties must always be in line with the act, whether the crime survives early or late. It is very important that progress be made in these matters, also according to the fact that the act must always be punished, as is the case with the sexual exploitation of children and rapes. Here, too, we should have sanctions and equivalences to the level required for that action. When we talk about this day and we know that technology is evolving all the time, the world is changing all the time, we keep moving forward, we find new ways, new ways, new ways of solving crime, too, the question arises as to why these things are being developed, why they are even being done if they cannot be used. There must also be the possibility in the rule of law that, when technology develops, technology will also be introduced in the investigation of criminal offences, and also in the case of appropriate sanctions and appropriate penalties for the people to whom the punishment is due. Of course, the worst crime is to take a life from another, and it is worth punishing, but if a person is taken away from a soul, it too is a truly incriminating crime. And the soul is taken away then, the soul is broken when the child is abused or gang rapes women or even rapes individually. Violence, and especially violence within the family, is also something that we must at some point dare to raise and also look at sanctions and look at where the matter should be taken seriously and not just to assume that it is now being negotiated and negotiated. If it does not improve, then we must put the cat on the table, so to speak, and bring the matter to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u14	Mr President! Congressman Hongisto here said there are many ways to lose his life. I say you can only lose your life once. I think that is a good indication of the seriousness of the crime involved in killing. Of course, we know that, in a situation such as this, when there are disturbing crimes that cause public debate, so-called public opinion can make very tough demands, too harsh demands, and, of course, the legislator cannot, on the basis of individual cases, go back and forth in criminal policy. On the other hand, very much and very long there cannot be a situation where the public's general sense of justice and, on the other hand, general legislation, criminal law, do not match. I believe that a very good argument has been put forward here in favour of this initiative. This was done, among other things, by representatives Heinonen and Hassi. Mr. Speaker! To be honest, I do not remember whether my own name is involved in this initiative, but I seriously believe that this initiative should be taken very seriously by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, to be very serious and, if necessary, to be open-minded about amending the legislation in accordance with this initiative, unless some really good and completely lasting arguments against it can be put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u15	After Mr Hoskonen, who signed the initiative, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u16	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kiuru as much as I can for an excellent legislative initiative. Indeed, getting this kill as a crime that does not grow old is an excellent thing. Here I hope that Parliament, and the Committee on Legal Affairs in particular, will take a firm stance and that this law will be changed to reflect today. Indeed, forensic engineering in criminal investigations — DNA technology, all possible techniques — has developed dramatically in the last decades. The world that was at the time when this criminal law was enacted so that the killing will expire in 20 years must have changed a lot to this day, and many things have been clarified precisely through DNA technology. It must be remembered that these investigative techniques are developing at a ferocious pace with the development of all other technologies. That is why Mr Kiuru's excellent bill will hopefully be adopted and this law will be amended to reflect today's time. It is not an awkward thing if Parliament changes the laws that it has passed itself. That is the task of this House: to update the legislation. And in this particular case, in which a person has lost his life as a result of a crime, it is only right that this should always be investigated as far as possible and specifically by new technology. I hope that the law will be passed and enforced as soon as possible, and precisely so that such crimes as Mr Kiuru mentioned in the bill can be resolved even if a little more time has passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u17	We have three minutes, three requests for the floor. Please, one minute per person. We could finish this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u18	Mr President! Mr Kiuru's bill is also signed by me, and I thank Mr Kiuru for bringing this issue up so quickly, and I would also like to thank all the representatives who have gone along with it. Mr Hassi said that at that time this shocked the Nokians and the Pirkans — it is true. But it also shocked me in the spring when it was reported that this is the way the law requires. Yes, there was an incomprehensible debate about how Finland could have such a flaw in the law. I now hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights will focus on this with due diligence, seriousness and that this is actually being corrected, so that we can also have the kill, as Mr Kiuru has very well pointed out in his presentation, that it does not get old. This is an extremely important matter, and although there are not many of these cases, when we consider the people that this touches, the close, friends, acquaintances, relatives, this affects a very large part of the nation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u19	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mr Kiuru for this commendable bill, which, if it were implemented, would therefore prevent the death penalty from becoming obsolete and is a matter of great importance from a principle point of view. As has been said here, the initiative has been signed by a very significant number of parliamentarians, so I believe and hope that the committee will indeed deal with this bill with the greatest seriousness, as Mr Hakanen has also pointed out above. In the past, many representatives have also stated that, in some cases, even by accident or by chance, in the investigation of other suspects in criminal matters, there may be new leads to a long-term killing, so this initiative is also very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-13-ps-52.u20	Mr President! The initiative is along the lines of the spirit of the Government Programme, but it is all the more important that it unites all Members of Parliament across party boundaries, and it seems from the speeches that have been made that all the speeches were sympathetic. The initiative is in accordance with the will of the representatives, it is in accordance with the sense of justice. As Mr Hassi said, it is perhaps more a matter of principle: there will be a negligible number of unresolved cases. Sometimes principles are dangerous. In this case, I believe that the principle of catching the guilty is an important principle on such a serious issue as killing, and I hope that this is the way forward. — — — — Thank you.
