ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-71.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 12/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-71.u2	Mr President! A draft law has been discussed in committee on a very short time. A proposal was sent to committee just over a week ago to limit the right of municipalities and joint municipal authorities to make significant investments in the field of social welfare and health care. In addition, large-scale and long-term contracts with a private service provider, i.e. in practice outsourcing contracts, must include the condition of termination. The purpose of the legislation is to ensure the capacity of the self-government regions created by the social welfare reform decided by the government to organise equal services as cost-effectively as possible throughout their territory. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that the proposed regulation would not become problematic for local self-government in terms of time-framed, proportionate and limited to an acceptable objective. Nor was regulation considered problematic from the point of view of asset protection. According to the opinion, these restrictions are based on an objective acceptable to fundamental rights and, given the limited nature of the restrictions, they can also be considered proportionate. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the proposed restrictions to be necessary for the objectives of the restructuring of social welfare and health care and supports the adoption of the bill as amended so that the objectives of the government proposal can be achieved as well as possible. The Committee considers it important that the proposed restrictions should only be aimed at preventing legal acts which can be considered to be detrimental to the functioning of future social and health care providers and which will not be necessary before the forthcoming reform of the social welfare and health services structure. It is therefore still possible to take appropriate legal action in the context of the overall restructuring of social welfare and health care during the period of validity of the restrictions. Mr President! A little more specific on the content of the restrictions. According to Article 4 of the draft Act, a municipality or a joint municipal authority may not undertake investments in social welfare and health care buildings if their total non-taxable costs exceed EUR 5 million. However, according to the proposed paragraph 2, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has the power to grant an exemption for more extensive investment commitments. The granting of an exemption requires that the investment is justified in order to ensure the availability of services and that the investment is necessary for the service structure of the region. In addition to their own projects, local authorities and joint municipal authorities are carrying out long-term investments by means of various leasing and rental arrangements. The duration of these contracts is long because they cover the long-term costs of building investments. The costs of contracts will be covered in the future as part of the operating costs. Such agreements also have the same problems as the construction projects directly owned by municipalities and hospital districts described above. The committee proposes to amend Article 4 in such a way as to require an exemption for these investments, too, if their value exceeds EUR 5 million. Large-scale and long-term outsourcing contracts with a private service provider, as well as long-term rental or other concessions for buildings and premises, shall include a termination clause which entitles the new organiser of social services to terminate the contract during 2019. This provision applies to contracts concluded after the entry into force of the proposed law and in force after 2018, as well as contracts previously drawn up in the event that they are substantially amended during the period in question. The committee considers that the condition of dismissal must ensure that those responsible for organising social welfare and health care are able to organise their activities in a manner that is determined by the government. The opportunities to organise services in an integrated way in larger areas and in an equal way for residents will be significantly more difficult if old contractual obligations are transferred to new organisers through the solutions of the social welfare reform. According to the proposal, the termination condition must be included in contracts with a private service provider whose estimated annual value during the contract period would exceed 50 % for the social and health care sector under the responsibility of the municipality or joint municipal authority in question, of the annual operating expenses in accordance with the most recent financial statements and the contract is valid for at least 5 years. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it important that the law also restricts contractual arrangements which purchase services from the same private service provider through several contracts, none of which alone fulfils the 50 % mentioned. The splitting of contracts could avoid the inclusion of a condition of termination in the contract, and the committee therefore proposes that a provision be added to the draft law, under which all contracts concluded with the same party during the period of validity of the law, the value of which exceeds the limit laid down in the law, must be included in the contract of termination. According to the Government's proposal, before the termination of the contract, the person in charge of organising the future social services should negotiate with the contractor and receive a favourable opinion from the National Institute for Health and Welfare. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health does not consider that the opinion of the THL is necessary to assess the appropriateness of dismissal. The committee believes that the organisation body should have the right to decide independently whether to maintain or terminate the contract for services or use of real estate concluded during the period of validity of the law. The committee proposes that the dismissal procedure be simplified in such a way that the future service provider is not obliged to request the opinion of the THL on the termination of the contract. The sole procedural requirement remains the obligation to negotiate with the contracting party before the termination of the contract. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the proposed regulation restricting the right of municipalities and joint municipal authorities to take legal action is quite exceptional and its smooth implementation requires the Ministry to provide municipalities and joint municipal authorities with clear and comprehensive implementing instructions for different situations. In its opinion, the Administrative Committee has drawn attention to the urgent timetable for the government's proposal. However, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it important for the objectives of the proposed law to be brought to an early conclusion and to bring the law into force on an urgent basis. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it important that the effects of the draft law are closely monitored and that any possible shortcomings are addressed without delay if the law presents problems with respect to the implementation of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 6 and 19 of the Constitution or if the law proves otherwise to be ineffective or if further preparation for the reform of the law would otherwise give rise to a reassessment of the law. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with the request made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Close monitoring is necessary, in particular due to the exceptional nature of the legislation. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health decided unanimously and proposed the adoption of the law.
