ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u1	The 2nd item in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of Government policy in 2016 and the main proposals to Parliament. The Prime Minister's announcement will be followed by a debate on the opening of the Parliament. After the Prime Minister's presentation, one round of group talks will take place with a maximum of 5 minutes. Then, in accordance with section 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, I shall issue replies of up to 2 minutes in the order I am considering, which will be reserved there. Mr Sipilä will begin the debate, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I'm sure we've all heard a story about a frog being put in hot water. The frog does not notice the boiling of the water in the hot water until it is too late. But if a frog is thrown into boiling water, it jumps out immediately. This also describes the situation in Finland quite well. We are extremely good in a sudden crisis, but we are not good in a situation such as this. Finland is still at the forefront of several indicators, including international comparisons. At the same time, however, the financial base of our welfare society is deteriorating. We need a significant increase in performance in all sectors of society so that we can continue to finance services of the same kind in an ageing society. We Finns will be able to do that when we find a common will mode. The Government’s plan to remedy this situation is to balance public finances, to undertake major structural reforms and to create the conditions for economic growth and employment. We don't get off easy, but we don't get off easy either. I do not think that the current situation gives the right picture of us Finns. We can do better than that. The Government's objective is to improve employment by 110,000 people during this parliamentary term. Living in debt ends in 2021. Employment of the unemployed must be the driver of decisions. In order to achieve these objectives, the conditions for economic growth need to be strengthened on many fronts. The conditions for entrepreneurship will be improved, for example by: The financial position of growth enterprises will be improved by strengthening the financial position of Finnvera and Tes, for example. Authorisation and complaint processes will be accelerated. The reporting and information obligations of SMEs will be reduced. The competition will be increased. The Team Finland concept has introduced a one-stop shop service, and the international network has been strengthened since the beginning of this year. The loss of the income source is deducted from other income sources at the beginning of 2017. For forms of enterprise other than limited companies, a 5 per cent entrepreneurial deduction will be made from the beginning of 2017. Next year, small enterprises will be able to account for payment-based VAT. The threshold for employment is lowered by a legislative package extending the probationary period, reducing the readmission obligation and streamlining the conditions for fixed-term contracts. The package will come to Parliament in spring and enter into force next summer. Local agreement must take an important step. At the same time, the role of personnel in the decision-making of the company must be strengthened. The working group is due to complete its work by mid-March. Finland also needs a significant leap in cost competitiveness. That is what the social partners are trying to achieve. They've got the ball now. Domestic and foreign expert assessments have supported the planning and timing of government adjustment measures. We are fully committed in the spring spending limits debate to adhere to the adjustment of 4 billion in 2019 as agreed in the Government Programme. This government will not increase the overall tax rate. At the beginning of this year, the taxation of people with low and middle incomes was reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u5	Mr President! That was a good speech. It was a good illustration of our challenge, but also of the way the government approaches our problems. In many respects we are in the same situation as last spring, when the government began its work, and we can ask whether something has changed since then. There are the same broad principles of reform: greater competitiveness is needed in order to improve employment, better management of public finances and diversification of society. All these same headlines still exist. With regard to competitiveness, first of all, there was a lot of good debate in this House last autumn about the importance of this domestic demand, but it must be borne in mind all the time that the export-driven economy does not, however, have the opportunity or the ability to lift itself up from the hair, but that genuine competitiveness is needed, and that is where the negotiations now taking place between the organisations are extremely important. The Centre Party's parliamentary group welcomes the constructive approach that employees' organisations have also had in public appearances this year. Last autumn, this political wing of the labour movement was quite aggressive in its sayings, but I believe that in this respect, moderation in the face of the seriousness of things is now common to all. As far as public finances are concerned, both the OECD and our own evaluation councils gave the impression that the basic impetus of the government is correctly set, that the scale of savings is correct and that the main measures are in place, and that is a credible path to continue. We need credibility to be redeemed, even though at the same time we are sensitive to all the concerns that exist among the citizens when public finances also need to be saved and cut back. Of course, in the case of reforms, the huge reform of the social and health services is by far the most important. It has already taken a significant number of concrete decisions and steps, but it is one of the biggest internal reforms of our time. At the same time — one might say that I felt a little breathless when listening to the Prime Minister's list of what else needs to be done — we need to dismantle bureaucracy, reform structures, facilitate employment and so on. Gradually, results are also beginning to show. One important thing is that this understanding of what digitalisation can bring us at best has gone through the structure of this society and administration in a certain way deeply, and I believe that Parliament is prepared to create all the legal conditions required to promote this. Similarly, in the case of renewable energy, clear progress has been made with infrastructure solutions. The solutions have a significant impact, including a revitalizing effect. But has something changed since last spring? I have to say that yes has changed, this situation may be even more challenging and difficult. Our security environment in our nearest environment — it can be said that the world is breaking down around us. It also has its own reflection on our economic environment. It is not in the view that we can obtain external financial assistance, but that we must act and achieve results ourselves. And the difficulty of the asylum seeker issue, which everyone is aware of, also in terms of cost, is there, and this is certainly the cost that Parliament will have to return to. This whole change in the external environment also applies to the good advice that we need to get our own nest in order. A country that stands on its own internally and economically also withstands external pressures. Mr President! We too in Parliament must set the objective that the government has clearly set itself, that decisive steps must be taken this spring in this reform. In this respect, it is the spring of decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u6	Mr President! In many ways, it is the year of the solution. If Finland is not able to reform now, our welfare society as a whole will be threatened — that is, both well-being and society as we know it now. In many ways it is also a difficult year, probably the hardest years since the wars. There are several overlapping crises to be resolved, and the long recession is already reflected in the fall in the birth rate, which also reflects a lack of faith in the future. But we must not lose hope or lose hope. Above all, this must be a year of activity. Finland has long since taken the decisions that have led us to the current difficulties — neither the economic crisis nor the asylum crisis were created by chance. We ourselves have, through political decisions, opened up our economies and opened our borders. Both decisions relate in particular to our membership of the EU, which has already been enshrined in the Constitution. It is now necessary to make the national corrections that will enable us to deal with the circumstances surrounding these earlier decisions. Let me briefly highlight the key issues and solutions: In dealing with the asylum crisis, aid must be targeted more wisely than it is at present. The undisputed truth is that the current system is being widely used as an instrument for migration, while millions of the most vulnerable refugees in the neighbouring regions are suffering. Last week, the President of the Republic made a bold, sensible, even historical speech on the subject, which the government can take as a guideline. In order to solve the economic crisis, Finland needs more tax-paying work, i.e. jobs in the private sector. This requires competitiveness and exports. Neither cuts nor debt recovery are a permanent solution to our financial problems, but only structural reform. Social reform must be based on agreed objectives and principles without compromising. We expect a system of social security reform to be created that is economically sustainable and that will safeguard the services that citizens need. In external relations, we must both maintain our relations with Russia closely and actively contribute to the resolution of internal and external crises within the EU. As far as the development of the EU is concerned, the only sustainable path is to respect the independence of the Member States and to maintain their financial ownership. Mr President! Now is the time when the interests of many must take precedence over the interests of a few. If, instead of reforming and promoting the common interest, Finland succumbs to group lobbying and party politics, our days as a welfare society are numbered. This is the moment for a solution — no other, better time that we could wait for will come. And this must be the Parliament of solutions, for there is no other group to which we can place the responsibility. The government must take the right and courageous decisions, the opposition must make constructive criticisms and credible alternatives. In a time of need, there must be no room for party politics either in the government or in the opposition. In addition to the Government and Parliament, the social partners, the so-called contractual society, also exercise significant power in Finland. The social partners are contractual organisations; they are responsible for agreeing. Therefore, once again, I appeal with all my might: settle. If the contractual society is unable to function in this difficult time, it will be a major setback for the country. If the contracting organisations are unable to agree, it is also a significant fall in their authority. All power users must now be able to reflect on the interests of the group as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u9	Mr President! The consolidation of public finances and the achievement of savings in the agreed scale will determine the external credibility of Finland's finances. Debt management costs must be kept under control. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party considers it necessary to bring public expenditure to a level that can be financed sustainably. One of the main criticisms of the opposition has been that the income side of the fiscal balance was ignored, as if not all tools were in use. That is not at all true. It is true that we want to prevent an increase in tax rates. No nation has become wealthy by taxing itself, especially one that already has heavy taxation and strained progress. The profitability and competitiveness of Finnish work is a key issue. The difference between the government and the left-wing opposition is that the government wants to create new growth and a new tax base on the line of work and structural reforms. The Government's line is a clear choice for work and growth, and behind this line we can proudly stand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u18	Mr President, ärade talman! According to studies, Finnish people's sense of safety has deteriorated. In addition to government cuts, unemployment and the threat of unemployment increase insecurity. The year 2015 will be remembered for the government crisis and the labour market crisis. The year 2016 has to come for a year of solutions and cooperation. In difficult times, Finns must be able to trust that the decision-makers will be able to cooperate. Mr President! A good economic and employment policy is one of the best ways of providing citizens with a sense of security. This is something the government has forgotten, for it does not propose any impressive measures for the current year in any way, quite the contrary. Practiced surgery policy weakens growth and complicates people’s everyday lives. There is a risk that the feeling of insecurity will increase in 2016. This has to change. The government has flashed further cuts if the economic situation does not improve. In order to avoid a cycle of cutting, the government should strengthen economic growth and increase employment here and now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u29	Mr President, ärade talman! We Finns decide our own fate. After Finland gained independence and after the civil war, the choice was made to build our country together. A progressive constitution was made for Finland, the poor began to be raised from poverty, and only ten years after the war, representatives of the losing party were placed in government. During World War II, Finns also held one. After that, the land was manufactured together. The time began when Finland became prosperous and decided to join the Nordic welfare states. These actions were not coincidences. They require leadership, they require the gathering of people together. The decision-makers then wanted to make Finland better for posterity. We Finns decide our own fate. That is what we are doing today. Mr President! Finland is facing major changes. Our economy has not risen to the pace of the rest of Europe, and the restructuring of our industries is challenging. Many people’s concern for the future has grown in their daily lives: What happens to our children's schools? How can I secure a livelihood for my family? How will Finland become a good home also for those who have been given protection here? In responding to these challenges, we need global leadership. Yes, we have challenges ahead of us, but we can solve them together. We have to make decisions to raise people to work, to give every child a good learning path and education, to raise Finnish science and knowledge to the top of the world, to help those who already have the hardest to manage and who are poor in our country, to foster our environment and our national natural heritage and to renew our livelihoods as pioneers. Now is not the time to scare people on the Greek road or to be like frogs in boiling water. Now is not the time to lay off thousands of people from our universities or restrict our children's right to early education. Now is not the time to cut back on things that are the foundation stone of our country's future. Now is not the time to tear and break — and call it reform. We need to create for Finns a belief in the future, a confidence that our children can have better things tomorrow. This is the joint task of our decision-makers, and that is the trust that we must build together. Mr President! The Green Parliamentary Group expects these Parliaments to be able to build a better tomorrow for Finns. There are many things that unite us Finns and different parties in this hall and in Finland as a whole. We hope that the government will focus more and more on these issues. We are prepared to cooperate in this. Firstly, we must make it easier for people to enter the labour market. Our current social security system classifies people. Many people are humiliatingly begging for a living, others are being missed, it is not worthwhile for third parties to work because of incentive traps. Finland needs reforms that create hope for people. That is the basic income experiment to be conducted in the spring. Basic income can bring Finnish social security to the 2010s. It eliminates uncertainty and poverty, increases people’s management of their lives, always makes work worthwhile, facilitates entrepreneurship and self-employment, and increases the amount of work in a meaningful way. The Greens want to be involved in planning this basic income experiment. It must be sufficiently comprehensive and fair, and the common interest of all of us is that the experiment will also succeed. A decision on the introduction of basic income can then be made in the coming years. Mr President! Another major step forward can be the reform of social and health services. The Greens want to make sure that it gives Finns the right care and also gets it on time. At the same time, the historic reform of democracy in the provinces must be carried out with care. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the renewal of our livelihoods. We need more entrepreneurship and pioneering. We need courage in this country, and it is now also required of the government. Finland needs public investment, like Raide-Joker and Tampere express rails, which also increase private consumption and growth. Finland also needs energy renovations, and this spring the government needs incentives to boost renewable energy. The Greens are proposing an auction as one way to do this. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that we Finns have been leading the world in many areas — national pensions, primary schools and maternity packages — and... [President MariaLohela : Now, Congressman Niinistö, time is up. — Next, the left-wing parliamentary group, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u32	Madam President! The week before yesterday, Caruna received a harsh letter to its customers: on average, electricity transmission charges increase by about 30 percent. Caruna, which is mainly owned by Australian and Canadian venture investors, launders monopoly profits and pays for 600,000 Finnish electricity suppliers. And in order to highlight this trick with a spray-blue pen, Caruna circumvents Finnish taxes and recycles her money to tax havens. Caruna’s second main owner, the Australian First State Investments, boasts in his advertising video that its strategy is to invest in monopolies and make profits with them. The same venture investor now also owns the Finnish communications network monopoly Digita. So the Australians are charging us Finns for both electricity transmission and television viewing. It is strange that a business based on the management and maintenance of our national property, which is profitable for foreign buyers, is not profitable enough for Finnish sellers to keep the strategic ownership of companies and various electricity and communications networks in their domestic hands. The basic infrastructure must be held in domestic ownership, preferably public ownership. The question arises as to what, after the planned incorporation of Metsähallitus, the fate of our forests and waters, for example, will be in the future. Madam President! State companies have created work and wealth in Finnish society. In the last 20 years, this national property has been destroyed at an accelerated rate. The winners have been the foreign players. State-owned companies have been privatised at low prices, incompetent and contrary to the interests of the State. The saddest example is Fortum's fate. The State sold 37 per cent of Fortum's shares. Almost half of them went directly to foreign buyers through directed stock sales. If Fortum's shares had not been sold, its dividends would have come to the Finnish State as a whole and to this day the State would have received more than three times more revenue from Fortum and Neste Oil than the State received from privatisation sales, and in addition, the whole Fortum and Neste Oil would still be our national assets. The car survey was sold to private individuals for EUR 59 million in 2003. Three years later, the company was sold to foreign venture investors for several hundred million euros. Whoever takes his car to check out sees this on his bill. This is what I meant when I said that the state has acted in the privatization of state companies ineptly and contrary to the interests of Finland and Finns. Madam President! History is good to know so that you can make better decisions in the future. Mr. Prime Minister, you're in charge of corporate governance. You have told us that during the first quarter of the year, that is to say in the language of the financial capitalists, the government will bring Parliament to the attention of the Government in its communication on corporate governance. The big question is whether the Sipilä government is going to sell our national property at a lower price. The Finnish Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the present Centre Party of Finland, has played a key role in the creation of state-owned companies. In spring, the new ownership policy policies will determine the fate of our national ownership. Now we have to ask the President of the Centre, Prime Minister Sipilä, a tough question: does our country have the patience to prosper?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u33	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! År 2016 är i många avsenden helt avgörande för regeringens politik, och de facto med det samma för vårt lands framtid. Ekonomin är vårt främsta problem, och i practiceken främst sysselsättningen. Tyvärr är det ju så att regeringen Sipilä har Hunnit med ganska många misslyckade försök vad det främsta flaggskeppet beträffar, det vill säga det så kallade samhällsfördraget, social contract. Nu ska vi hoppas att det ox femte försöket faktiskt bär frukt, vi har inte råd att misslyckas längre. Här är det bara att önska regeringen lycka till.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u34	Madam President! This year will be a difficult year for Finns who suffer from unemployment, illness or endure with small pensions or try to support their families and children with low incomes. The beginning of the year is difficult for all those fleeing war and persecution. It is a challenge for security authorities. There are also many challenges for civil servants who have been put together as a welfare reform by the government. The long-term economic downturn is leading to high unemployment. Creating economic growth and thus improving employment is a key objective for this year. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament calls for concrete and rapid measures to improve the conditions for employment and entrepreneurship. We have put forward investments in employment and start-up funds for new entrepreneurs. We have proposed entrepreneurship reduction and additional investment in education, research and development. We have also proposed the use of the last 100 days of earnings-related daily allowance in the form of incentive pay subsidies or start-up grants. There is also an urgent need to reform the apprenticeship in order to make it an attractive way to work, both for young people, for professionals, for immigrants and for companies offering opportunities. In addition, due to the creation of new jobs and the increased competitiveness of new jobs, it is essential to bring the legislation on local reconciliation forward. Madam President! We need a reform that will guarantee comprehensive and uniform social and health services throughout the country. The reform should have been carried out in such a way as to find an optimal model for the organisation and production of social and health services. Instead, the government parties wanted to create a confused regional model, which is now being artificially combined with social services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u38	Mr President! Several speakers spoke of the spirit of association, the faith of the future and hope — and one of Caruna. Let me start with this last topic. During the previous parliamentary term, the Finns of Peru warned very much about this decision, which was then decided upon, and precisely about the situation in which we are now. It is very rarely worth importing a private monopoly rather than a public monopoly. Once again, this has been proven. We have never been involved in the sale of Finland’s vital national property, nor will we ever participate in it in the future, especially at low prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u41	Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Rinne said that there should be no new mandatory law on local agreement. This statement does surprise me, because this local agreement is precisely about an enabling model that can be agreed at the workplace. The only obligation attached to it is that the status of the employee representative will be strengthened by law. And I think it is a very good thing that the staff representative's position is strengthened there, so that there are the conditions for genuinely local agreement on these matters and thus for taking the Finnish society forward, because our financial situation is very difficult. And if the Finnish workplaces do not find the means to overcome the difficulties and cope with international competition, this whole nation will not survive. I acknowledge to Mr Ihalainen that he has raised the issue that this crisis clause is an important issue and that it will be possible to find temporary ways of overcoming the problem in a firm in difficulty. And I hope, as I have still cried out, that it is the view of the entire SDP that you are prepared to take this forward. Congressman Niinistö said, "Now is not the time to scare people on the Greek road." It seems to me that you have been following this economic development very closely lately, since for years, since 2008, we have financed more than ten per cent of the state budget with external debt and this year about 10 per cent. That now, if we send a message that this is not the case, we will do quite a disservice to future generations and to Finnish welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u42	Mr President! The SDP has been concerned about the stabilisation of the labour market through a proactive and long-term low-wage labour market solution throughout last autumn and even longer. We have been concerned about this and have offered, among other things, Mr Ihalainen, whom Mr Satonen has just praised, to help this situation, to find a solution if it cannot be found between the parties. This has been a cause for concern in the sense that the government has, by its own actions, enforced laws, a package of laws called the competitiveness package, poisoned the atmosphere in the negotiations on the labour market and, in fact, prevented progress and created suspicion and mistrust among the social partners. In exactly the same way I am now afraid that this local agreement may find this kind of risk that it poisons this atmosphere of social negotiations. Minister of Finance Alexander Stubb has stated that there is a need for such a tailboard, a legislative tailboard. I did not invent this law of coercion, and neither did the Social Democrats. And Jari Lindström, Minister of Justice and Labour of Finland, has stated 6. On 1 February this year, he is in favour of voluntary service, not a statutory obligation. Here it is, Mr Satonen, the basis for the government's forced-law process. I hope that this process will not now be disrupted by the government by the fact that a new law on forced labour will form the basis of local reconciliation here. I hope that the negotiating table will be able to make progress in such a way as to find a wage solution that will strengthen its long-term competitiveness and, according to many experts, provide the best possible solution to this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u43	Mr President! In many ways we are faced with big choices this year, and next year we will know a lot more about how Finnish society together will be able to solve these challenges that we now face. I have seen that the government has had little in its range of means, two of which have so far been achieved by those in which the government has stressed this tough cutting policy. Now we have redundancies in universities. In universities, as many as 1,000 people are forced to leave only two universities, Aalto University and the University of Helsinki. It is estimated that as many as 5,000 people will be cut in total. This undermines confidence that Finland will rise and that Finland will invest in knowledge, technology and economic growth from there. The same concern will then arise through these coercive laws for people, insecurity in working life and uncertainty about the government's desire to gather large numbers into reforms, to involve people, to involve social partners. The second way would be the way of soft, human reforms. In fact, here I would like to hear some answers from the Prime Minister. It was good of you to freeze the preparation of the coercive laws. It was a good thing that you were giving the social partners a chance. I would like to ask where could be the solution that would be appropriate for you, for example, to place more emphasis on wage moderation than on these cuts in sickness allowance, the cuts in wages. Could that be a model? Then I would like to see these major reforms — social and health care reform, basic income experiment — so that we have the patience to reform the welfare society so that people can be helped and not threatened with further cuts, as the Minister of Finance said, there may be additional cuts in the spring. However, the OECD and economic policy experts have seen that cuts in education, for example, are detrimental to economic growth. These reforms should now be brought about by:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u46	Madam President! Mr Vanhanen drew attention to the right sentence: mistakes need to be learned in order to be able to do better. That is why I brought up the failed privatisation processes in the last 20 years. Björn Wahlroos Mandatum or Peter Fagernäs Conventtu and mainly US investment banks will then act as state advisers. Those are the shops that all Finns will regret now. In December 2013, Jyrki Katainen's Government's Ministerial Committee on Economic Policy authorised Fortum, a state-owned company, to sell its electricity network. As a representative of the Left Alliance, I suggested that Fortum's electricity networks should not be sold to foreign venture investors. I considered them to be strategically important national property, and natural monopolies should not be given to the private market. Unfortunately, in that warning and in that presentation, I was unfortunately right, as history has now shown. Madam President! Well, at least in the civil service, there seems to be a lot of desire to sell. Yesterday, in an interview with Eero Hemivaara Yle, Head of Division of the Corporate Governance Department, the government complained that the government had a lot of lazy capital. Yes, it can be said that it becomes even more lazy when it becomes a financial product for lazy foreign investors. That is why I raised this as a first theme and addressed this, namely the dairy cow should not be slaughtered. Our state companies produce dividend income year after year, but once they are sold, dividend income will no longer come. In this situation, in particular, when the State receives debt at a minus interest rate, it is absolutely madness to sell profitable companies to shorten its debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u47	Fru Talman! Först några ord om det arv med statens ägande.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u48	Madam President! The earworm is called a song that remains to play even after the hearing. "It was a single last-spring song to Finland,and it is hoped that it would be possible for it to be carried out. Because Finland is not going to be all right. Unfortunately, the people are now very much divided. The Christian Democrats are concerned that the situation of low incomes, pensioners, families with children and the unemployed has continued to deteriorate. In order to avoid further speeding up these drastic cuts, the economy of the whole country must now focus on the creation of new jobs. Growing companies are created only on the basis of innovation, and in that sense it has been very confusing to follow the way in which the government has cut out precisely the research budget, the way in which universities have been forced into large redundancies, and the way in which even the quality of education is being reduced, from the time of primary education, from the time of early education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u51	We shall now proceed to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u52	Madam President! Last autumn, the opposition expressed concern that if the government does not change its economic and employment policy more in a more employment-friendly and balanced direction, there is a risk that the government will be subjected to further cuts in the coming spring. Mr President, it seems that this is happening. The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, has said that the government is facing further cuts. In fact, it seems that this has not only been the case with the opposition. "The government has not taken sufficient steps to The government has not succeeded in all its actions in such a way that it can now be seen quickly in terms of improving the economy and employment." That is what Mr Pekkarinen, Vice-President from the centre, said before Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u53	Madam President! Employment developments in Finland have still been very weak. Long-term unemployment has worsened and the government itself has made the situation of the unemployed worse. Among other things, the unemployment security law, which was adopted just before Christmas, has made it difficult for temporary workers, shredders, freelancers. The 191 - page instruction has not made it easier to interpret that unclear law, and I hear that the shredded workers are afraid to accept work when they fear that doing a job will completely deprive them of the right to unemployment security. Therefore, the government would need concrete measures to improve employment, to improve incentives, and the question is: because you will honour your promise that, for example, earnings-related unemployment allowance will be paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u54	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, in your speech you drew attention to the challenges facing an ageing society. Treatment of old people seems to be a permanent topic for us in Finland, and the main problem seems to be the lack of facilities in time and not enough. The family is extremely concerned about the elderly being able to cope with home care, and many even talk about neglect. In January, I myself spent one night in Riihimäki's night patrol of home care, and I agree with the concerns of these relatives. I am not at all convinced that all elderly people want to live alone in their own home for as long as possible. There are already elderly people living in homes whose "as long as it is possible" has already passed. Many elderly persons living alone are no longer at home but are safe in a nursing home. Mr President! During the last government term, the focus on care for the elderly was shifted towards home care, but home care has not been developed in the same time as institutional care has been pushed down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u55	Ärade talman, Mr President! The coming spring will be important for the Government, Finland and all of us Finns. Our country is a whole that is not just made up of the capital region and the countryside but is much more than that. Therefore, the government should show in its actions that it cares and listens to everyone and that what has been agreed is adhered to. Otherwise, confidence will be weakened, and unfortunately this has already happened. Last Saturday we celebrated the Sámi national day, not so nice. The Government has coldly removed the articles on the rights of the Sami people to participate in the new Metsähallitus Act, and this does not inspire confidence, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u56	Mr President! The government’s economic policy decisions and austerity policies raised a strong debate throughout the autumn. The social contract negotiations continued and ended on several occasions, and the government's social solution emerged after a very dramatic turnaround. Many of the themes that were raised last autumn will also be on the agenda during this spring, and I personally see it as the most important thing to achieve a social pact. Mr Prime Minister, in your New Year's greeting you wrote that the EUR 10 billion sustainability gap should be bridged during this reign. It's almost a year since the season, and the clock is ticking. What is the government's honest assessment of the situation? Can you reach this hard goal, or is it the case that additional cutting lists are already being prepared?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u57	Mr President! Finland has been ranked among the most competitive countries in the world in various international surveys. As a starting point, we, if anyone, have every opportunity to rise from this very difficult situation. The recipe for our success has so far been very clear: equality between women and men, access for children to quality day care and education, regardless of the background, a safety net for those in need and public confidence in the functioning of society. No wonder the citizens are now being harassed, namely, these government drugs would not have raised Finland after the wars, even with the aid of East Trade. The Sote reform has been turned into the city centre’s expensive administrative reform that serves the needs of power policy, and under the watchful eye of the National Coalition Party, education is cut at the expense of young people and the future of Finland as a whole, and the day care solution drives mothers home and claims that this helps to spin the wheels of the economy. Customer fees will be increased even if purchasing power should be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u58	Mr President! The Prime Minister used a constructive, good speech in many ways. But I was disappointed that the Prime Minister had not now heard the wishes and speeches of the embryos in the centre. In your paper, your party council chairman, Ovaska, also agreed with the opposition's criticism of education. Guess who says, "A country that doesn't respect civilization and knowledge can't survive." This is said by Pellervo’s new director of financial research, Dr. Iiro Jussila. I could list the top scientists in the long litania country who are concerned about this situation. Can you, Mr Prime Minister, think that, in spring, you are really going to catch up with the resources of education and research and value our scientific and scientific circles in the fact that we have now crossed the border?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u59	Mr President! It is now that everything from global to domestic affects the situation in Finland and is also exceptionally closely linked. It is therefore necessary for the government's economic policy to be guided by these clear objectives, major structural changes, which are pursued in a straightforward manner, as is the case today. At the moment, that dreaded Greek road has taken us all the way to the bottom, as it were. Greece, too, is pulsing ahead of us, at the moment. Furthermore, we are still threatened by the fact that we will be subject to more stringent EU controls. I would ask the Prime Minister: However, the ratingr Moody’s still assigned us three A's. Is it incorrectly estimated, or is it the case that foreign evaluators continue to trust that the Finnish Government will take care of these matters as long as we stick to these plans?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u60	Madam President! A great many speakers have rightly criticised cuts in education. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't feel sick about these training cuts. But there is no alternative, which would then be cut off. At the same time, however, it must be remembered that, for example, throughout the 21st century, the university budget has almost doubled. In some ways, it is clear that at the University of Helsinki, for example, when these violent redundancies were carried out, two thirds of the administration is. A couple of weeks ago, I met an actor who was familiar with the entire Finnish people, who studied at Theatre Academy in the 1970s. He said that in the '70s the number of students was about the same as today, but then there were seven people in the administration, about a hundred today. There's something wrong with this. Mr President! I would also like to say that you, the opposition, are going to do a wonderful fakir trick now. You seem to be hindsight in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u61	Mr President! This Chamber is quite often dominated in the debate by the fact that there are no alternatives, as if there were no alternatives. The alternative budget for social demoks is built in such a way that it takes less debt than the government takes, more than EUR 300 million, does not increase the tax rate. Use the income element on which the OECD and this Economic Assessment Council have set out similar guidelines that it is worthwhile using income elements. There is an alternative, it is reported in the Socialist alternative budget. It is a better option than the government: it is fairer from the point of view of pensioners, from the point of view of the unemployed, from the point of view of families with children, and it does not cut off the future or education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u62	Mr President! Indeed, in this debate in Finland there are just two things that go wrong. When we talk about the road to Greece, we are intimidated that we have such a debt burden, that now we have to cut down so much on important matters that we can get through this. Well, in fact, in international comparison, our position is still relatively good in the sense that our debt management costs are the lowest for 25 years and we get debt at low interest rates. But our problem is economic growth, its lack, the employment outlook and the long-term sustainability gap. It will then be worth considering long-term structural changes, adapting to savings through structural reforms and creating economic growth. The Greens are in favour of basic income testing, social reform and many structural reforms. But we believe that cutting out of education is precisely cutting back on future growth and employment, as well as limiting the right to early childhood education, that mothers are forced to stay more and more at home and not enter the labour market. These are all backward policies that do not create growth but weaken it, and this is a government problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u63	Madam President! These criticisms of savings made by the opposition are just such a vain shout when you are not honestly prepared to tell us what you are prepared to save instead.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u66	Mr President! I have not in any way criticised the debate here on economic policy in general. What makes us nervous in this debate is, as it were, letting us understand that there are no alternatives and that there are no alternatives. If, Mr Zyskowicz and the rest of you, who are now assessing the alternative budget for the SDP, really look at the paper, go through it, then you will see that these unpleasant cuts have been removed for pensioners, the elderly and the unemployed, the cuts in education have been removed. There are, however, EUR 500 million worth of spending cuts. But there the income side has also been exploited in such a way that the balance of central government is created. The SDP's option to take a debt of 330 million less than the government's proposal. The SDP proposal does not increase the tax rate in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u67	Mr President! Mr Rinne, in your alternative budget, you proposed that Sitra and the Bank of Finland should be cupped, so you can say that it was a long way from dreaming and selling the national wealth of society. The second question, the social pact: your speech would have made it more credible if you had, for once, genuinely stood behind it. You are simply telling us that you are concerned, but you have been at the root of this agreement all along. Third, ownership policy: Quoting your former chairman, this is a handwash. Your screen was for the sale of Fortum's electricity network, and now you are here to guide the government on how the ownership policy should be managed. Fourthly, this social and regional reform: you say we should start from the beginning, a parliamentary working group. You had four years of key minister dealing with this matter. And what was the outcome? It's a total zero. So these things don't go any further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u68	Mr President! There were so many mistakes in that speech by Mrs Rantakangas that I cannot correct everyone during one speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u72	Madam President! Of course, there is not just one option in politics, even though Mr Zyskowicz is trying to put it that way. For example, when the Economic Policy Evaluation Council issued its own report, Finance Minister Stubb, for the first time, honestly said about cutting policy: 'We made a choice of values'. It is a value choice in not wanting to collect more tax revenue from high incomes, for example, but rather cutting it from the lowest income families. But if we are to succeed as a country in the future, we need jobs and we need growth. And what gives birth to it? Skills level, education, research, product development. And what does the government do now? Shoots into our own generation that we will have opportunities in the future, not just that 4000 people will be unemployed from universities, but that it will continue to be far into the future — that we will lose employment through these cuts in education and training to a long future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u73	Madam President! Prime Minister, I will return to the beginning of your first speech. That frog parable you brought up is also well known and used when talking about climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u76	Madam President! This debate on local agreement is quite interesting. At least I have lived in the belief that it is widely recognised that in Sweden, for example, this system works. It's based on trust. Now suddenly something new is being painted about it and it is no longer possible to have a sensible debate — the culture of conversation in this country is quite wonderful. We just have to hope that the government will find its trust in the labour market and you will be able to create it in such a way that something is done here that is longer than a hand and not just a symbolic act, because it is not needed here. As far as these options are concerned, it would of course be desirable for Mr Zyskowicz, for example, to read the alternative budget of the RKP, when you claim that...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u79	Mr President! I see we're still dealing with this, but we know that the economic, debt and asylum crisis is a reality. Nevertheless, we have a responsibility to the people. There are too many people without a place to live, too many people are in the bread line, and we also have mental and physical emptiness. But we know that Finland will only rise with work. Whoever criticizes it, let him start a business and hire people so that he knows that it is not as easy at the moment to start a business as it is being criticized. When these social and regional government reforms are carried out, there should also be a person at the heart of that. There should be no increase in power structures and bureaucracy; on the contrary, it should be dismantled. Finally, I would like to say that we must together defend Finland, our Christian values, our justice and our culture, and really help those asylum seekers who are in need of help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u80	Let's take the representatives of Viitanen, Niinistö and Uotila. Then the Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u81	Madam President! Prime Minister, I read an excellent text today. It says, among other things, that cutting policy is not the solution — both the Economic Policy Review Council and the OECD are expressing their concern about the cuts in education that eat up growth — and it is hoped that the spending limits debate will have to be able to invest in investment, particularly in support of the export industry. Prime Minister, this text was not of the SDP's good alternative budget, although it could have been imagined. This text was from the article by Jouni Ovaska, chairman of the Central Party Council, which contained this very real embryo spirit, which has been hoped for here too. The same spirit has been felt, among other things, in Mr Pekkarinen' s speech, in which it has been said that if we do not invest in employment here and now, it will be a waste of money. And that is why you, Prime Minister, should now inform Parliament that you are going to review your government programme in a more employment-friendly direction. Don't make the mistake of...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u82	Mr President! To Mr Zyskowicz: there are five opposition parties in this Parliament, and there are five different options in this Parliament as to how to avoid cuts in education — each opposition party has presented its own — so I would like to see this 'no alternative' mantra removed. People think it is unintelligent and unfair when it comes to their jobs when they are laid off in colleges. It makes you feel like they're not appreciated. I wish for respect. These are people's jobs, Finnish competence, science, research and education at stake. Now, the seriousness of this matter. Mr President! More broadly, I would now like to see the positive tone that the Prime Minister had in his speech that we would find more and more common. You spoke well about the integration of asylum seekers and this challenge. Let us solve these problems pragmatically together, solve the problems of reforming Finland rather than making drastic cuts that hit the education and the weaker. Would you be prepared to change direction and avoid cuts if reforms progress better?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u83	Madam President! The Prime Minister's speech was pretty good. It was better than the group speeches of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u86	Then Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes. — — — — That's a good place to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u87	Mr President! Thank you for the debate. Yesterday I visited the international company unit in Oulu, where production is strictly maintained in Finland. I talked there with the staff and with the management of the factory, and I can only imagine how they feel about hearing this debate here in the Chamber. Their motto is that nothing is impossible. And here, I feel like everything's impossible. They are in intense international competition all the time, every single day fighting for the legitimacy of their existence through continuous improvement in the ability to keep the operations in Finland. Oh, if this spirit were to take hold of all of us Finns, in all of our activities, even when together we are reforming Finland. Mr Östman, you said that the sustainability gap should be corrected during this parliamentary term. The EUR 10 billion sustainability gap must be faced with all the necessary decisions for this period. It consists of three entities. We need savings. They have been estimated at EUR 4 billion and are supported by all external estimates, including the OECD's assessment and the Economic Assessment Council's assessment. 2 billion will come with growth-promoting measures, I will come back to them later, and 4 billion with these savings, which your party's chairman said were lumps — an offensive expression to the work to be carried on from the previous period. As far as local reconciliation is concerned, it is quite impossible for me to understand the fear that we have in the workplace. I think it will strengthen the contractual society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u92	Mr President! In his first speech, the Prime Minister spoke beautifully about the fact that preventive action for children will be strengthened and the role of women in working life strengthened, but now the reality is that afternoon care fees were doubled and there will be up to 20% increases in day care fees. Many families are now calculating whether it is worth going to work anymore. In Helsinki, a middle-income couple will have to wonder whether it pays EUR 670 a month for the care of two children or whether the other spouse — and this is usually the mother — will be supported by home care. The OECD also drew attention to the employment of women in its country report and stressed that attention should be paid to the employment rate of women, and Mari Kiviniemi, the former President of the Centre, raised this issue during her visit to Finland. I would now like to ask how the government is now really going to encourage this...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u93	Mr President! Finland cannot hang itself in history, as the opposition intends. We need exactly the grip with which the government does these things. At the same time as we are trying to put the economy in order, we are building a whole new future. An example of this is the EUR 1 billion investment in key projects. Furthermore, with regard to education and training, while we have major structural reforms — we have our own, most competent group in the process of reforming it — the government is investing EUR 300 million in the construction of a new one. A few examples: new learning environments, digital materials for primary schools. At the same time, we could get our business life involved, create new jobs in Finland — both of these things are combined. Reform comprehensive school to the 2020s. We've read about how the Pisa results are getting weaker. We cannot remain in a situation where we do not reform. On this point, our Minister of Education has taken this very seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u94	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä rightly raised the question of the assessment of state ownership, which needs to be done. You have given us some criticism of the fact that the left is against everything, but I must say with my heart that it was really great that our party chairman, then Minister Arhinmäki, opposed this Caruna trade that has come here. It is very good that this trade was then also opposed to the Finns of Finland and the Centre of Finland, which has come to light here. But now that the new instruments have been discussed, I would like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä: would it be possible, for example, to use the assets of Senate properties of EUR 4.5 billion as a guarantee that we are now taking on a less interest-bearing debt in order to capitalise on growth funds?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u95	Mr President! This country can also be served from the opposition, and this message goes particularly to the Social Democrats because during the last parliamentary term you had all the key portfolios from the Minister of Finance to the Minister of Labour to improve employment. Now we know what happened: Finland slipped into the pits of unemployment and recession. Against this background, I feel that you also share the responsibility for the creation of a social pact. It would therefore be very fair for you here to clearly commit yourself to supporting the creation of a social pact, because it would make this situation easier. For you could be part of the responsibility that I feel you have as the legacy of the last parliamentary term, which we now have to deal with together. I can assure you that these decisions are not pleasant, but they must be taken because they cannot be ignored.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u96	Mr President! Not only is politics forced, but it is also value choices, and there is always room for manoeuvre in both savings and tax allocation. I am talking about one thing that is quite important in terms of how Finland will stand together. That's how we treat the different population groups. Pensions from the beginning of this year — I do not know whether the Prime Minister has followed — will not rise at all. National pensions are even being cut slightly. Now quite a few pensioners are asking what is the imperative that prevents the same tax relief for the pensioners as what is given to the workers. Do we have to do this, or is this some other choice? When payments go up — health centre fees, clinic fees — quite a few pensioners’ households are in trouble. In this particular situation, should we not give these tax reductions to everyone, including pensioners? And when this is generally the case, I ask Mr Stubb: why are you not in favour of tax cuts for pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u97	Madam President! The situation of older people was raised from the left. You were in the government itself during the previous period, where the dismantling of the sites was continued, and this is where we go. I myself have been working nights for 14 years and I know what the situation is in those institutions. One of the core issues of the social reform is that we get the professionals, the right experts, there in the right places, that is to say to ensure that older people are safe both at home and there in the institutions — is that not so? — i.e. professionals, trained people to do that work. However, I would like to raise the issue of insecurity faced by older people. The new phenomenon is that an increasing number of older people may face abuse or even crime. In what way can we update this matter? The report on the Internal Security Programme will be updated this spring. We'll get a statement on it. Is there any way we can plug it in?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u98	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma launched this debate on the livelihood of pensioners. When this opening took place, it was after yesterday’s discussion on this folded index that hit sensitive soil. In my opinion, the SDP, if you seriously think that this debate on the folded index will be opened, it will be the subject of a major social debate. It is now 20 years ago, but it is the main factor in why pensions did not rise at the beginning of the year. I believe that one thing could be agreed in this debate on savings per year that has begun, and that next autumn, when the next part of the debate on savings is held, it will be agreed that the opposition will also have new options. The options that were used last autumn came to replace the decisions of the government last autumn. There will also be new proposals for savings from the opposition next autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u99	Mr President! Indeed, there are justified criticisms of the index for pensioners. But I only raised the issue of why taxes do not treat pensioners in the same way as workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u102	Madam President! We need to put the economy in order and we need to break the debt, and we need to do so through work. And when we succeed in this, the government has agreed that the 1 billion tax cuts will come to pensioners, what has been said for it, they will come to all those who work. I'm sure this is the right line. The dismantling of standards is an important part of this improvement in work and productivity. Trade opening hours have already been liberalised, but in construction we have a billion-thousand-thousand class of investments in the permit process. We have included in the Government Programme, among other things, the transition from municipal complaints to administrative complaints, so that at least unnecessary complaints can be eliminated, and much more about planning. I would like to ask Mr Tiilikainen, the Environment Minister who is there: what is the timetable for these construction standards?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u104	Mr President! I can understand the opposition when it is accused that they have no choice. Of course, for understandable reasons, the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left Alliance in particular have been embarrassed. Well, they have a way of doing things, don't they? It must now be remembered that decisions are being taken in the government and the opposition is being shouted out. There's a lot of experience in both of us. If we take a look back in history at what those parties did, these three parties, when they were in the government, there were surprisingly severe cuts in education in the last parliamentary term — from the last parliamentary term, it is not that far off, it is the way to go. But when we were just talking about whether Greece is in the way of debt, we are not in the way of debt, but the level of debt is clearly in the way of Greece. Half of the foreign debt has been incurred in the last seven years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u105	Mr President! I drew attention to the fact that the group statements of several representatives of the government parties were almost at the end of the world. And I am not quite sure whether it is wise now to intimidate the public and present the only alternative to a policy when, according to studies, the public's sense of security has already been shaken. People should now be given hope and faith in the future and strengthen the security of everyday life, where the primary priority is to take care of the operation of basic services. Here I am referring, Mr President, to the reform of the government's social security system and to this major reform of the regional government, in which the marching order has turned in a strange way. Instead of providing citizens with access to a doctor, which is an important whole of social and health care services, the government is now working on the massive construction of a third administrative staircase in Finland in connection with the regional reform. This reform of basic services has, in a strange way, turned upside down, to increase government. Same...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u106	Mr President! The old politician's orders are that you tell the truth, but encourage. Our economic situation is very serious, and when we look at economic growth forecasts, we are at the end of Europe. And there's nothing we can do about the facts. It has been good to note in this debate that a common picture of the economic situation is beginning to develop, that the images are close to each other — so that it is positive — but this is not a scare if we say so. Then I would like to say to the SDP and the Greens: You say that you have an alternative budget solution for almost everything. The SDP made four alternative budgets in a row, the SDP Minister of Finance. This government has been eight months, and you have now been in the opposition for a few months. Now, on the basis of the experience you had in the government, you have found a solution. Has Siberia taught you, or what is it? Or is that what it's all about?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u107	Mr President! The Prime Minister there said a moment ago that everything should be possible. I think that the idea is that, no matter where these proposals and ideas are presented, they should be taken seriously. Finland is now in such a serious situation. Against this background, and against the background that the Prime Minister himself wished for a constructive debate here, the options — and we have presented them — I am surprised over and over again that the representatives of the government parties here, as we have just seen, have been laughing at those seriously put forward alternatives. Now I would like to put forward one concrete alternative and ask the government if it would be appropriate. Much has been said about these daily care fees increases for hardworking, working families. We have proposed that the introduction of legislation to prevent interest rebates from being imposed on profits carried abroad, as this amount could be used to cancel these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u109	Madam President! The Government's economic guidelines were given a boost by the Economic Policy Review Council, among other things, by the fact that the government does not make sufficient use of the fiscal palette in seeking a balance in the state budget. On the other hand, the government was also criticised for not assessing in any way the impact of its decisions on the various population groups and, among other things, for not assessing how the income differentials increase as a result of government decisions. The sitting government has taken only steps back in relation to equality. I listened with great concern to the Prime Minister's speech when you said that the intention of the government is now to relax the conditions of timeliness this spring. It may be discussed whether the conditions of time-limit should be relaxed, but
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u110	Mr President! Indeed, the SDP has an alternative budget in which, according to Mr Rinne, Finland will take less debt next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u111	Madam President! The clock in Finland is in the past. Almost all the speeches here have focused on criticizing past decisions. It seems rather unusual in itself, because almost all parties in this Chamber have been cooking this soup of recession in the last eight years. Mr President! Now we are not helped by criticising the solutions of the past. I am certainly not wrong if I say that the Finnish people expect us to work together. Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your constructive approach today and ask: when will you invite the chairmen of all the parliamentary groups to hold a joint meeting, in which we would look for a common road map to lift our people out of recession, because this pecking that we started here last season has not led to anything, and this pecking that is not going to lead to anything?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u112	Ärade talman, Mr President! Regeringen presenterade på fredagen hur jourverksamheten ska organiseras i framtiden. Krävande specialjour concentreras till 12 sjukhus, och brådskande mottagningsverksamhet under kvällar och dagtid under veckoslut ordnas av älsovårdscentralerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u113	Madam President! Together we should take care of our national property and, in particular, our citizens. It is up to us to take responsibility for improving employment, for sufficient income and for the security of our citizens. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that the savings and cuts already made by the government are certainly not contributing to these common objectives. There has been a lot of talk here that we should be working together, and the opposition has also been called on to join the economic process. We have put forward some serious options, but unfortunately our voice has not been heard or listened to in this Chamber. I hope that this will change. Madam President! Today, there will also be an amendment to the annual holiday law, which once again aims to weaken the financial position of parents of young children, in this case mothers. I have to ask: Is the government supposed to increase the pay gap between men and women? And is it really right that the measure should cause it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u114	Madam President! We will not survive without an increase in employment. Employment is of great importance to the individual citizen, to his family, but also to society as a whole. Unfortunately, during the year, unemployment and the climate of hopelessness have increased. Getting a new job is not as easy as it was a few years ago. Minister Lindström, we both come from South-East Finland, and unemployment in South-East Finland has increased by up to 6 per cent over the year. At the same time, however, the government invests less in the management of employment and unemployment than in the past. The long-term unemployed and the youth unemployed have now been put against each other because of a lack of money, and this has, on the other hand, caused various problems in terms of employment. Mr Lindström, please explain to us why, in this situation, even though unemployment is increasing, you are investing in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u115	Let's take Mr. Lindtman and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u116	Mr President! This is a social agreement that has been discussed here. And I will continue to repeat the message that we have repeated all autumn and we will repeat this year: Finland needs a long-term wage moderation. Instead, the question arises as to whether the government front is united in the desire for a social pact. A few days ago, Mr Koski, the representative of the Coalition Party, said — Yle gave an interview and said — that he directly hoped that there would be no social contract. And really, as far as this is concerned, it is good that the government suspended the preparation of forced laws. But now, Prime Minister, do you support the view of your own Minister for Labour in this local agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u117	Then Prime Minister Sipilä for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u118	Mr President! If I start with this social contract. All the time we have been trying to ensure that the social partners agree with each other. Now they have the ball — we hope that they will actually get ahead now. Why do we not put a mediator there, such as your representative, Mr Ihalainen, who is an excellent representative? Because we still have full confidence, even after five failures, that a decision can be made at that table. With regard to the rate of debt, Mr Turunen said just as it is, so our debt rate is the problem, and in that sense we are on a dangerous path. The question of climate change was asked. We take this opportunity, of course this is one of the positive prospects for Finnish industry too: circular economy, bioeconomy, so on. Someone was referring to Moody's assessment. It hasn't been done. That announcement on Saturday was incorrect, but external evaluators have found that the package of balancing the economy is in balance. On Sunday, I discussed the integration of immigrants with Ilkka Peura, director of Kauhava reception centre, and this is a good example. I urge everyone who just wants to see how a working system can be built in practice: visit it. Obstacles have been removed and people visit the workplace and so on. It is what integration in practice is. Nor do they seem to be distressed by the limitations of the legislation, but they have found the right ways to act. As far as this discussion on corporate governance is concerned, the most dangerous is the private monopoly, and I fully agree with Mr Arhinmäki on that. Last season I was opposed to this change, not if Fortum wanted to give up something, but that we did not seize it as a society, and it would also have been possible for such a people share. Presentation of Senate real estate: Currently, there are no security problems preventing the government from obtaining a loan. I hope that you will refine that proposal a little further. As far as the taxation of pensioners is concerned, this too is a ball for the social partners. If these negotiations are successful and Finland’s competitiveness improves sufficiently, then there will be this EUR 1 billion tax reduction, which also applies to pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u121	Next, Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u122	Madam President! If we start with this local arrangement and what I've said and who I've come to. I'm on the government line. When the Local Agreement Group was set up, the first thing came to be the title of the Tripartite Working Group on Local Agreement and Strengthening the Status of Personnel for Legislative Changes in Business Decision-Making. The status of staff and local agreement in the same sentence — it seems to be forgotten in a few speeches. Well, what does it say here in the letter of intent? "The preparation of legislation takes account of the This is what I have supported, and then in my mouth some text TV puts the word "requires" that Lindström insists on making an agreement. I'm nothing to demand. I hope that agreement will be reached through agreement. Let's get this straight. Many drew attention to this local agreement — Mr Rinne, Mr Satonen, Mr Haglund — and raised this confidence, and it seems that there is still no such trust. It's a shame. At least in this debate, we always seem to doubt each other. Thank you, Mr Laukkanen, for your very constructive speech. This is what we need, and we can't get ahead of each other by blaming each other. Of course we can disagree on things, and I'm sure we won't be able to go any further by remembering the old ones. Mr Kiljunen asked about the employment budget. The government program says they're cutting them too. They're being operated on. I've been straight with you. I'm not making any promises. But I need new tools, and the new tool is, among other things, this idea that earnings-related can be used for start-up and pay support. This thing is in preparation, it's moving forward, I'm rushing it because I need that tool. We must change these structures for employment, for the management of unemployment. This is the kind of tool I'm looking forward to. When asked about this, for example, in Joensuu, where this kind of employment seminar was held, what did the audience think about whether it was someone from 80 to 90 per cent who thought this was the right direction: going from passive money to activate it. That is what we need, and here we agree. So this is progressing. Finally, Mr Haglund, you asked for concrete information on the employment of immigrants, asylum seekers. Well, one concrete element is the partnership programme, which means that companies have become very strongly involved in this. They offer their help — but... It 'but' always comes from the fact that we have bureaucratic obstacles, and these obstacles must be removed, not only from asylum seekers, but from the unemployed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u123	One more minute to Minister Tiilikainen and then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u124	Thank you, Mr President. — Brief answer to three questions: We're moving on with the de-normalization. Some of the proposals for the reform of the Land Use and Building Act have already come to Parliament, the rest will be prepared, the rest will come this year. The renewal of environmental authorisation and other authorisations is being prepared for full carbon monoxide. The Metsähallitus bill, which is in Parliament, does not weaken the position of the Sami people compared to the current situation, but rather improves it by means of negotiating committees. Our climate policy is consistent. We were actively building a climate balance in Paris. We drive up the share of renewable energy early. We're running the emission reduction early. We are reforming the EU's emissions trading system in such a way that our industry, which is in high international competition, is able to cope and jobs are safeguarded. Cleantech, on the other hand, offers new opportunities for many areas of growth and work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u125	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u126	Mr President! The Prime Minister said just now that if this social agreement, the labour market solution, were to come about, then there could be a billion dollars in tax cuts and this will also affect pensioners. I understand in this way that the government has decided, through the income tax scale, to make this tax reduction if it is ever to come. That means, Prime Minister, that this tax differential between an employee, an employee, i.e. a person in paid employment, and a pensioner will remain. My question is: Am I right in this interpretation? Are you leaving this stricter taxation of pensioners with regard to wage earners permanent? Then I would like to say to those who have expressed doubts about the social democrats' desire to support the social pact, the labour market solution, that this is a wrong speech. Social Democrats support a labour market solution that provides a stable, long-term wage solution to increase predictability in the labour market. My personal view is that, in this situation, it makes no sense for domestic consumer demand and purchasing power to be cut by wage cuts. The little bars, the little restaurants, the cafes... [President MariaLohela: Now on fire. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u129	Mr President! Indeed, I agree with the fact that it is very important to have that sufficiently ambitious labour market solution so that we can get to this tax reduction, so that pensioners also have a fair share in it. But one of the things I personally resent about this policy is that when there are some studies, so — everyone here is doing it — that the study takes the spot that seems to please himself. And now, if we are talking about the report by the Evaluation Council or the OECD, it is quite true that there are criticisms of the savings in education, it is true that there is a proposal to raise VAT — but it is not in favour of anyone other than the RKP, as far as I know — but the main message on the front page is that the adjustment of the economy, this current austerity policy and the balancing of public finances, is absolutely right. And this is, for example, completely unread by the Greens, which means that your line is completely unread...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u130	Mr President! I would like to emphasise that leadership is one of the most difficult forms of leadership. People need to be involved, people need to trust that change is also better for them in their everyday lives, to get them to make that change themselves. And then such hard coercion is not a good way, but can rather prevent that reform from being good for Finland and Finnish society. I myself know that from experience when I was a minister during the last parliamentary term — we had to adjust very much, and that budget book has already been very carefully reviewed. The cuts that are now being carried out are quite painful and often harmful, particularly those of the Evaluation Council and the OECD. When the government has left less of a choice of means where softer reforms can be made, I find that to be the most worrying feature. In the tax element, for example, the use of tax deductions is something that the Evaluation Council stressed could be used more, it would expand
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u131	Mr President! Perhaps Mr Niinistö's call for change management would also be needed in our culture of discussion. In fact, it seems quite a bit that the same record runs as it did in the previous period. If we are talking about this aspect of education, then we have EUR 300 million invested in the transformation that is aimed at responding to the changing world — which, by the way, is changing at a very fast pace. I do think that Finland's rise is quite a lot also up to our own attitude: is the cup half full, half empty, or does the cup go completely down. We have enormous potential in this country when it is simply harnessed. On this point, I agree with many of those who have spoken here that we must try to make the changes as fair as possible. And we do need the views of all parties
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u132	Mr President! Much has been said about employment, and that is a good thing. I think that all parties agree here that improving employment is the only way to balance public finances and also to secure the financial basis of the welfare state. It is for this very reason that it is extremely worrying that it is the government's efforts to improve employment that are not convincing. The opposition has also focused on this in its own criticisms, and this is a criticism which I believe the government should respond to and take seriously. The first part is this package of compulsory legislation, which has now produced a lot of expert judgements that these employment effects are over-optimistic. It has been found, at the beginning of this year, that income tax reductions are not an effective means of improving employment. And finally, there is this lack of employment appropriations. Much has also been said about the harmful effect of cuts in public spending on employment, and despite this, the group president of the centre, Matti Vanhanen, has now stated that at the beginning of the year:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u133	Madam President! This government decided to cut the budget for development cooperation by 38%. In your speech, Prime Minister, you said that aid must be directed where it is needed. This is absolutely true, of course. There are those who need help: at present there are millions of people in the world who need immediate help, not to mention the long-term crisis, whether it is water shortages or avoiding extreme poverty. These people also move, they move from village to village, and from country to country. It is therefore wrong and irresponsible to come here and tell us time and again how to help people on the ground when this government decided to cut a record amount of development funds in a time when the world needs help more than ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u134	Madam President! The past, such as the Caruna case, must be learned and done what can be done right now. Minister Rehn has taken a strong responsibility on this issue, as has Prime Minister Sipilä. One example of this is the government's tax-based consolidation project, which constrains tax planning and tax losses abroad. There are ways, such as a restriction on the right to deduct interest on business taxation. There has been much talk of this in the Chamber. As a second point, I would like to raise the issue of Finnish security. We, too, in this Chamber are creating the atmosphere of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u135	Mr President! Good government! It's not so bad that something good isn't. The Government's objectives for a carbon-free future are commendablely ambitious and in the right direction, and the objective of halving imported oil also receives our support. But these objectives also require measures, such as the maintenance and development of a sustainable public transport base, and we all know what is happening to this. You still have time to change course. Due to the nominal savings of more than EUR 1 million, it is not worth wrecking the entire public transport structure of Western Uusimaa, an area that should symbolise the competitiveness and attractiveness of our country. That is why we sincerely hope for an open, solution-oriented and direct debate between the ministry and the representatives of the region to resolve the problem. We hope you will listen. We know that the assembly listens — and very often listens to the EK. Competitiveness is public transport, but it is also education. Isn't that why it's time again?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u136	Madam President! It is good that we can have a debate in this Chamber, and hopefully we will be able to have a constructive debate. In my earlier speech, I referred to the closing of the sustainability gap and it was good that the Prime Minister responded. I'm just telling you where my information came from, that the Prime Minister knows what's written in public. Financial messages on New Year's Eve: "Sipila writes in her New Year's greeting that the EUR 10 billion sustainability gap is to be bridged during the current government term." I believe that when the Prime Minister stated what timetable the government intends to take through it. But then there was an additional sentence, and I would like to hear the answer: "If this is not possible, in spring 2017, the government will have to make additional savings and tax increases." So does the government believe that you will have the indicators at the end of this year in the condition that you will be able to see even then what will happen with this sustainability gap?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u137	Madam President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good speech, and this was very constructive and long-standing about this immigration situation. From such a question I would ask that when we have received some 30 000 Inkerinsuomans in Finland since the 1990s, according to the website of the Ministry of the Interior and the Finnish Immigration Service, they have been chosen on the basis of reasonable or good knowledge of origin, ethnic background and language skills — Finnish and Swedish — they have really adapted to Finland well and integration has been successful. The question is: could one learn from it, and has one learned from it? My second question concerns the issue of infrastructure. In many areas, the water infrastructure has been transferred to public limited companies and those regional monopolies which are seeking to produce water through artificial groundwater. Is there a risk in these limited liability companies that ownership will be transferred abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u138	Mr President! You, Prime Minister, also raised the issue of relations between Finland and Russia and, of course, you pointed out that we are pursuing a common EU policy and sanctions. Personally, I am concerned about how this will develop precisely in terms of our trade in the East and our relations with the East. Finland's agricultural production and many other things have depended on this exports and trade in the East. Of course, the question arises — when I know that sanctions depend on the development of Ukraine — whether we can in any way support or speed up the creation of some sensible solution to the situation in Ukraine. I know that you have met Prime Minister Medvedev, and I am sure you have a view of that. The second thing I am concerned about is that, once economic relations have faded, this kind of civil society communication with Russia will be reduced and, as it were, people's knowledge and knowledge of Russian affairs will be reduced. I believe that this would be an issue that should also be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u139	Mr President! A few times this picture of the situation has been raised at regular intervals and whether there is too much intimidation in a government or opposition speech. The opposition became critical of the fact that our group speech, for example, had too much of it. Well, if we were very clear about Finland being in a difficult situation, we felt that we also made it very clear that we have not lost our hope and certainly not lost it. On the other hand, I would also like to ask about the direction of the opposition: do you not feel that during the last autumn, when cuts have been discussed one by one, every one of them in a very sharp way: this is the end of everything, this is the end of the welfare society, this is the end of the whole system? I feel that this has been repeated very frequently, and it is precisely creating threats, creating fears that are unnecessary, which make the mental state hopeless and, as it were, cause us to become inactivity, to become depraved, to which we must by no means fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u140	Mr President! There is a very different spirit here than there was less than a week ago at the opening ceremony of the parliament in which the President of the Republic spoke. In his speech he said that when we have these difficult problems, at least a couple of major problems, the economy will be easier. Now, in this debate, which I regard as a valuable debate, it is clearly reflected that the economy is the more difficult problem for us. I think this spirit is all right here. Prime Minister, in your speech you also referred to the same point where the President of the Republic spoke about the way in which the EU's responsibility in this particular asylum and refugee policy is central. I personally share the view that the EU has been a decisive failure in this regard. Now, as part of the EU, Finland has also gone to finance Turkey and to channel funds to where these people are coming into the EU. As I see it, it is important that in the future Finland is strongly involved in strengthening the EU's border control, not only, but in all those measures that would prevent unnecessary running: people running around Europe and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u141	Madam President! I'll take it from the very same point of view. Almost a week was heard in the media about what the President of the Republic might have said in that opening speech. I myself drew attention to the statement made by President Niinistö on a state visit to the media in Austria. He has just said about this joint EU responsibility: what are we doing here in the regions of Syria, Iraq, in these refugee camps, and how to get those people in real need and in need of help to Finland? It is also good to see this scale issue: There are 2.7 million Syrians in Turkey. It's a chaotic situation there. My question to the Prime Minister is: have we really started to think about how the EU together is going to solve this problem, to get those in need here and at the same time to eradicate this trafficking and trafficking in human beings, so that there is no room for them to play?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u142	Mr President! The index was folded because of Lipponen's government 20 years ago. We need to raise the purchasing power of pensioners, and I'm sure the conversation will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u145	Then there is Mr Arhinmäki, and then there is the Prime Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u146	Mr President! Congressman Puumala criticized the fact that the same album rotates from one season to the next. Well, it must be acknowledged to Mr Puumala that he no longer has it running — namely, I remember when together we raised the question of training cuts. I also remember very well how every party said that last season too much was cut out of education, that we will no longer cut, and now the biggest cuts have been made in education of all time. Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä asked why the left is not prepared to increase state ownership in companies. He wondered that we were not prepared to develop state ownership in companies. That was a strange comment, because we have specifically stressed that the state should have more ownership. For example, when Fortum was sold part of it was EUR 1.6 billion, and since then Fortum has divided EUR 4.5 billion and on top
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u147	And then to Prime Minister Sipilä for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u148	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki, I meant to give up something to build a new one. If this world of thought is in common, it is good to continue from this point of view. Mr Haavisto, you brought up relations between Finland and Russia. I mentioned in the debate that the Minsk agreement must be respected and, of course, it also has to be done on the Ukrainian side, which is still very much in progress. During the trip, I also met Finnish companies who have shown special points by staying in the market waiting for the moment when the economy is starting to grow again. In my New Year's message to the STT, I said exactly that 'the contract is a ten-billion-dollar sustainability gap, with the necessary decisions being taken during this term of government'. And we will do everything in our power not to resort to these additional savings. Regarding the issue of day care: In my previous speech, I missed out on this Liper model, which is an hourly model. It has saved the municipality about half a million dollars a year and has reduced family day care fees. In other words, these good practices are worth taking up in all municipalities. Someone pointed to the war that this marching order is unclear. It is certainly not clear: the war ahead is going on, and the regional government will be following this march for three months. But when we leave to make a timetable from 1 January 2019, we have to make quite significant decisions this spring to get things done as planned. Savings: No savings are easy. It is not easy to save on education, it is not easy to save on development aid and so on. Our ability to finance current services has only been permanently reduced, and we must now do everything we can to break this cycle in such a way that we can save the Finnish welfare society. It is now central to these measures, which are currently being discussed by the social partners, for example, through competitiveness on the road to growth. Finally, Mr Heikkinen, on this joint management of refugee policy in the EU. Our common idea is that we can put the external borders in order, stop uncontrolled immigration and, for example, from refugee camps in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, and from there through the UNHCR, through the refugee quota, then controlled asylum seekers here in Europe. This is our common ambition, and Finland has already shown the advantage of showing 600 camps in Turkey out of this year's quota.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u149	It's time to go. — Minister Rehula for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u150	Madam President! Congressman Nylander asked me about the future of the emergency unit. The first regional event is on Friday of this week in Oulu. There will be five events where the network, localities, distances and level of on-call services will be viewed by area. When's the next exit? At the beginning of March, after the consultation on the field, we will be able to move forward. Secondly, Madam President, some people in this Chamber feel that the pace of social change is too high. It would be easier to discuss when you decide, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, whether this is too busy or whether we are busy. We are in real work — aiming for people at the heart of integration, freedom of choice, improved accessibility of basic services. Secondly, administration: Yes, we need a certain amount of administration. Less than 200 administrators will be
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u151	Let's get back to the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u152	Mr President! I am a little confused by that speech by the Prime Minister when he said that our ability to finance the welfare society has been permanently reduced. If we look at the fact that we have 330,000 unemployed at the moment and if we achieve a percentage reduction in unemployment, that means at least 600 million to adjust public finances. From this point of view, I find it hard to believe that the Prime Minister can mean that Finland's exports will not grow in such a way that the financial base of our welfare society will be strengthened, that new products and services will be available to the world. I would now like a direct answer, Prime Minister: what do you mean by this that there has been a permanent decline? I think it suggests you've given up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u153	Mr President! In these major structural reforms, it is quite clear that the reform of social and health care must be pursued with determination. But in the midst of these reforms, I do not quite accept that it is said that regional government reform is something to do with it. However, we in Finland are currently in a situation where the vitality of the regions needs to be exploited. To support that, we must give them power. The reform of regional administration is also a major issue of vitality policy. We must also dismantle unnecessary administration and unnecessary bureaucracy. We must move on to genuine European democracy and at the same time reduce the cost increase curve. In other words, I see that we must now move forward, both in the social reform and in the reform of the regional administration, with the timetable set by the government with determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u154	Prime Minister, you spoke here that you visited companies and that they are fighting every day for the legitimacy of existence. I myself have taken the same view, because unfortunately we live in a world of declining costs and markets, and that is a particularly difficult situation for businesses. However, my own view of the economy is that in such a situation it does not make much sense to increase the cost structure for these companies and especially for industry. We read in the Government Programme that during this parliamentary term the government will not increase the cost of industry. But looking at this debate on Caruna now, I will not interfere with that sale of Caruna or Fortum as such, but could it now be considered that the decision of the Energy Agency — which, in my opinion, is unreasonable — could be re-assessed, because the right to double funding granted to monopoly companies does not seem to make much sense in this economic situation, especially when we have companies that do not have investment needs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u155	Madam President! Here the Economic Assessment Council also stated that cutting policy is problematic and should also be able to use the revenue side. As far as this option of the SDP is concerned, we think, Prime Minister, it would be quite reasonable for some undertaxed financial sector to take part in these joint efforts at the same time as they say to the ordinary wage earner that wages are being cut and, at the same time, the unemployed, pensioners, families with children are being cut. It would be quite reasonable to make these choices of value. It is indeed a question of value choices, as has been said. What is confusing is that the government will again be able to afford, for example, tax cuts on millions of inheritances. The government can afford... [President MariaLohela :Mr Viitanen,do you speak on the contrary,so there is a vote. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u158	Madam President! To Mr Rinte, we have certainly not given up, but are now trying to make some structural reforms, so that we can move in a different direction and move in a new direction. Now that Mr Lindtman said that Finland needs a long-term moderate wage settlement, I quite agree with this, but it would be wonderful news when Mr Lindtman said that Finland also needs a culture of local reconciliation, which looks at the situation of companies, and also, as Minister Lindström said, that the status of staff is taken into account. That would be news today, which could be one of the things that will change in the future. When Mr Tuppurainen spoke here too, that as the atmosphere of the end of the world is, above all, on the side of the government, it is not true. Take a look at what the Prime Minister said in his first speech: making a contribution-based VAT, abolishing the distribution of income, reducing entrepreneurship, abolishing standards, making the local agreement. Now we've got a lot of work to do. Come with us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u159	Mr President! For this local agreement: There is now a risk that the government will turn this into a new law on forced labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u162	Mr President! I am here for the first time and I am surprised that we first discussed the educational cuts and the cut in subjective day care rights throughout the autumn and, apparently, once those laws have been adopted, we will continue to do the same all spring. I hope, of course, that the subject will change. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for raising the issue of regional experiments in Swedish. The councils of the Finns Party have made these initiatives by the municipalities, i.e. the municipalities have the readiness and willingness to experiment. Furthermore, there was also talk of immigration and the fact that millions of refugees and development aid have been cut in the world. Unfortunately, we are a nation of five million, and we cannot, of course, help all the millions with our money. Then I would have asked Minister Lindström what progress is being made in promoting the voluntary work of immigrants. That is where I met the Startup Refugees volunteers, and there are some obstacles, however, that could be made during the asylum period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u163	Madam President, värderade fru talman! We all know that there is a well-educated population in Finland. That is why it is very problematic that the government has now taken this line of surgery, which concerns our education and our universities. In this Chamber, in the course of this debate, our options have now also been called for and it has been said that we do not have a choice. Please read this good and smart option for the Swedish Parliament Group and the RKP. It also shows that these cuts do not need to be performed if you prioritize otherwise. And, Prime Minister, I give you full support for this EU policy. It is very important that Finland is now a constructive force in the EU looking for those solutions. Only together in the EU can we manage this situation well. And here we need to make solutions that respect the rule of law and human rights. I wish you every success in that work. And then here...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u164	Madam President! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this speech, because I really want to apologise. The Prime Minister told me a while ago that he was offended by the use of the word "twisted". I never intend to offend anyone in politics, even though I may disagree. The reason why I chose to use such a powerful word is a sincere concern about what is really happening to this social reform. This question has also been asked about the ranks of the governmental parties as to what is to be done with the war, because at the moment this province model and its law - making and the construction of various administrative structures around it seem to be the first in government interests. And in that sense we must wonder how we can achieve this state aid reform, on the one hand tax reform, which is linked to how the buildings and buildings in the municipalities will eventually be transferred to the social areas, what compensation will be paid for them. However, all of this is still open at the moment...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u165	Madam President! One thing is clear, and that is that Finland will rise out of the swamp only by working and trying and reforming. Less money has to do with more. The Prime Minister had a good grip on reform, as did the Minister of Finance. The world is changing fast, but one thing is not changing: the SDP stands on the brake. And, indeed, did I hear correctly, Mr Rinne, that the reform of social security must be re-evaluated? I'm sure Pekka with the patient and Sari with the nurse will get her hair back on. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u166	Mr President! The Prime Minister gave us the timetables for these reports. Keep these schedules. And secondly, keep Parliament very well informed of your own security policy intentions in advance and not later. Secondly, there was a good debate here — Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Vanhanen, as well as the Prime Minister — about these state companies and property. You have to learn from mistakes. There have also been good experiences in Finland: When the Veitsiluoto was sold to Enso-Gutzeit 20 years ago, a little more than that, the money was used to create an industrial investment, It's an acronym. It has now created tens of thousands of jobs and many good companies. Money has been made to create new entrepreneurship. Investment has been made, new good businesses have been created, new jobs have been created. You don't have to put that money to eat. Secondly, state ownership is not a bad thing. It depends on how government property is managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u168	Mr President! I will come back to this debate on the social pact when people have asked who is opposed and who is not. I don't think there's any of those opponents but that single congressman from the United States. I think the Prime Minister would now have a place to show leadership. You did very cleverly when you announced that you would freeze the legislation, give room for negotiations, calm the negotiating climate. A similar leadership would now be required of you in the sense that there are two different things: the social pact itself, but it is also the effectiveness of the social pact. And now I have a firm belief that it is possible to create a social pact when it talks about local agreements, it talks about the labour market round, including a wage settlement. But the requirement of 5% unit costs at once is too high a requirement, and the social partners are unable to extend it. Here I would like flexibility and leadership from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u169	Madam President! After all, Finland's well-being is based on continuous economic growth. When there is continued negative growth, of course, our ability to secure a welfare society will be weakened. There are two chapters mentioned here which are of concern: annual indebtedness, more than 5 billion, and then birth rate, less than 60,000. When we take these figures together, it means that for every child born, we take nearly EUR 100,000 each year — this is the kind of debt we put in the maternity package. We cannot go on like this for long, I think that is clear. I would also like to thank Minister Lindström for his job contract. It is close to job democracy and enables, for example, this working time bank. It is not possible to work at the workplace today, when it is not possible to agree on working time bank activities locally well enough — so that, to my mind, reforms are required.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u170	Mr President! I will return to the situation of pensioners. It is clear that, in the long term, we must get pension and earned income on the same line. And when it comes to what we have the leeway to do, I say — as the Prime Minister said — that if a social agreement is reached, then it will be possible to assess whether the EUR 1 billion tax reduction can be allocated equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u171	Mr President! This is a little strange now that it is being said at this stage on the part of the Assembly that this tax treatment of pensioners and workers must be the same in the long term. Why don't they put it the same? What's to stop it? How do you run out of money just for pensioners? You are telling us here that there are new rebates for millions of inheritances — new rebates for millions of heirs. And then, in the case of pensioners, you say that we do not have the money now, we just run out of money again, it is not possible. Your model means that if this is done — as Mr Rinne suspected here — through scales, then this difference will remain permanent, permanent pensions will be taxed more heavily than the wage income of the employed. This is a bad policy, and that is something to be pointed out to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u172	Mr President! We are talking about whether or not we are running out of money and how we can finance a welfare society. As the Prime Minister pointed out here, when we set up the second government of Vanhanen, the goal was to make a surplus of 1 percentage point every year in order to prepare for this ageing population. Since then there have been many negative or zero years — of course this goal has gone further. Yes, Mr Rinne is absolutely right that 1 percentage point of employment will make 600 million for public finances, but that is what we must, Mr Rinne, quite honestly recognise that last season we did not get any better than the employment rate. And why didn't we? Because we could not agree with you on ways forward. That is why local agreements are now being made, the probation period is being extended, the recruitment of temporary contracts is being changed, the readmission obligation is being made more flexible, the illness is being changed. All of these are done because:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u173	Now the overall time for this debate is running out, but there are still speeches for the representatives of Mr Kalli, Mr Arhinmäki — Mr Rinne has not asked, but I will offer one if he wishes to use it — and then for the Prime Minister finally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u174	Madam Speaker! Having heard the debate for about three hours, I would like to remind you that we are living in a situation where the prices of raw materials, the prices of oil, food and many of the items that affect consumers are clearly lower than ever before,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u175	Madam President! Prime Minister, you said we should give up something so that something new can be done. For example, Senate properties have properties in the centre of Helsinki that could be well disposed of, housing construction in the city centre and hence income. But at the same time, you are one of these top-notch projects to finance business sales. For example, the resuscitation that we strongly advocate and continue to support before the elections, that we are putting our tracks and roads in order, is a good thing, but my question is: when we have state-owned companies producing a return of 5 %, up to 10 % on capital, what economic sense is there in this situation to sell these companies, while at the same time five years' loans for such investments would be made at a fixed, minus interest rate instead of selling assets that produce year after year? Now, Prime Minister Sipilä, you have had good speeches, please listen to Mr Kääriäinen,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u176	Mr President! In my opinion, there has been a multigenerational and good debate, and there have been a lot of different dimensions here, perspectives that can be used to look for solutions to move Finnish society forward, to strengthen economic growth and employment. I think it is clear to all of us that seven weak years back have contributed to the fact that in these seven years there has been no increase in employment and economic growth. We may have quite a lot of disagreement about the means, but I believe that good cooperation and parliamentary preparation on key issues that go beyond the parliamentary term could find solutions that will then go well beyond these individual parliamentary periods and the power of individual governments. I hope that the government will really clarify its line in this regard as to how this parliamentary cooperation in these major projects can be carried forward in order to achieve lasting, lasting solutions for the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u177	And finally, Prime Minister, no more than five minutes from that podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u178	Thank you, Madam President. — Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for a good debate. First of all, I will immediately catch up with Mr Arhinmäki on this matter of Senate real estate. This is an idea that will certainly be taken for further processing. I would also like to challenge us that, if state property is released from some companies that are in a competitive market, not monopolistic operators, could the state play a role in developing, for example, an ict solution for social services, whether it could be in the form of intelligent urban transport solutions, whether it could even create a Finnish innovation bank, and so on and so on. It is difficult for me to accept whether or not the state could have something to build a new one in this situation. It cannot be that everything has been invented 50 years ago and we must hold on to it all and nothing new can and cannot be built. Well, has our financial capacity been permanently reduced? I believe that there is agreement in this Chamber that our sustainability deficit is about 10 billion. This is the task that we need to do, and these savings decisions are also linked to it, reform decisions are related to it and growth-enhancing measures are linked to it. In addition, we need to achieve a growth rate of at least 2% that we will be able to finance the remaining services in the future. Then the company's generation changes, which were criticised here. I understand that, for example, Mr Rinne has taken a strong stand in favour of face-to-face Finnish ownership during the last term. It is precisely SMEs that have been the ones who have employed people. I would not condemn in advance the measures that are now being applied for to facilitate the generation of companies. There is rarely talk of millions of holdings, especially assets that could be realised, but very difficult situations to transfer to the next generation when the property is in solid form, in machinery, in equipment, in walls that are difficult to realise. They were still asking about the local settlement. I fully support the group's work under the mandate. I support exactly as Minister Lindström also supports the work in accordance with its mandate. But I would like us to send out a clear, strong message from this hall that local reconciliation in Finland must take a bold step forward. And it must also be made to work in practice at the company level, because it has expertise as to what the local measures are, that we can improve competitiveness. This is an extremely important part of these reforms that we are doing. Then, as far as the war is concerned, I assure you that the war is progressing on its own path. If we are doing other reforms, it is not out of the woods. The provincial government is taking its own path, where decisions must be made on what tasks other than social welfare are transferred to the autonomous region. We must also reform the municipality, the tasks of the municipalities, and so on. It's not like they're from the development of mud. We are now undertaking many multi-disciplinary reforms at the same time, and decisions are taken in succession. They have precise timetables for what to do. There's plenty of reform to do. Finally, on the social pact: would less than 5% suffice? All I am saying is that the smaller the result, the smaller the impact on employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u179	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u180	Mr President! The so-called Nordic Law provides for cross-border enforcement of judgments and other enforcement grounds in the Nordic countries. According to the law, an enforceable bond, bill or check drawn up in Norway or Denmark will be enforced in Finland upon request. However, the enforcement of the said documents requires the application for enforcement to be accompanied by a certificate issued by the Ministry of Justice of the State of origin certifying that the document is enforceable. In both Norway and Denmark, the certification function is delegated from the Ministry of Justice to another authority. The Nordic Law on Judgments should therefore be amended in such a way that a certificate issued by an authority other than the Ministry of Justice is sufficient to verify the enforceability of the documents in question. A similar revision has already been made in other Nordic countries. Mr President! This inspection is technical and obsolete legislation would be amended to reflect the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u181	Mr. Speaker! I would like to thank the government for a very sensible — but sensible — legislative project, first of all, of course, because it is good that judgments are moving and payments are being paid and that there is the courage to conclude cross-border agreements, in Europe as a whole, and especially in the Nordic countries, when Denmark and Norway are at stake. At a time like this when you live in the midst of a recession, you cannot underestimate any movement, which encourages Finnish companies to expand their own business in our neighbourhood and further away and export. Perhaps this legislative project is also a small part of the smoothing-up of regulation and the dismantling of unnecessary standards and red tape. It is quite interesting that even a surprising number of Finnish SMEs do not trade — in Sweden, Norway, Denmark. Perhaps such projects will encourage them to move on from their own home village.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u182	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u183	Mr President! The Government has submitted a proposal to the Parliament to change the enforcement bar. The aim of the proposal is to simplify, speed up and make the enforcement procedure more flexible in a way that does not jeopardise the legal protection of the parties concerned. It is proposed to amend the procedural provisions to meet the requirements of modern e-services. The transmission of documents to the addressee would be possible, instead of a postal address, for a national electronic service system for communication between the citizen or the undertaking and the authority, i.e. a so-called electronic service account. The proposal relates to the digitisation of public services, which is one of the government's top projects. The provisions on enforcement sales would be amended to take account of changes in the electronic environment. Public auctions have increasingly moved to the Internet. The conditions under which the enforcement officer can deliver an electronic auction or other free sale are proposed to be mitigated. Instead of selling two companies, the bailiff could arrange three sales. In addition, the written control procedure would be speeded up. The proposal also includes a proposal to amend Article 11 of the Law on debt obsolescence. Its purpose is to clarify when a legal winding-up operation does not lead to a break in debt obsolescence. The proposal is intended to respond to the tightening financial situation of the enforcement agency. The financial situation of the enforcement institution will become more severe by 19 EUR 8 million compared to 14 because of the savings decisions already taken. This proposal has no budgetary impact; it is a question of the savings necessary to adapt the operation to the tightening level of the spending limits. The transition to e-services is expected to gradually achieve savings in postal costs of EUR 900000 per year starting from 19. The remaining, higher savings will be made in the context of the restructuring of the pending enforcement plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u184	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, ministers! During 2014, the number of enforcement debtors was 481,000. This is nearly 9% of Finnish citizens. Fewer than 60 per cent of debtors survive their debts. The draft law before us does not focus on improving the life situation of enforcement debtors, but focuses on enforcement procedures and administrative cost savings. Mr President! Very often it is not advisable for the person in the enforcement to go to work, because enforcement with interest takes up so much of the salary that the share of the salary will be lower than the income support. The current law on enforcement provides that two thirds of the salary after withholding is to be left unbleached. When the salary is very low, it is softened by co-regulations, which, however, do not have a major impact on the fact that enforcement very often destroys the low-income person's desire to earn a job and even drives people to life in the grey labour market. In order to get people out of the debt cycle and poverty and to promote employment in Finland, the share of protection needs to be increased. This could be resolved by amending the law on enforcement, for example, so that no more than one-tenth of the result of the general binding collective agreement in force would be subject to enforcement. This measure would send a message to low-income enforcement debtors that there is hope in their lives and that due to mistakes made, they do not have to suffer for the rest of their lives. The solution would benefit both the debtor and the creditor when those who failed to settle their debts start paying more rational contributions to their income. Correcting this would have a positive impact on the tax revenues of municipalities and the state, as well as lower income support expenditure. Now that the Minister is here, I ask: what are you going to do to improve the situation of these low-income enforcement debtors, and why did you allow the protective portions to deteriorate from the beginning of this year? You could have improved the lives of these people if you wanted, for power gives you the opportunity to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u185	Mr President! Representative Taavitsainen paid attention to the right thing. Yes, these protective portions of their income must be regularly monitored and seen as human and encouraging — the encouragement that the government primarily promotes. Perhaps I should like to ask the Minister of Justice myself: what is the question of whether we could think more about the expiry of the debt of enforcement? Fortunately, we now have a situation in which debts expire at some point and we are also getting rid of our sins in this sense. And, in fact, I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice what is involved in this whole, how is the positive credit register, that is, that we have a national register, which shows each person's debts. Has it made any progress? Yes, we should also do such educational and educational work so that people do not become uncontrollably indebted. However, debts must be paid, it is the basis of a market economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u186	Mr. Speaker! Representatives Tavitsainen and Kurvinen pay the right attention when looking at a private debtor. Both are important things. It makes me want to review what has happened in this development of the law on enforcement. After the recession of 91-92, Finland grew at a huge rate by the number of people who had been seized, and it was then discovered that our law on enforcement — according to the Swedish Båge model — was so old and stiff that we came to this day in several stages. I think this is the fourth stage, two or three stages have been made more flexible, legal certainty has been strengthened, it has been corrected and so on. I think that this legislative extension, which Mr Lindström has given us now, is very well suited to this situation, because we do indeed have as many debtors as Mr Taavitsainen said. It is apparent from the works of this law that there are a total of 536,000, of which there are about 55000 communities, and some 631,000 enforcement measurements — this is a huge number. I think there are a lot of good things here, because in the past there was only auctioning the procedure for the realisation of enforcement, and here, among other things through digital jobs, through the electronic procedure, is speeding up the various options and encouraging such free trade, including via the Internet. It is currently the norm and it is still being changed in this electronic direction. This is a very good way of doing so, and it also improves the practical capacity of the enforcement officer to act substantially. This has therefore become the main procedure, and even now this new one must, in particular, take into account the price, costs and time for the enforcement procedure available, so that it does not become such a long procedure, which ultimately leads to an auction, in which both parties are affected. This is also an important part of this debt obsolescence. In it, the content of the legislation and the case-law have in some way followed different paths, so that, on the basis of the decisions of the Supreme Court, in part also when voting, there have been solutions in which the basis for the limitation of debt differs from what was meant in that third stage by obsolescence. And this does not simply mean an advantage for the debtor or a creditor, but perhaps a little more so for the creditor, in that it provides precision as to when the debt claim is out of date. Tens of thousands of people are artificially fleeing so that that service cannot be passed on to them and, with various measures, try to figure out how the enforcement officer cannot get service to them. This specifies the procedure in so far as this notification procedure is facilitated: by strict compliance with the forms of legislation the service has arrived at. This, admittedly, justifies the creditor's legal protection even more, but at the same time reflects the debtor's legal security in that he does not try to strain and flee for a huge period of time, years, years, so that finally, at the last minute, he gets that information and that escape has failed and has destroyed man's chances of working again in a sensible way. I am very much in favour of this, and it is a sensible way of thinking about this reform of this phase of the enforcement cycle.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u187	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here, for example the previous very analytical speech by Mr Juhantalo. Could I say that we who sit here in Parliament are sometimes criticised for not going through things seriously and considering these legislative proposals. In my opinion, at least this debate, which has taken place here in relation to the amendment of this procedure and the amendment of the statute of limitations, has been far from complete. I very much welcome the fact that digitalisation is taken into account, that all electronic possibilities are now widely taken into account in this practice of enforcement. It certainly serves the interests of the State authorities, serves the interests of creditors, serves the interests of enforcement debtors. I hope that this digitalisation will proceed in accordance with Juha Sipilä's Government Programme and also elsewhere in the administration of justice and law, we will get video access to district halls, we will be able to manage and save money and expenses. Mr President! Not all Finns can survive in the credit economy that they are currently living in. Young and elderly people in particular, and otherwise vulnerable people, find it difficult to exercise self - discipline and perhaps control over their own indebtedness. On the other hand, all insolvency laws must maintain payment standards, and loose debt should not be supported. I would therefore like more legal and economic information to be included in all schools, both in primary and secondary schools. I share Mr Juhani's concern as well as Mr Taavitsainen's concern that we should be careful that the interest on enforcement, payments and too small contributions do not result in a person in debt ending his life and ending being a productive member of society. This situation must not lead to it, even though we must make sure that the debts are paid — even though someone on the left side of the hall might suspect it already in that private debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u188	Mr President! Indeed, very good speeches must be made by the previous speaker. In fact, that was where I got excited to think about something like that when one day I had a discussion about how difficult it is to get loans from banks today. It has been tightened up by the banks, probably for reasonable reasons. Well, there have been such situations that if well-managed people do not have savings, they will not get a mortgage without their own savings. With hard rents, you can't make it happen. It is another debate, but there is also something to think about, that people today are not getting a loan. Well, then, if you don't get a loan from the bank, you can easily resort to these quick loans, and many of them cause these payment difficulties. However, there are considerably higher interest rates. I always think it is good that these procedures should be streamlined. It does not seem to me to be contrary to the legal protection of the debtor and it is not a bad thing that processes are streamlined and rationalised so that, in that sense, I did not understand the connection when it was said why procedures should be made more sensible when it is not addressed. That content must also be addressed, but it must not be an obstacle to making that process more sensible. There is also concern that there is a situation in this enforcement procedure, for example, that if a person is on income support, he should never be employed, because if he has a lot of debts, he expects them to grow old because nothing goes on. I've heard such an idea once from one of Kela's officials that I wonder if I should go for 10 euros, so it would be... When we always talk about those incentive traps, this is just like an idea. Nor is it economically reasonable for us to consider that it is worth not going to work or to live on certain subsidies, that there is no need to shorten anything. But, of course, we also need to remember people who are in debt spirals that they will sometimes get rid of it. One is, of course, just with these interest rates: that debt with interest may be so huge that this person will never get away with it. Here's a lot of land for the minister to think about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u189	Mr President! There have been some very good speeches here. There's a lot of defecation disorders today, and more are coming all the time. After the recession of 91-92, we remember people who were then subject to enforcement: major tragedies, even suicides. There are many people today who are still in the enforcement after these years, and yet people should get on their feet and move on with their lives. There should also be some moderation on the part of society. The debt can also be renewed over and over again, and in principle a person can spend his whole life in this debt imprisonment. Of course you have to be responsible. When you're in debt and you're in debt, you have to pay it. It could also be a little easier to make this payment plan easier for a person to be included in this plan. There are a lot of people who say that it is very difficult and they have tried but they will not succeed in getting into this payment plan. I want to be a minister. Lindström asks if there is any way to make it easier, because it is good for society and the person themselves that the debt is paid. Even a minor default of EUR 5, even an accidental default, may even lead to enforcement and may even lead to case law. After that, there will be very high fees. It is pointless for the judiciary to deal with these issues; there should be some flexibility. The lack of bank IDs also causes many defaulters difficulty in obtaining information and even paying their bills.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u190	One more minute from the minister's seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u191	Thank you, Mr President. It's gonna be real quick. — — — — This was an important debate, and thank you all for that. So this proposal now focuses on this flexibility and this, let us say, digitalisation, but certainly on that Ministry of Justice side we have discussed more. A number of delegations have come to me with a message about these hedging shares, the status of the debtor, the statute of limitations on enforcement debts, have been discussing a positive credit register, but they are more of a discussion. Mr Kurvinen raised this payment ethic. So, in a way, we have this safeguard and, on the other hand, this payment ethic, and with these two things, we need to balance them in such a way that they are relatively at the right level. I understand that some people are really going through a lot, and the ageing of these debts of enforcement is one of the things I already have presentations on, but they may be more personal than the government itself. Of course, they must then be blessed through the government, whether they go through, but yes, I have thought about them and I take this very seriously. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u192	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u193	Mr President! I understand that this proposal from the government in question has already been discussed in committee, namely in TyV — and whether it was PeVi. This proposal proposes to amend the annual seamen's leave law and the health insurance law in line with the government programme's entries. It is proposed to amend the provisions of the Annual Holidays Act on working time and days equivalent to those of the Maritime Men's Annual Holidays Act so that annual leave on maternity, paternity and parental leave can be accumulated for a maximum period of six months. It is proposed to amend the provisions of the Health Insurance Act on the right of employers to annual leave allowances so that the entitlement to compensation would be limited to the period of statutory annual leave. In addition, it is proposed to amend the annual leave law so that, when an employee, official or official becomes incapacitated as a result of illness or accident during his annual leave, the first six days of invalidity would be days without entitlement to transfer of holidays. However, the employee, official or official who has earned at least four weeks of annual leave during the year in which the holiday was set would always be guaranteed the right to an annual leave of at least four weeks, regardless of the rules governing the ownership date. These laws are intended to enter into force on the 1st century. The President
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u194	Mr President! Last year, 55040 children were born in Finland. Less children were born last in the hunger years of the 1860s. The reasons for the fall in the birth rate are probably many: over the years, the size of the family has fallen, not everyone wants to have children, and in many families, children are postponed to a later stage because of their working lives. However, the situation of families is also reflected in poor prospects for the future and precarious working life. Uncertainty about one’s own livelihood and employment situation affects the willingness of many people to start a family. The strengthening of the labour market position of women, the improvement of equality in working life and the reform of the family leave system are therefore important objectives both for promoting gender equality and for family policy. Unfortunately, this government seems to be doing the opposite. Many of the government's labour market policy proposals will increase the uncertainty about the position of women in the labour market and increase the gender pay gap. If forced laws are implemented, these will hit particularly hard on women working in the public sector. Women work more often than men in fixed-term contracts, so they also suffer from the weakening of the status of temporary workers. In addition, with this bill, the government is now reducing the accumulation of annual leave from maternity, paternity and parental leave. As women currently spend more than 90% of parental leave, this proposal will cut the interests of women and mothers in particular. This government proposal states that the regulation currently in force, which guarantees an employee who is on leave an annual leave and, on the other hand, compensation to the employer for the costs involved, has acted in accordance with its objectives. Nevertheless, the government is now proposing to change this system with the sole aim of making savings. In the future, the period of annual leave from maternity, paternity and parental leave will be limited to six months for both parents. Up to now, women's maternity and parental leave have on average been on leave for ten months. The proposed change in working days from family leave would shorten the average annual leave for mothers during family leave by just under 40 per cent. Mr President! What, then, will result from this change? As a result, the annual leave for women on family leave will be reduced and the gender pay gap will increase. This also means that local government employers are put at a disadvantage vis-à-vis private sector employers. In the public sector, annual leave is provided for in collective and contingent agreements. These will not change with the amendment of the law, but in the future compensation will be paid to the employer only according to the maximum legal period of six months. For this reason, it is very possible that the cost-saving effects on the whole public finances will also be limited. The strangest thing is that, according to the government, this amendment of the law would contribute to a more even distribution of family leave and to men’s leave on child care leave. The logic of this argument seems to be that, when women's annual leave is limited to six months, it would encourage men to spend six months of their share of family leave in order to keep the combined annual leave of the family as constant as possible. This shows very little understanding of the problems of the current Finnish family leave system, one of which is the duration of family leave. As the duration of family leave remains the same, it is not likely that fathers would suddenly be more likely to be on family leave than they are today simply because of the increase in annual leave. By extending paternity leave, i.e. the period during which fathers can stay home with earnings-related money to care for a child, the opportunities for fathers to stay at home to care for their children would be significantly improved. The Left Alliance is in favour of moving to a model where both parents would have a six-month period in use and a six-month period in the family for which they could freely decide. Finally, Mr President, a more balanced use of family leave is one of the most important means of promoting the labour market position of women and gender equality in Finland. Unfortunately, in the field of gender equality policy, this government only has an impact on the statement of the Government Programme that women and men are equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u195	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the annual leave law and the health insurance law is not good and fair. The impact on equality between women and men is negative. Today, all family leave accumulates annual leave. The law is now being amended so that the annual leave from maternity, paternity and parental leave can be accumulated for a maximum period of six months. Cutting 40 percent of parents’ vacations from small children is quite unreasonable; families with children are known to be already hard. The proposal to limit holidays on family leave would be implemented by undermining women's interests, and pay differentials would also increase between the sexes. Increasing wage inequality is contrary to the objectives of equality of the Constitution. Article 20 of the European Social Charter also prohibits discrimination on grounds of sex. The proposal would also be applied differently to single-parent families. I do not think that Finland can be restored by reducing the resources of families with children. Families with children must be valued and supported. That is the only way we can raise the birth rate in Finland. I also wonder about the amendment of the law, which came into force only in 2013, that if an employee falls ill during his annual leave, he is entitled to postpone the holidays. The law has not even been able to carry out an impact assessment yet, and there is no evidence that the law has caused significant and substantial burdens on employers. There is also no evidence of abuse. Changing ownership to six days will also increase administrative costs for companies. This proposal should not be here right now, but at the negotiating table of the social partners. In order to create trust, all matters relating to the working life should be in a single basket for the parties to negotiate. This would contribute to reaching agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u196	Mr President! Here, the left-wing opposition is attacking this motion quite strongly, and I would like to raise a point. I am sure that the Government-Opposition and Parliamentary Group boundaries go beyond this concern about the poverty and problems of families with children and also concern about the situation at birth. Yes, it is a certain indicator of the moods of young and young adults at the moment. However, I would like to raise many good things that the government has done for families and is doing for families. During the last parliamentary term, when both the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance were in government responsibility, no concrete action was taken on the roots of the problems of families with children, that nausea, insecurity, life management. Now one of the government's top projects is the services of families and the assistance of families, and it is clearly accountable to a certain minister in the Government. Now we have also mentioned this competitiveness package, which was drafted by the government — and which hopefully does not need to be put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u197	Mr President! This is where Mr Kurvinen spoke about the sick families, and it is very good that the government is taking steps to improve the status of these families. However, it is worth bearing in mind when assessing the whole family policy of the government, that there is a great deal of weakening here that affects all Finnish families with children. This proposed change to the increase in annual leave is one, the increase in daily care fees is another, the reduction in the quality of day care is the third, the increase in the fees for afternoon and morning activities is the fourth, the abolition of the indexation of child supplements is the fifth, and these labour market solutions will be added. In my opinion, the government still has quite a lot to show if we are genuinely committed to improving the position of all Finnish families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u198	My final reply, Mr Taavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u199	Mr President! I would like you, Mr Kurvinen, to be able to concreteise what is the good family policy of this government, because you have also forgotten that it was the previous government which added to this home service for families with children, which is now taking place during this term of office, which is also a good decision made by the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u200	Mr President! Correct me, Minister Lindström, if I have misunderstood. There has now been talk of compulsory laws, and when I look at this section 30 of the bill, these can be agreed differently by collective agreements and in ways that improve the status of workers. The only thing that must not be agreed otherwise is in fact bad for the employer, which means that the employer will only receive its compensation for six months. That is what I want to review here, because I understand that this is not a compulsory law. Here are the TES and VES, which will be respected even if this law comes into force — not to give a false impression. Personally, I think that when this is personal, this 6 and 6 months, it may well be possible that it will encourage parents to share it. I can't find a discriminatory element here. Of course you can find it if you want it that way, but I can't. But now I want to say in this debate that we forget the word 'forced law' because this is not a coercive law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u201	Mr President! I don't know how exact a representative is. The sea, for example, listened to my speech, but I referred to the mandatory laws when it comes to how the government's labour market policy as a whole affects the position of women, and I see that this proposal is one part of it. This is not directly related to that entity. Then, what Mr Meri said about these TES, as I said myself, for example, on the public side, this is currently provided for in the TES, but the problem is that these compensations for employers will no longer be paid only according to this maximum legal limit, which means that savings will be made for the private sector, not for the public.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u202	Mr. Speaker! I would like to comment on that little earlier debate and this legislative project. What is the best way to put things right for families with children? The best way of doing so is to make Finnish public finances sound, to get companies to work in Finland, to get jobs for those young fathers and mothers. This is the task that was twisted in the spring of 2015 in the Parliamentary elections. In that twist, the present government parties gained the confidence of the citizens. In fact, the Socialist Party, among others, was not credible in this respect with its own programme. Four years was a chance to put these things in order. Now we are in this situation, cutting and pinching and snapping from all sides. And I would like to comment to Mr Andersson, whom I very much appreciate: Now that you are now a candidate for the presidency of the Left Alliance and a major influence on the labour movement, I hope that you will help the social partners and signal that you agree, then we do not need to push forward these laws on the competitiveness package. I hope, Mr Andersson, that you will make a difference to this that these labour market issues can be dealt with in a smart way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u203	Minister Lindström from the scene, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u204	Thank you, Mr President. — I shall answer the question directly. In other words, Mr Meri asked whether this proposal affected the content of collective agreements. It doesn't make any difference. Above all, when, as I said, this is included in the government programme, the amount of savings depends entirely on how they go into these sector-specific collective agreements. This greater savings target, or 150 million, is entirely dependent on how these sectoral collective agreements will go from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u205	And Mr. Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u206	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to respond to Mr Kurvise when he went directly in my direction. After all, the opposition has always wanted to be involved in promoting the creation of a social pact, because we see it as a considerably better alternative than this whole set of compulsory laws that the government has advocated. What we have done, what we have been trying to communicate in the direction of the government, is precisely to freeze the preparation of these coercive laws or to withdraw it completely, thereby also giving the social partners a signal that the government is serious and that the government is serious about promoting the creation of a social pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u207	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u208	Mr President! This proposal proposes an increase in the daily, criminal and Community fines. According to the proposal, the amount of daily fines would be increased to approximately double the minimum amount, i.e. one-and-a-half times the minimum amount. The amount of the fine is to be increased by around 25%, which would increase the maximum legal amount of the fine from EUR 200 to EUR 400. The intention is that the maximum penalty will be EUR 285 in future. The Community fine scale would be increased approximately three times, the minimum amount would be EUR 2500 and the maximum amount would be EUR 2.5 million. Community fines are mainly imposed on occupational safety and environmental offences. Changes in fines would also change the law on parking supervision. In addition, the treatment of income taxed abroad in the calculation of daily fines would be clarified. The increases apply to fines imposed both in courts and out of court. They apply equally to traffic offences, property offences, shoplifting and other offences that are subject to fines. The increases also apply to fines not only for imprisonment but also, for example, to penalties for drunken driving offences. The proposal therefore represents a considerable strain on the practice of punishment. Fines account for over 90% of all criminal penalties. The draft opinion was presented in a broad consultation. Let me be quite frank: the majority of the rapporteurs took a negative view of the proposal. However, the increase in fines is an indispensable element of fiscal adjustment. According to the Government’s strategic programme, public finances will be strengthened by an adjustment programme of EUR 4 billion. If the increases do not significantly change people's behaviour, the proposed increases are estimated at between EUR 53 million and EUR 56 million per year. In particular, the aim of the proposal has been criticised: to raise additional revenue for the State. However, the starting point remains clear: the system of fines is aimed at preventing crime. Fiscal considerations are not the purpose of the system. However, a well-established objective of criminal policy is also a fair sharing of harm and costs arising from crime and its control between society, crime victims and offenders. In this economic situation, it is necessary and fair for a greater proportion of the crime costs to be passed on to those convicted of crime. Furthermore, increasing fines is not the only tool in the government toolbox. Part of the revenue target is to be achieved by increasing automatic traffic control. This issue is currently being prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. As a result of these opinions, we have increased the proportion of controls still further. The increase in the fine has been mitigated from what was proposed in the draft of the consultation and the increase in the proportion of traffic control. The improvement of control generally affects crime more effectively than the tightening of the penalty, so the overall effect can also be on road safety. Some of the criteria for increasing the minimum daily fine and the Community fine are also related to the value of money. The minimum daily penalty was last increased in 1999. The Community fine scale has been almost the same since 95. The value of money has fallen, the cost of living and the level of earnings has risen. To the extent that the penalties are flat-rate, it is justified to increase them from time to time, in line with the value of money and the development of earnings. The need for an increase would therefore have been forthcoming in any case; only the size of the increases is now the result of the economic situation. Finally, there have been criticisms of the fact that they are particularly targeted at the poor and the marginalised, on the one hand because they concern the most high-income groups. When criticism rains from all sides, it can be estimated that the performance is likely to be balanced. The purpose of the daily penalty scheme is to measure the fine according to the solvency of the fine. This means that a person who is able to pay a fine can be fined large. On the other hand, the fines of the lowest-income group will not be increased proportionately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u209	Mr President! As we have just said, the proposal proposes to amend, among other things, criminal law. The amount of daily fines would be increased to approximately double, but the minimum amount would be one-and-a-half times. The fines were increased as of 1 September 2015. The amount of the fine was doubled, except for the highest amount of EUR 115, which was increased to EUR 200. In accordance with the Government Programme, an increase in fines is intended to increase revenue by EUR 20 million. This is possible if the intervention threshold for automatic traffic control is reduced in accordance with the instructions of the Police Government and the automatic traffic control is increased, as, for example, the Ring One has done — 35 new gears have just been installed. On the road, the traffic police do not necessarily follow the instructions given by the Police Government, but punish them according to the circumstances and the use of common sense. At the same time as he gives punishment, he looks the other side in the eye and, if necessary, justifies his punishment. At the same time, he also has to justify the punishment to himself. A professional traffic controller punishes a deliberate act. Even the Police Act states that the police should primarily seek to maintain public order and security, not by making as many fines as possible. From September to the end of the year, the police’s penalties and fines for traffic offences decreased. This may also be due to an increase in the number of asylum investigations and a reduction in traffic controls. This may also be due to the fact that more oral or written comments were made on infringements by the professional traffic controller. The aim of this proposal is to increase daily fines by an estimated EUR 33 million for the additional revenue target of EUR 48 million for this year and EUR 44 million for the additional revenue target of EUR 63 million for the following years. The purpose of the proposal is to cover the difference by increasing cost-effective automatic traffic camera surveillance and improving traffic speed control, in accordance with the Government Programme. Some of the objectives of this proposal can be said to be hoped for. However, there is nothing to indicate that there will be more resources for traffic control. If there are no supervisors, there will be no violations and therefore no money for the bottomless chest of the state. This year, 67 new policemen are likely to be assigned to the asylum investigation. I believe that in the spring more police officers, customs and border officers will be transferred from other tasks to the asylum investigation, as happened last autumn. These are also out of traffic control. I am talking here on purpose only about traffic offences, because more than two thirds of the actual fine is imposed on traffic offences. As mentioned in the proposal, the development of the criminal situation does not indicate the need to increase the amount of daily fines. Studies also show that the potential to influence the level of crime through tougher penalties is very limited. Much more is the risk of getting caught. Mr President! In the past, the main task of a mobile police officer was to provide traffic control on the main roads. Now, this is all you have to name. The main responsibility for road traffic control lies with automatic traffic control. The point-specific speed control used in Finland is not very effective, although it produces a lot of paperwork for the traffic controller. Last year, the automatic traffic control camera flashed over 650,000 times. This is partly due to increased automatic control and lower intervention thresholds in line with new police guidelines. Each vehicle running at a speed of more than 3 km or more shall be recorded. There will certainly be defenders of this intervention limit, but improving road safety is much more than tackling small speeding. I think that an automatic average speed measurement would be a much better way of controlling speed. It is more friendly for the driver and even cheaper than point-by-point speed measurement. With the increase in automatic camera surveillance in the future, hopefully it will be possible to control more than driving speeds. We have been able to do this elsewhere for years, but not in Finland, even though we are the world's world leader in technology. Punishments are being increased, although the effectiveness of the increases remains to be assessed. The increase is due to the need to fill the central government deficit, so the measure has little to do with the improvement in road safety. The best way to improve road safety is to increase the risk of getting caught. I believe that the fines for speeding cases should be more fairly proportional to the danger of the act, to the stated purpose and to the general harm. It would also be much better accepted by the police as a punishment and by the public.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u210	Mr President! As far as daily fines are concerned, I think that this increase is absolutely necessary. This has been really raised in 99 the last time, because only the conversion of the mark marks into euros was made in 2002, and it was then rounded down, so I think that is all that is necessary today. Of course, the fact that the penalty must be proportionate to the reprehensibility of the act and also to the principle of proportionality is something to think about, especially in these infringements of speed limits. I am glad that this will be a matter for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to consider. That leaves this aspect of humanity, which I think Mr Kulmala has just spoken about. If I actually drive a hundred and twenty miles in the area, I can still make a fine of EUR 250, but when I drive over a mile, even though I speak a little bit to my husband — well, I should not be speeding at all, but in any case — then we will be bounced from EUR 2500 to EUR 370 to EUR 700, and if there is such an MEP’s income, EUR 6,000, it will be 1870. Well, I'm not so worried about myself, but that 89 percent is quite an increase. In defence, it must be said that once everything has been cut and payments increased, this is not such a basic security issue as to allow crime to be committed as cheaply as possible. Well, that's one of the programs to buy them with a lump sum, but maybe it's not desirable right now. But, in any case, it is very good that this should be considered, because it is a one-off payment of a great deal, and the citizens have also been in contact with me that you are really serious. This lacks the human consideration that is always the case-by-case judgment of the court. But we'll see.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u211	Mr President! Yes, the amount of daily fines will be doubled, and that increase will be considerable, and it has become a lot of feedback. But it is good to remember that no one has to drive a mile an hour at speed. This is something that can indeed be influenced by itself, and when the larger bill has been paid, if you do not then change your traffic behaviour, then the State will receive income, and our country will certainly need more money. There has also been concern as to whether there will be less abuse than a traffic offence, but this increase certainly does not mean that we cannot also correct that other issue and will also impose higher sanctions on it later. That's what we here in Parliament are here to legislate for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u212	Mr President! As has already been said here in the last period, traffic control and penalties must be compatible in such a way that they correspond to the offence committed. And although the government's proposal is certainly to be welcomed, it must be said that it is a very sensitive issue when traffic is monitored and, if it starts to resemble the collection of money in any way, it does not necessarily give rise to respect for the law among the citizens, nor does it promote it, but it must now be admitted by our parliamentarians. This clearly has side effects. Now — I drive a lot, in fact, in my former profession, I semi-professionally drive a car — it is already apparent that people have a huge fear of poles. These traffic police are so alarmed that people are constantly holding back to 70 because the meter of many cars is lying up. I feel that this is becoming very difficult, so that this is now a little wrong legislation in the sense that we teach people to be afraid, as it were. If there is a smooth weather and there is no very dangerous traffic on the road anyway, then I do not think that this is a very good driving culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u213	Mr President! I am sure there are grounds for this government proposal, but I suppose the title of this one could be 'Sat the state finances in order'. Well, of course, you have to understand that you have to try there too to find money in the bottomless treasury of the state, but perhaps this is a matter of principle in the background, that nevertheless the primary purpose of the fine certainly is to increase the law-abiding and, on the other hand, to encourage good safety behaviour and not to try to look for different places in the state economy for the tilts. In this respect, there were good examples: for example, the representative: The sea pointed out that, of course, the amount of the fine should always be determined on the basis of the seriousness of the act and the failure to act, and such situations, one might say, seem disproportionate to the public's sense of justice, may very easily arise. In fact, I would like to ask when the Minister is here: did you say in that presentation, on which basis this is based, that a maximum amount should be removed from the parking fee for the idle infringement? What, then, is behind this idea, why has this been addressed in this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u214	Mr President! Let me give you a few more examples of transport, even though Mr Meri has already mentioned some things: For example, a minimum of 8 daily fines are normally prescribed for red driving. Even now, 8 daily fines would amount to EUR 2000 per month for a child-free person who earns EUR 233 net; in spring the amount would already be EUR 465. The figure takes into account the EUR 255 basic income deduction in net income. On the other hand, if you drive between 81 km and 83 km/h in the 60s, the standard daily penalty for this is set out in police instruction 12. In the case of example, that would now mean EUR 350 and in the spring, EUR 700. I find it quite unreasonable in view of what has been done. In 80 regions, speeds between 101 and 103 km/h normally lead to approximately 10 daily fines in police instructions. Mr President! I would say that the police will have a pretty big responsibility in that traffic if it has not been there so far, because if the police do not write the fine in that traffic, then no one else will. And if the police don't take the right stance on this fine increase, I don't know where the money comes from.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u215	Mr President! I, too, am concerned about many things in this proposal. That's what the minister just described, so there's no need to go over it again. But one thing has not yet come up in my opinion: how this system affects those who work on the road. A professional driver, in particular a heavy-duty driver, may be fined on the road for a matter not under his control, such as road-related vehicle infringements, or if the vehicle is damaged and then comes up on the road. When these fines are collected, the driver’s right to drive and, at the same time, the driver’s job gradually disappears. In other words, in the transport sector, the attractiveness of work is slowly beginning to strain this situation, that doing work may come on top of the wallet without it being influenced by itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u216	Mr President! I am not going to take a stand on these fine increases as such, but the fact is that it is reasonably easy for a card to dry out, so to speak, if you run a few speeding tickets that have only narrowly sided with the fine. For years this has been the aim of the Parliamentary Committee on Transport and Communications to achieve this kind of scoring system, which would specifically assess the seriousness of these violations, and on that basis would then be the solution as to whether or not to lose their cards. This loss of a card is not a small thing, because in many people it may affect how you are able to do work or travel on business trips. In fact, I would like to ask, now that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Transport are here: is this scoring system still under consideration, and is it possibly progressing? And could it be thought that, in this context, when these fines are being increased, this aspect would also be assessed, that we would find a slightly more reasonable alternative in the current situation to the extent to which this card is lost? And I certainly do not mean that if you drive wild speeding, you have to leave it once in a while, but it is precisely for these small companies that I find this situation a little problematic, particularly for those who drive a lot of kilometres.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u217	Mr President! My own intervention will, by chance, deal with the same issue as Mr Satosen. If a card goes out of three minor violations, then there is such a problem that if it leaves a Member of Parliament in Helsinki, for example, it does not affect the person in question’s life in any way, but if it leaves Ranua for someone who necessarily needs a car either at work or at other jobs, then the effect of its punishment is quite different from that of somewhere else in Finland, so that this too should be taken into account. I have the same question for both ministers: it has been said that the fines would be converted into an administrative charge and, as if the fines were to rise as compensation, that they would in themselves be such a punishment that people would be wary of speeding up, but if, especially in professional traffic, these unintentional minor infringements were to happen, then the card would not be so easy. Because it may have very big financial consequences. Then there's something else I'd like to ask you. When foreigners drive speeding here, for which a daily penalty is imposed, how do we collect this fine from these foreigners, because there is a slightly different system in Finland than in the rest of the world, where the roof usually settles, as I recall, at perhaps EUR 4000 or there? This is a little like this issue of equality. When this is the same European Union, how do we get the information of this person, because abroad people's data is not so simply being disseminated to the public, even because they are exposed to blackmail and terrorism? This is also a safety issue, and perhaps in the future we should also think about how open we are in Finland. If all information is available to all, it can lead to an unfortunate outcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u218	Mr President! When you drive speeding, you get fines, and that's right, of course. But if the speed drives only a little and — we know these bozos — flashes, it does. If the speed is very low and there will be three fines in the next couple of years, which will easily come to a person who is a professional driver, then it will be quite unreasonable if the card goes to dry, because there is a living and the family’s income is closed, and because it may not have risked anyone’s life. Fines are going up, fines are going up, and I think it is a little disproportionate, because the relationship between its act and the fine should be right, and now it is being somewhat oversized.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u219	Madam President! There have been very good speeches here, but there is no point in raising the fine. The tax authorities should have what belongs to the tax authorities, and the police should be charged with police duties, and there should be no confusion between porridge and grits. These disproportionate penalties: The guy — a wooden car driver — was fined for overloading. There was 200 kilos in the front car, or whatever it was, overload. There was a third fine and a card off. It's one log, you can put it in the load by accident. There was a two-month card off, no entry at all during that time. Now that this is being raised, do you think a little moped has gotten out of hand with something?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u220	Mr President! Again, I would like to ask Minister Berner: if a foreign trucker is speeding and gets a fine, will it be charged to him from the country of origin or will it ever be collected from this person?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u221	Madam President! I'll take it from here. The way the police behave. Personally, I've been fined twice on the bypass. When spring comes— There are bypass lanes on Viitasaari — the roads have melted, it is a perfectly good weather, immediately before the summer speed limits come, the rake patrols will be collecting money at the end of these bypasses. I'm sure there's a line of people in there and we can catch them and make criminals. With modern cars it is easy to cross between 10 and 15 kilometres, speeding. I have a Mercedes, too. It's very easy to cross it. I'm going to be a criminal. I'm going to be punished harder than some patrol out there for mass rape. It gets conditional, it's like a note, it doesn't matter in practical life. Fine's gonna have to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u222	Mr President! I just want to make it clear that you're not going crazy. If a person receives three fines for speeding within a year, he is likely to receive a warning, not even a card will be taken away. But if one of those penalties is a penalty and two infractions, then the card is likely to leave and it will be gone for at least one month and at most six months. The same is true if four of these penalties are imposed in two years, exactly the same procedure. Then I can say so much about these by-passes that there are quite a lot of deaths in them at the point when it is running out of bypass and the lane ends. That's why they have a lot of surveillance, and there's speeding, they say, in the 100's area of such a hundred and fifty-fifty drive very often when they're trying to get past that last car. When it hits and the other comes up against a hundred, there will certainly be dead ones. For example, last year the fatalities in North Karelia doubled. Some of them happened in bypass collisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u223	Madam President! Although it is not a question of fines, the issue of road safety, raised by Mrs Kulmala, is very important. When the Ely Centres have calculated that one death costs society EUR 2.5 million, then when it comes to calculating what they have paid, and we have had statistics since the 1950s, more people have died in traffic than in the Winter War — it starts to get to road safety issues. As far as I am concerned, when it comes to whether a motorway is profitable or not, at least a passenger car driver dies on the motorway in five, six or seven years, so it is the safest thing to do when there is no traffic on the road.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u224	Mr President! It has been nice to follow the debate between the MPs of the government parties on this increase in fines, when it is so strongly opposed by the government parties. But I agree with Mr Hakkarainen here. Klaus Bremer, a long-term member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, then told us in the Committee on Transport and Communications how, for example, speed controls are carried out in France: the better it is, the fewer police officers in traffic, the more the weather weakens, the faster traffic controls will be on the scene, and when it is the worst, then all the police officers on the road will be on the road. But we have just the opposite, as Mr Hakkarainen said: when it is a beautiful sunshine before Easter and the roads are melted and the speed limit of 80 is too high, then we go there and watch and catch that person. Of course, this government proposal is strange in that, as in the case of the correction of the central government deficit, it is intended to have a greater impact on this traffic behaviour. I would suggest that the Minister of Justice give such advice that when there is a bad weather, there should be very strict supervision, and when there is a good weather, then people could take on other tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u225	Mr President! Since the end of April, I have driven from Rääkkylä to Lauttasaari in Helsinki every weekend. I've never seen a police car before. I can tell you that at a bright time, I even recognize civilian police cars. With regard to these speed limits, I can say that many people hope that speed limits will change according to weather conditions. That's what I wish. But last Monday, when I drove through Lappeenranta to Helsinki, Lappeenranta had 5 cents of snow on the road and 100 cents of speed limit, and it had a variable speed limit. So it doesn't work. It should have been 50 miles an hour. In future, however, we hope that all speed limits will change according to weather conditions. But they must also act. At the moment, they don't work, even though there are a few of them on the road.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u226	Then Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u227	Madam Speaker! A good debate, and it must be said, in the interests of honesty, that this is as nice as having your underpants on backwards. But here we go. A few answers to the questions: Representative for Satonen: These are the error point systems you asked about. They are generally related to driving rights sanctions and the imposition of a driving ban on repeated infringements has already been differentiated according to the number of infringements. This regulation falls within the remit of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but it does not, of course, remove the fact that we are constantly discussing these issues with the Minister of Transport. In fact, the same applies to Mr Eestilä's question on the administrative levy. That is where I came from the Minister of Transport and Communications to ensure that there is an overall reform of the Road Traffic Act, which examines this issue, the consequences of traffic offences, and Of course, OM also participates in this work. One of the alternatives to the current infringement fine is to move on to this kind of administrative payment. No guidelines have been made yet, and then we will consider the different options in the working groups and then draw conclusions in this respect. Representative Essayah, idle business: This is a question of consistency, i.e. infringement of the provisions on idle service may be subject to a parking error fee of up to EUR 35 for the status of the fine. The maximum amount is at one time bound to the amount of the fine to be imposed on the corresponding act. Since then, however, the fines have been increased and further increased as a result of the proposal. Therefore, it is proposed that the parking fee for idle infringements will be the same as the fee for parking errors in the corresponding area, i.e. no more than EUR 80, depending on the city. In other words, there will no longer be a separate maximum rate for the idle infringement. Do you think there was another question I didn't answer? Perhaps this, which Mrs Parviainen has drawn attention to, is the case with these professional drivers, and the representative. The sea raised this human perspective. Of course, this is true. That's why I said it's kind of like having your pants upside down. When it comes to this economic situation, this must be acknowledged, and I acknowledged this in my speech that serious attention must be paid to this, that this is not just for money, even though the state is doing hard. — Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u228	Then, for Minister Berner, three minutes too, it's all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u229	Thank you, Madam President. — In fact, Minister Lindström answered these questions quite well, but I can still answer the question as to whether the fines imposed by a foreign truck can be recovered. In fact, only overload can stop the car on the road and demand payment right away; then everyone else will go after it. I must confess that I do not know how much of the payments will actually be made. As Minister Lindström has said about this whole consideration of the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, how these fine systems could be made administrative costs in part when it comes to professional drivers, we have it under investigation and we will then return to it with the reform of the Road Traffic Act. Of course, road safety is our main concern. We have had a very bad development in 2015. From that point of view, we are now looking, both in the context of the road law and in the context of the reform of the road transport law, at the way in which road safety can be improved. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u230	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u231	Madam President! This is a proposal from the government to the Parliament for a law amending Article 6a of the Law on commercial goods transport by road, i.e. the so-called cabotage provisions. There is a cabotage code in force in the EU that allows three transports within seven days of the arrival of the car in Finland. At the moment, we have a so-called Finland supplement for this cabotage regulation in Finland, and it allows ten transports in three months. In addition, a rule has already entered into force in 1992 under which, after a 100 km sea voyage, a container or trailer may be transported up to a distance of 150 km. Now, in this proposal, this will remain in force and otherwise would be in the process of becoming subject to the regulation required by the EU. As far as the EU is concerned, it is a regulation which in itself does not allow much national room for manoeuvre. We have received a so-called well-founded memorandum on this this issue this summer, and in EU-MINVA the government has taken the view that from the government’s point of view, Finland’s overall interest is not to take the matter forward to the EU Court of Justice. Finland is in favour of free trade. Finland also supports fair competition and the conditions for fair competition. There is good reason to worry about how our freight transport and truck operations can cope better with competition and how we can work to ensure that cabotage does not cause additional damage to our own industry and national entrepreneurship. If we look at what the Commission has seen as a whole in 2014: 39% of cabotage is driven in Germany, 29% in France, 3% in Sweden, 2% in Denmark, and Finland together with 15 other Member States accounts for 3% of cabotage. According to Eurostat, cabotage accounted for 0.4 per cent of the tonne-kilometres in Finland in 2014. In practice, it means 86 tonne-kilometres in Finland, and Finnish entrepreneurs drive 250 tonne-kilometres abroad. How, then, could better supervision be ensured when there has been concern that the increase in cabotage would give us more opportunities for the informal economy in Finland? The best control is definitely in Customs and ports, and in 2015 Customs has carried out a total of 86078 road safety inspections on heavy goods vehicles. In the same context, licences have also been revised. In this context, 24 suspicions of illegal cabotage have arisen. The police, on the other hand, have investigated five to ten cases of illegal cabotage in 2015, which is an average estimate. It is clear that we also need more resources for the police and Customs. In fact, heavy traffic control courses have been organised in 14 and 15 years, and traffic control and crime prevention in cooperation have sought to ensure that technical roadside checks on overload, driving and rest time checks and vehicle weighing are adequately carried out. Indeed, these control measures have increased by 1.5% by September 2015 and have increased the total number of revelations by 10%. At the same time, care should be taken to ensure that adequate obligations are imposed on the law on subscriber liability in order to ensure that cabotage does not arise on an illegal basis. The digital transport document requirements are to be considered to be tightened up, and we must also ensure that the foreign freight driver can also participate in our toll and thereby contribute to our infra-investment. A car can definitely be arrested for overloading, but not otherwise. It is also important to ensure that we continue to monitor the situation in the EU. The road package is still under construction and is likely to be exported throughout this year, even though it will already be the first documents to be discussed in February and March. There will also be possible new approaches to cabotage. Here, Mr President, my motion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u232	Madam President! The proposal repeals Finland's own definitions of cabotage transport and the temporary nature of operations. I personally do not think that change is necessary. Cabotage traffic is intra-EU transport by means of a vehicle registered in another country. For example, an Estonian vehicle arrives in Finland and unloads its cargo here. After this, the entrepreneur may drive three vehicles in Finland before the driver and his driver have to leave the country or at least go outside our borders. It is currently difficult to obtain reliable information on the amount of cabotage in Finland. The majority of cabotage takes place in ports and ports, so the information on this is available at least at Customs. Current definitions in Finland limit cabotage compared to practices in other Member States. I think it's good for the whole thing. Removing definitions would increase cabotage transport in Finland, and it is all off the Finnish transport operator. As cabotage increases, it is expected that Finnish roads will be filled with foreign vehicle combinations, especially in Eastern Finland. They are transported by underpaid foreign drivers for a few hundred euros a month. In transport companies, wage and fuel costs are the largest single item of expenditure. Finnish transport companies cannot compete with foreign companies in these matters. In the future, there will be a risk that many Finnish companies will have to quit and thousands of jobs will be lost abroad. At the same time, the problems of the black economy are multiplying. By changing the definition, the grey economy on the rubber wheel will increase further and its rejection will probably be included in the Government Programme. Of course, it is clear that the amount of the black economy in transport also depends on the number of heavy traffic controls. At present, the risk of capture is low and there is no light in relation to it. For example, last year, in 2015, the course of heavy traffic control was not organised at all according to my information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u235	Madam President! Indeed, the government has brought to Parliament a proposal to abolish national cabotage regulations, even though at this stage the Commission has only challenged these Finnish national definitions with this so-called reasoned memorandum. And now, as a savant, we must use this verb with "smokers": the government is now babbling about the dismantling of these national regulations and is possibly causing unpredictable effects on the domestic transport industry. This cabotage, i.e. the definition of temporary and transport within the territory of another country, has its own definitions in the EU Regulation, and Finland has therefore wanted to clarify them by means of national regulation. It is precisely this definition of transport and this definition of temporaryity that is missing from these definitions of the EU regulation, and that is why Finland has made them its own definitions and interpretations, which are now really being challenged by the Commission. According to current legislation, no more than ten transports may be carried out in Finland within three months by the same car, and then this definition of transport is that one transport is considered to be unloading a load. We must remember that there are many EU countries that also have such national definitions. The Commission's 2014 report on the freight market, which is also referred to in that draft law, has found that national legislation and definitions in the EU countries have become a patchwork, with adverse consequences for the internal market in road freight. According to its own announcement, the Commission intends to adopt this so-called land transport package in early 2017, and it will certainly set out not only this cabotage but also driving and rest periods, possibly social legislation — although I know from experience in this House that every time it is touched, it can become a major problem — and then, on the one hand, these effects, and then, on the other hand, the Eurovignette is likely to become some guidelines. In that sense, in my view, it would now be extremely sensible to wait until we see how the Commission is going to align these matters. Of course, the Commission is hardly taking them in a tighter direction, but Finland should take advantage of this time and wait until then, which is the common line, because there are problems and fears in many other EU countries as well as in Finland. In that sense, I would suggest that: Finland could well not do anything now, first of all, and, secondly, even if the infringement procedure started, it would take so long that this road transport package could be completed by then, so that in that sense Finland would not be taking the risk here. And, of course, we can always appeal to the Commission and say that we are now waiting until the road transport package is complete and then we will see where we are going with these movements, which would make sense then to make the reforms we need, in accordance with the guidelines set out by the Commission. This government amendment will certainly make it more difficult to compete with Finnish transport companies, accelerating the black economy of the transport markets. Here Mr Kulmala has already pointed out that it is quite difficult to control these regulations at the moment and it is very possible that they are already being violated quite a lot on the Finnish roads. And, of course, there is the risk that these companies from lower-wage countries will then increasingly fail to comply with Finnish labour law and pay, even though cabotage is required, and he will always eat the bread of his honest Finnish entrepreneur. Road freight transport is a major taxpayer, and in the sense that, as we have just seen, through these fines, even small fines, the state finances are being fixed, there is now a much greater chance of filling up the state treasury than small fines. This government proposal has been opposed by representatives of the transport industry, both employers and employees. I think it was pretty good that such unions as SKAL, ALT and ACP found a common note and sent out a joint appeal: in my opinion it is already so historic that it is worth respecting for that reason alone. Of course, now that we think that these negotiations on social pacts are underway, But I really hope from the Minister that this is not a matter of progress, but of waiting in peace, let us see what the Commission will do later on in this road package.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u236	Yes, an excellent speech from Mrs Essayah and also from Mrs Kulmala, was both the voice of the policeman's experience and also the voice of the former European parliamentarian. That is exactly what Mr Essayah said should be done. And this is what the last government Minister of Transport Risikko did. He did not bring this proposal to Parliament last season because this EU solution is coming in 2017. Why do we have to rush this? This is a miracle. As Mr Essayah said, SKAL, the Automobile Employers' Association and the ACP have jointly submitted an appeal, and we all know that if this cabotage opens up, then, let us say now, Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian cars will come and take over the Finnish market. Last summer in Seinäjoki's Tango Market, an entrepreneur in this sector told me that if this went through, he would put the whistles in a bag, there would be no chance of surviving in the future. And in view of this — this is a direct quote from this petition: "Even nearly half of the turnover generated by domestic road haulage is returned to the State in the form of various taxes and charges. It is estimated that the industry will pay around EUR 2.7 billion back from the turnover of EUR 6 billion and employ 100,000 employees." And after we've shut down the mobile police last season, who's gonna watch them over there: cartoons, weights, TES, liquid fuel? There's no one on the road. As Mr Kulmala said in the previous case, there is nothing there but these tin cops. I would now appeal that this matter should now be left on the table and then returned to it in 2017. However, it is still a matter to be resolved in this Parliament. This is going to the Committee on Transport and Communications now if the same spirit were to be found there, which was earlier in the Committee on Transport and Communications, that when one finds out something that is not so acute, then one could fail to fill it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u237	Mr President! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The SDP absolutely does not accept the government's proposal to repeal these definitions of cabotage from Finnish legislation. Cabotage traffic refers to traffic within Finland which is temporarily carried out by a vehicle registered in another EU or EEA country. Just over a couple of years ago, the definitions advocated by the ACP and transport companies were introduced into the current Finnish Freight Transport Act, and now the government is already dismantling them. This is a fatal blow to the Finnish transport industry, which has been defended by drivers and entrepreneurs together. This proposal will make Finnish skilled heavy-duty drivers unemployed, and this will increase unemployment spending in the state and reduce tax revenues. It seems that the government has turned its back on the domestic transport sector. Why would you do that? I am also very surprised at the turn of the coat by the Finns, because Mr Soini, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, presented the matter to the Committee of Ministers. Why do Finns want to disengage Finnish drivers? I believe that Finland should defend our national legislation if necessary before the Court of Justice of the European Union. This is what the previous government of the country was ready for, and the present one seems to be not. Contrary to what Minister Berner has said publicly, Finland is not likely to be at risk of retroactive fines or liability for damages. I believe that this is irresponsible intimidation from the Minister without a basis for truth. Is this the reason for opening up transport to foreign competition and only promoting the interests of large companies? Ordinary Finnish small and medium-sized transport companies now need defenders. I would remind you that in Finland the driver, including in cabotage, must pay wages in accordance with Finnish labour law and the collective agreement of the general-binding truck industry. Unfortunately, this is not being done, and companies from cheaper EU countries are acting in violation of Finnish labour law. This leads to two unequal markets in road freight transport. With its proposal, the government is thus opening up the market for the shadow economy. There have already been foreign trucks at the bottom of the ditches, driving in slippery weather without snow tires. This proposal involves a major risk of a deterioration in public road safety, including the control of heavy traffic as a result of the abolition of the mobile police. I would ask you, Minister, to take seriously the message of the European Parliamentarians in Finland, that we should not overturn cabotage, but that we should defend Finland's national regulations and jobs. This would not even have surfaced if Trafi himself had not been active in the direction of Brussels and raised a sleeping bear. Now this show should be applauded back to hibernation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u238	Mr President! Minister! We are talking about an area in which my heart is especially involved, because rubber wheels made it possible for my childhood home to have bread on the table and I really want this to be possible in several Finnish homes. We in Finland have been fighting for the conditions of the domestic transport industry for years and against EU cabotage legislation. That is why it is now a great pity to see how easily this modern government will give up on this issue. The story tells us that Minister Berner and the Ministry of Transport and Communications would have liked to take forward the current line in Finland, but this time UM woke up again to the traditional pain of doing almost anything at the expense of Finnish entrepreneurs and consumers, fearing that ever-lasting European Court of Justice. So what's this all about? We are talking about the bread of hundreds of hauliers and thousands of workers. This decision allows the bread to be eaten more and more by foreign operators. If such a proposal is progressing, the government should in particular ensure that everyone plays by the same rules. The liberalisation of competition does not even benefit transport customers, because labour-intensive activities have the same labour costs for everyone, because foreign operators should also comply with collective agreements. It would therefore not be possible to compete, at least fairly, at the price. It is, then, quite different how you can control this — when you listen to the field. It is appropriate to ask how the government intends to ensure that working conditions are genuinely monitored. We must remember that the resources of the supervisory authorities have been the subject of severe savings during the previous parliamentary term. It would now be essential to secure at least sufficient resources for health and safety at work and the fight against the shadow economy. The cabotage decision now in our hands is increasingly challenging our traffic control, which may have been weakened even further since the abolition of the mobile police. In particular, it will be necessary to invest much more in the monitoring of heavy traffic in the future. This requires not only sufficient resources but also the development of cooperation between the various authorities. Mr President! It reminds me that once again the government’s proposal makes one wonder whether the proposal has been considered fully and adequately. This proposal, too, is at its worst a blow to the government's employment objectives — and they are not just the government's employment objectives; it is just as much the opposition's concern that we get jobs for people. The real and serious threat here is once again the loss of hundreds of jobs, which has already been revealed in this Chamber. However, the transport sector is an area where employment could even be increased. All that is needed is for the government to be involved. It is regrettable that the government has now gone in the wrong direction in this transport and employment policy, and this proposal does not in any way support the 5% competitiveness leap that the government is aiming at here today. Mr President! The government's approach to completely abolishing national legislation is unsustainable and, in my opinion, poor lobbying. Is it necessary to completely abolish national legislation instead of changing the definitions of legislation or referring the matter to the EU Court of Justice? The Government has now made a valuable choice, and this should be discussed in Parliament. The value selection is also for two-storey entrepreneurs. In their opinions, industry generally supports change in transport costs to save, while subcontractors are often small and medium-sized enterprises, to whom the risks of change are transferred. Mr President! I hope that this proposal will still make sense to us in committee. I would like to remind you of what has also been said here before a few other speeches that road freight transport is a major tax collector for the state. The industry pays almost half of its turnover to the State as taxes. This change will not result in cheaper transport to Finnish industry or trade unless the cost of transport is based on the violation of Finland's mandatory labour law. In his excellent speech, Mr Essayah made it very clear that we can, if we wish, wait for the Commission's line and only then proceed with this. I hope that Mr Berner listened very carefully to Mr Essayah's speech, as did others, on this signal, and that we could move forward with thought-out steps on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u239	Mr President! I am concerned about the common rules for Finnish and foreign hauliers in our country as to whether they are proportionate to cabotage. The Minister has referred to measures that are possible to improve the competitiveness of Finnish operators, and there has been talk about, among other things, road charges, tyre requirements. I would really like to ask: would these possible rescue measures come into force at the same time as this free competition would begin? It's really important that they go together. Then I would say here when there were doubts: yes, the Finns of Peru Under the leadership of Soin, national decision-making powers are always defended if possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u240	Madam President! I think this is so important that I came here to the floor and did not speak in my own place. I already asked a written question about securing the control of cabotage on 12 November 2015. I asked what measures the Government intends to take to ensure the supervision of professional heavy traffic in Finland and what measures the Government will take to monitor cabotage traffic. As far as the control of cabotage is concerned, the minister did not reply at all with his experts, or the answer in the article is not very understandable. Control of heavy traffic does not fall within the specific competence of every police officer, border guard or customs officer. Effective control of heavy traffic requires professional traffic controllers and continuous maintenance of professional skills. The police, for example, carry out controls on heavy traffic as part of other traffic controls. Ensuring adequate skills for traffic controllers through extensive national and international cooperation would enable professional heavy traffic control to continue to be ensured. This is not in sight at the moment, as I have already said. The only thing that can be achieved by this temporary reversal of the definitions of cabotage is the loss of competitiveness of the Finnish transport operator and the increase in the black economy. For example, the manipulation of the tachograph is becoming more widespread. Very few even know, even in this Chamber, what it means. Now that the heavy traffic control teams of the mobile police have disappeared, no one is monitoring this effectively in Finland. Of course, there are some supervisors in Finland, but there are fewer than ten effective supervisors. Most of these offences are just found in a foreign vehicle, so I would like to place particular emphasis on foreign combinations of vehicles, not just because I am a representative of the Finnish Parliament. Mr President! Finland has the possibility of using national regulations in this area, which I believe should be used. The grey economy is also a problem for the Finnish economy more than the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u241	Madam President! The European idea is that national legislation supports the European system, and I very much understand the pressure that the minister and ministers have now had on our legislation to be in line with EU law. However, this representative, Mr Essayah, described this European patchwork, which is what it is now, which means that the various European countries have a very mixed picture here, and we now know that this timetable is expected for 2017 this land transport package. From Northern Finland’s point of view, I have wondered whether this timetable is now right for us, whether it would be appropriate to wait for the Commission’s package before going to correct and reflect on Finnish legislation for the synchronization. What if this time we were not the kind and obedient EU citizens and were little rebels?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u242	Madam President! This government proposal, based on EU legislation — or, indeed, what has brought the government's proposal here in the Chamber — has indeed produced a great deal of debate and concern and criticalness, particularly within the transport sector and within heavy-duty drivers. There are a great many of these concerns, and of course they also raise a debate, including how to secure the control of heavy traffic now and in the future. During the last parliamentary term, the mobile police, among other things, were abolished and this concern remains. Of course, this government proposal raises questions: How can we safeguard the future of Finnish transport companies in the future? How to ensure that domestic and foreign companies comply with the same rules of the game? Yes, cabotage control is a key element in creating a fair competitive environment. I hope that, and I am sure that we have already considered, the means to do this will be sought. Then there is how to monitor the market situation and how to take the necessary action in the event of market failures. In my opinion, a possible way of securing domestic heavy traffic is to have legislation here in Finland, which, for example, imposes a winter tyre on heavy traffic, and then controls it so that all trucks are of equal value. And, of course, I personally hope that the Eurovignette will also be considered and that it will be possible to sharpen and electronicise the transport document requirements. I personally hope that, now that this goes to the Committee on Transport and Communications, a very thorough work will be done there, all the experts will be consulted, our meps will also be consulted there in the expert hearings and the bill will receive its due consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u243	Madam President! This cabotasia has been very much spoken of, and the last time Iiro Lehtonen had a good and proper debate on the subject on the morning morning TV with the Chairman of SKAL. In it, both parties were concerned about the future of Finnish transport companies and the possible effects of this possible dismantling in Finland. Here, representatives Essayah and Kulmala have made excellent speeches in painting this threat. There is a lot of truth in that, in particular, it is almost impossible to carry out this surveillance in Finland, because there is no mobile police at the moment. It was interesting to hear that the 2017 Commission's policy is coming up. Could this be an opportunity to postpone this decision-making process and listen to the Commission's approach and then proceed accordingly? As regards this infringement procedure, SKAL has argued that this matter should be considered to be closed. I don't know where it's going, but you could imagine that it would give us more time and take advantage of it in a positive way for Finnish hauliers. After all, there is a risk of an increase in the shadow economy and a difficulty in controlling it. I hope that this issue will be well dealt with in committee and that, at that stage, we will be able to address the issue of tyres, fuel and tax issues that have already been raised here, how wages will be paid to these drivers if foreign drivers arrive, at what stage will the road tolls be introduced in Finland. There are good elements here. An interesting presentation was also the suggestion of Mr Essayah that, if the ACP were to be involved in this matter, it would be possible for him to reach a social agreement. That is something we need to think about here in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u244	Madam President! Here is a typical example of such legislation that is brought to the parliament, where overzealous Finland pre-emergingly seizes something without any real need or pressure on it. Since much has been said about this idea that Finland should be more in the interests of Finland in the EU, now suddenly Finland is in favour of the interests of all other EU countries at the expense of Finland. There is no real need for this zealous change in the law that is now taking place. Although these threats are drawn here, these threats are, however, of such a nature that they are as unrealized as it were. I think the excellent speech was made this morning by our left-wing MEP, Merja Kyllönen, on this programme, which was on the morning TV. He said very simply that no one in the EU would have paid any attention to this issue if Finland had not raised this issue itself. I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u247	Madam President! There's the representative. Mr Laukkanen made a good speech, but he told me that there was no winner here. Of course, we have to admit that this is a Finnish business winner if we can make transport prices fall radically. But I myself am not one of these people who would like to do it at the expense of Finnish transport companies, but with some other way. That debate must therefore be moved back a few decades after Finland joined the EU. We then hoped that the labour force and things would move freely across borders, and that is what this is all about. Then do we want a cheap labour market here? At least I myself would think that I would defend the Finnish transport operator and the transport worker for as long as it is possible and by legal means it can be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u248	Madam President! That is exactly what Mr Kulmala said, and I agree. I would just like to point out the competitive situation of Finnish hauliers: Already at the moment you go almost with inner tires over there, it's as competitive as it can be in this country, as tight as it can ever be. There are a lot of international players here, big chains that have come here. They have also purchased Finnish transport companies to enter the market. Now if you bring this kind of wild traffic into the crowd, then we'll have big problems here. As many speakers have said, no one is able to monitor this, that is the big problem. Even if it were decided that this would be carried through, no one would be able to control it with what tax cards and payrolls are then driving around here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u249	Mr Pakkanen's speech made a final contribution to this matter. While Leena Luhtanen was Minister of Transport at the beginning of the 21st century, cars were taken to Russia through Finland madly, tens of thousands. It was for tax reasons, and one of the ports was Hanko, through which much was exported. Russian trucks crossed the border, had oversized tanks, never refueled on the Finnish side. They had their lunches with them, and they visited Finland and took the cars back to Russia. All that left for Finland was pollution in that job. Now, of course, there is a somewhat similar situation on this issue, even though Russia is neither part of the EU nor part of the EEA – now there are Estonian cars. They come with their own fuels, their own collective agreements, there is no way a Finnish entrepreneur can survive. This means the loss of hundreds of thousands of euros to everyone and the unemployment of thousands of people. In that sense, I would argue that there is now a national interest here, and not a party-political border, that this could be considered there in the Committee on Transport and Communications, as Mr Essayah suggested, that we should look at this situation in 2017 and then take a decision, as the EU then requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u250	Madam President! To Mrs Wallin and, indeed, to Mr Laukkanen, I would say that there is a national interest here for all of us as a wish and that we want to safeguard Finnish entrepreneurship and, in this case, the future of transport companies and also the future of drivers, that they have work to do. Certainly that is the national interest, but the means by which we can secure it in this situation must be sought jointly. I personally hope, as I said in the previous speech, that there will be a very thorough discussion in the committee on how to proceed with this. And just as much as I would like to say that when we talk about European transport companies and Finnish transport entrepreneurship, there is a big difference that these companies in Europe are much bigger. This is particularly about companies with 1 to 5 drivers, particularly those relatively small companies, which are able to secure their future. They will certainly be able to succeed in the future, but how small and medium-sized Finnish transport companies will succeed in the future is what this is all about. I personally hope, as I said, that this matter will be considered very carefully in committee as to whether we will find ways of doing this. In fact, I would like to conclude by asking the honourable Minister: It has now been said at the mouth of more than one representative that this could be considered. After all, this issue has been on the table for many years, so that in Finland we have the opportunity to take this issue to that level of the EU for further consideration? And is it possible that we could not have this legislation in place?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u251	Madam President! Representative Wallin set a good example here, trucking, while at the time trucks were transporting cars from Hanko and through the port of Kotka to Russia. Finnish hauliers were strongly involved in it at the beginning, and then, when the job was accelerated, you had cars in the Russian register shortly. But the truth was that there was a large Finnish transport company behind it, which transferred all its equipment to the Russian register and then used a Russian driver. The Finnish entrepreneur won, but the drivers were drivers in the neighbouring country. Personally, I do not hope that this type of business will increase in Finland, because this means that only large companies will succeed and once again move that activity abroad and foreign drivers will come here. And I would also like to stress that there is once again a difficulty in controlling it. How do we guarantee that these drivers have been hired according to the Finnish wage level? I think we can all honestly admit that it certainly is not when it comes to doing so. That's what it's all about, and this is a very big question. I certainly hope that, during this committee debate, as many parties as possible will be listened to and we will look at these matters many more times to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u252	Mr President! With the EU, free competition is good, but it also has these drawbacks. And this is one thing that is difficult. I thank the Minister, the morning programme had a very constructive and good debate with you. I would now like to make it clear that this – and this has been discussed for a long time, last spring there were these truck demonstrations on the subject – has been prepared, and Mr Soini has had to present this, but he is certainly not behind this and he has not invented this. This situation was already well prepared when this came to light.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u253	Then to Minister Berner for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u254	Madam President! Thank you for this debate. As a long-term family entrepreneur, nothing would be closer to my heart than the success of a Finnish family business. Nor is anything closer to my heart than the success of Finnish entrepreneurship. Nor is there anything closer to my heart than that I stand behind even the difficult things they make me do. This has been the EU-MINVA policy. And as you said, when Finland is threatened with sanctions or court proceedings, preparation is always the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It remains for the Minister of Sectors to implement the decision taken at EU-MINVA in June. And as such, I am here today in front of you. Throughout the autumn we have sought and tried to find solutions that would support the Finnish transport entrepreneur. We do not want confrontation. We do not want to undermine the livelihood of a Finnish transport entrepreneur. Nor do we want road safety to deteriorate on Finland's roads. We want a fair environment. That is why, throughout the autumn, we have looked at what could be the means if, contrary to all the will, this were to progress. In my own hands, it is not the decision to put this aside, but Parliament has its own responsibility and its own opportunity. The government has its own possibilities, but so does the parliament. We have tried to find ways to support a Finnish transport entrepreneur: We've been working on tolls. There has been an investigation into the tightening up of the law on subscriber liability. The tightening of the electronic transport document requirements has been examined. It has been examined whether greater safety can be achieved by tightening tyre requirements. Efforts have been made to see how the EU can contribute. We have tried to be active in ensuring that, when dealing with the road package, cabotage is actively on the agenda. Unlike the representative Tavitsainen says here that this issue came to light regrettably from the SKAL’s own English-language brochure,notTraf,because of the fact that this is the case. So now we're cleaning up the situation that was created by the industry itself. Nor have I ever stated that Finland would be subject to retroactive threat of damages, but that if Finland were to be condemned, it would be not so much about the sanctions that might be imposed on Finland, but that it would make it possible for Finland to be able to apply for damages if Finland were found guilty or somehow so, then any haulier who should not have been allowed to drive the cabotage that the EU has proposed here. And this is, of course, the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on what are the risks, which is the scenario, which is the overall picture of EU policy in which Finland is wanted to be, where we want to be firm, where we want to be less strict. Every minister in the sector tries to defend his or hers to the very last, but that last line on Finland's position is made the last word of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the large committee. And then I have to put that national legislation on the table. Now I am proposing and hoping for wisdom from the Parliament — not confrontation, but seeking solutions, but also the provision that, if we have to do this and this government’s proposal to move forward, we will also have the means to support Finnish transport entrepreneurship. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u255	Madam Speaker! Thank you to the Minister at this point, I might say, for a very encouraging speech. Perhaps one day we need to read the lines, and here at least I have the feeling of the Minister's speech that even there in the committee we do not have to go so far on this issue, if I have understood it. Surely such a rich and varied hearing on this matter is appropriate. It is extremely important that, in this situation, as has rightly been said, this overall risk should be assessed, the whole should be assessed. When the EU regulation lacks a definition of temporaryity and transport and Finland has drawn its own conclusions, its own views and they are not good enough for the Commission, I would at least dare to interpret this in such a way that, in that sense, we are not in such a hurry to put this right. We now have a slightly different view with the Commission as to what is temporary and what is transport, and in that sense I think that this debate is also a good point in the direction of the committee. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u256	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. Yes, Finland can be a strong advocate of its own interests, and all other countries are doing just that — just as the little spirit is now here is the fact that there are three years left to roll it back and forth in committee, there and here. There's no rush with this. We must now give Finnish hauliers time to adapt to this situation. It may be, I guess, that then, in time, if some sanctions were to be imposed, the transport operator who would apply for compensation in Finland would have an absurd burden of proof to show that he would have been able to make such an offer in 2015 that he would have received all the transports here. A lawyer’s wizard in this country could be expected for quite a long time to prove that he has been harmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u257	Am I to understand that Mrs Torniainen also asked for a reply?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u258	Madam President! For my part, too, I would like to thank Minister Berner very much for that report and for the answers you gave us to the Members who are still in this Chamber and for the explanation which is why this government proposal is here in our Chamber debate now, and also for the background information that it has come from. I have understood that, in this Chamber, we all jointly want to secure Finnish transport entrepreneurship in the future and, in particular, the jobs of these Finnish drivers and the future for them. Now all together, then, let's find the means, actually turn all the carpets and see if there are still ways under the carpets to find the ways that this Finnish entrepreneurship will be strong in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u259	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u260	Madam President! We are discussing a new treaty on rail transport between Finland and Russia. Contract negotiations with Russia were agreed in 2005. The main reason for the negotiations is that organisational changes had taken place in both countries and that the railway business had been separated from administrative tasks. In addition, Finland had two specific reasons for opening negotiations: the current agreement is contrary to EU commitments and the treaty is partly contrary to the Finnish Constitution. Contract negotiations took place for ten years. The main reasons were that the legal systems were different and that the package of agreements was very broad. The Agreement was signed in April 2015. The new agreement and the inter-ministerial administrative agreement under it renews the existing, partly obsolete package of agreements, which is partly from the 1940s. The agreement covers direct international passenger and freight transport between Finland and Russia. Direct transport means that rail services between our countries are operated without the replacement of a passenger or without the transport of goods at railway border stations. The Agreement regulates conditions, rights and obligations for the carriage of passengers and goods, as well as relations between transport companies, including liability and other liability issues. The new agreement is clearer in terms of impact and responsibilities than the existing agreement. However, the responsibilities of transport companies remain the same as they are today. Responsibility for transport ends at the nearest railway station, unless otherwise agreed between transport companies. Compared to the existing agreement, the wording of the new treaty has been made neutral and the articles have been drafted in such a way as to comply with the requirements of EU law. The EU Commission has therefore confirmed by its decision in August 2015 that the agreement complies with EU law. The Government of the Russian Federation has sent this agreement to the Russian State Duma in January, and it is estimated that the Duma will be able to process it during the spring beginning. I hope that the agreement will be welcomed here in Parliament and that we will be able to deal with this issue during the spring. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u261	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Berner. It is indeed an excellent thing that this long-standing agreement has now been brought before Parliament. Rail cooperation with Russia is extremely important. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, I do not actually have any duubies, but this is opening up all railway border stations for the carriage of all types of goods. And this proposal also states that this does not actually involve changes in the tasks of customs and border guards in connection with rail transport between Finland and Russia, but if these transfers are to be made to other railway border stations and the increase in transport through them requires an increase in the input of customs and border control authorities at these stations, then sufficient resources must be allocated to the Border Guard and customs authorities. At the moment, our internal security framework is very thin. The Border Guard is under strong pressure in that direction towards the EU, towards Frontex. Some 50 person-years are about to be reserved for the so-called Emergency Services, and with the current frameworks, the Border Guard would have to reduce by up to 195 person-years by 2019. I do believe that the government, in its spending limits, will now take account of this fact, that we are under strong pressure to increase this particular aspect of internal security. But thank you again, Minister. It's great to have this long-runned contract here on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u262	Madam President! It is a good thing that this long-standing agreement has now finally been reached and that agreement is being reached. We all know that negotiations with that eastern neighbour are sometimes very long. I know that, for example, the agreement on the transport of dangerous goods by rail extended for several years and we were in a way uncontracted for a very long time. I'm glad we got that deal, too. It is good now that this comes into force, but at the same time I would also like to thank Minister Berner for the EUR 600 million key project package that was decided last week, which came into force with the basic infrastructure funding. It included EUR 28 million for Vainikkala railway station, which is the passenger traffic border station between Finland and Russia on which the trains operate. It came to an immensely good need there, and hopefully the work will quickly start there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u263	Minister Berner, one last minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your thanks. I would just like to say that, in fact, this forthcoming spending limits debate is intended to look at the framework capacity in terms of internal security and see what those resource needs will be in the future. Let us hope that a better solution can be found here too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u265	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-09-ps-4.u266	Madam President! The proposal proposes to provide for an investor law. The current investor law dates back to 2000, so it is no longer fully in line with the current requirements. The proposal would lay down, among other things, the conditions for the certification of the person carrying out the detonation work, i.e. the installer’s certificate. The purpose of the proposal is good in this respect, since it would contribute to improving the safety of people working in the blasting work and the overall safety of the work by clarifying and updating the regulation. At the beginning of 2015, there were approximately 4880 applicants’ certificates and there are currently three types of certificates: the explosive, the better and the over-emergency licence. In the past there was also a younger better licence, but it has been decommissioned. There are currently approximately 950 of the most demanding certificates of over-empowerment in Finland. A total of 325 new applicants’ certificates are issued each year, i.e. a very significant number. It is more than what, for example, police graduates graduate from school each year. For the sake of review, let me tell you that this year, as many as 67 police officers are graduating. This proposal would partially reform the classification of certificates. The profession of the younger bet would be coming back again, and the bet would become the older bet. The new qualification would be a whole new one: the person responsible for the blasting work. I think it is important that this qualification should not be obtained simply by reading books. The job of a betting man is demanding, and you don't just learn work by reading. Training only provides a starting point for the development of professional skills, because the profession emphasises competence through work and the handling of explosives in the immediate vicinity of the supervisor. Security cannot be overemphasized in the position of the better. It's about working with explosives. It doesn't really matter who works and blows up under the Parliament House or in Kamppi, where there's a lot of people out there at the same time. Certain calculations and others must be managed, but experience and professionalism at work are the most important. Although there are certificates of over-emergency competence in Finland, the 950 I mentioned earlier, they are not fit to be blown up in Kampp except for those who count with the fingers of one hand at most. I'm lucky to know some of them. The proposal provides for a more detailed definition of the conditions for the issue of certificates. In particular, the provisions on the other suitability of the person would be clarified. The proposal would provide that a person’s criminal background or other behaviour with regard to safety would preclude the issue of a certificate of competency. However, I see no mention of what this criminal background is like in the motion. Is the refusal of a certificate sufficient for drunk driving, assault, theft, narcotics crime or serious endangerment of road safety? Is a limited security clearance sufficient? Nor is it clear in this proposal how to find out these backgrounds from a foreign person. More Estonian workers, for example, who cannot speak Finnish, are working in mining sites. Is it the case that, for example, an Estonian person is sufficient to share his or her own criminal record and background? Of course, this information can be obtained from Finnish registers, but not necessarily even through cooperation between civil servants between states. The disclosure of information is also covered by the Personal Data Act and the Act on the Publicity of Authorities. In its opinions on the proposal, it was considered unnecessary to shorten the validity of the certificate to five years and was not expected to achieve the benefits presented. It is clear, therefore, that the reduction to five years will increase costs. It also increases the workload of the authorities. It would be more important to ensure the flow of information between the authorities and, where appropriate, to have the certificate withdrawn if there is reason to do so. In this case, there is no need to shorten the current period of validity. I also think it is important that when a person applies for training in the field of explosives, his background is checked and his/her suitability is assessed in advance. This would make it clear in advance that a potential person at risk wants to acquire expertise in the field of explosives. Madam President! I think it is important that those who are involved in the explosion work and those who are involved with explosives have the up-to-date training and skills necessary for the safe conduct of the work. However, the main problem in mining sites is that there is an ever-increasing rush. Another problem is that even though employees remember helmets and eye protectors well, the dangerous environment is not taken into account. There are also people who do not know the Finnish language. In this case, they cannot be careful even if they are warned of danger.
