ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Defence must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u2	Mr President! Finland participates in the preparation of the British-led combat unit from 1 July to 31 July. 1 December 2016. In addition to Great Britain and Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden participate in the Battlegroup. Before making a proposal for a decision on the capacity of the department, the Government shall consult Parliament by providing it with a report in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. After consultation of the Parliament, the President of the Republic shall decide on a proposal for a decision of the Government to set up a military division in high readiness. Finland's participation in the Battle Task Force led by Great Britain has been set up at joint meetings of the President of the Republic and the Government's Committee of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Parliament has also been informed of these guidelines. In accordance with the guidelines, Finland will set up a reconnaissance team, an air fire control team, a staff officer and the necessary supporting elements. The total strength of the Finnish population is about 50 soldiers. Mr President! The Battle Divisions are designed to strengthen the EU's common security and defence policy and its range of instruments in crisis management. They also contribute to the development of the military capabilities of the Member States. The EU Battlegroups, composed of different groups of countries, have been in readiness for six-month periods since 2007. As a general military term, the combat unit refers to a group capable of independent action. A prepared combat unit shall be able to begin crisis management tasks in the crisis area within 10 days of the decision to set up a crisis management operation in the EU Council. The political decision to launch the mission can therefore be implemented quickly if necessary. The possibility of using combat teams will enable the EU to react quickly to advanced crises if necessary. The overall framework for the operation of combat teams is the EU’s Battlegroup concept. According to it, a combat unit could be used for a relatively limited task of limited duration, in accordance with the size of the combat unit. Support for the UN is a key possible task. The combat unit may be used either as a separate crisis management team or as part of a wider operation. According to the concept, it is suitable, for example, as an advance force to secure a central destination such as an airport or a port. It could also involve taking over or stabilising a restricted area before the arrival of a wider group. The Battle Department could also temporarily support, for example, a UN crisis management operation in an area where the situation has suddenly become more difficult, or support the delivery of humanitarian transport. The maximum duration of the operation in accordance with the concept is four months. According to the concept, each battle group will have six months in standby, and at one time the EU will have two battle groups on standby. In the second half of this year, not only the British-led department but also the German-led combat unit will be in place. Mr President! The EU's battle groups have not been used so far. The main reasons for this have been the lack of a coherent political will, the issue of burden sharing and the question of the suitability of the stand-by department to carry out the current crisis management task. With regard to the British-led combat unit, too, the situation is that there are currently no preparations for the British-led department to be used during its stand-by. If such a situation develops, it will be difficult to assess whether the EU would be in a position to take a decision on deployment. The deployment of the Battlegroup will be decided by the EU Member States, although the leadership and the participating countries will play a major role in the preparation of the decision-making process. Ultimately, where and how the Battlegroup is used is always a political decision. Although the EU battle groups have not been used in a crisis management operation, their role in the development of military capabilities and interoperability is well established. Various measures have been discussed in the EU to improve the availability of combat teams. In Finland’s view, it is essential for the EU’s ability to act that the EU has a real readiness to use the rapid response capability. Finland has consistently spoken in favour of the use of the combat unit and has also taken part in contingency shifts, although the concept has originally been created for professional armies and not for reserve armies based on general military duty. Finland has supported reforms aimed at increasing the availability and co-financing of technical departments. Mr President! The British-led combat unit is a department of Great Britain, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden and Finland. It meets the requirements of the EU Battlegroup concept and is ready to carry out any crisis management tasks. The department consists of headquarters, a mechanized battalion, artillery battery, support company, intelligence company, headquarters company, service company and pioneer department. The overall strength is about 1,700 soldiers, most of whom, some 1,300 soldiers, are from Great Britain. The forces of the other participating countries are about 50 to 150 soldiers. The department set up by Finland consists of a reconnaissance team, an air fire control team, a maintenance section and a staff officer with a total strength of 52 persons. Most of them are reservists. The training of the British-led combat unit has been as planned and has been of high quality. In January, the training of the HQs began in the UK and the main Finnish group in March in the Pori Brigade Säkylä. The training phase of the Finnish department lasts for about 3 months and culminates in international exercises in the UK and Estonia in May and June. The Finnish troops are currently in the main military training exercise of the entire combat unit in the UK. The training phase of the Battle Department will end at the end of June, and the department will move on to the standby phase from the beginning of July. The costs of Finland’s participation in the training, establishment and preparedness phase have been taken into account in the 2016 budget for military crisis management appropriations. These costs of setting up, training and preparedness amount to approximately EUR 2.6 million, including expenditure from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence section. Mr President! The decision to use the forces in readiness for the EU mission is always a national decision. In Finland, the decision is made in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. National decisions on the possible use of EU Battlegroups are being prepared to take place faster than decisions on participation in other military crisis management operations. This also includes the prior reporting procedure before the start of the standby shift. The decision of the EU Council on the use of the Battlegroup in the operation requires unanimity of all Member States. On a practical level, the soldiers in the department have made a voluntary service commitment under which they will be on a high alert during a period of 5 days in readiness to take part in a possible operation. The costs associated with the possible use of the department in the operation are not foreseen in the draft budget for 2016. In the event of a national decision to send a combat unit to the operation being timely, the financing should be decided in an amending budget procedure. An indicative cost estimate of Finland's participation in a four-month operation in a department of approximately 50 soldiers would amount to a total of approximately EUR 5 million. Mr President! In the past, Finland has participated five times in the EU’s battle groups. In 2007 and 2011, Finland participated in battle groups under the leadership of Germany and the Netherlands and in the Nordic battle groups led by Sweden in 2008, 2011 and 2015. Finland’s experience of EU combat unit participation has been positive. Although the departments have not been used for operations so far, their participation has supported the maintenance and development of Defence Forces capabilities and Finland’s crisis management capabilities — if it is necessary to recognise the priceability of the departments compared to traditional rematch exercises, for example. Participation is part of the EU's common security and defence policy and its practical implementation. This is considered to contribute to strengthening Finland’s international position and defence capability.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u3	Mr President! Decision-making on the deployment of a military unit of 50 persons on standby as part of the Union's combat unit is already routine. Perhaps it is illustrative to the routine that, when we are just making a decision here, the department has already travelled, quite rightly, to England to train with the other countries involved in the battle group. I think that we generally hope that the long exercise that starts will become the most important issue of the on-call shift starting in the summer and that the soldiers will not have to send any crisis to control it. Mr President! The paradox is that, at the same time as we hope that there will be no crisis requiring the use of a combat unit, we complain about their lack of use. In this Chamber, too, there have been many criticisms of the EU's inability to use combat teams when the situation is real. In the EU, too, Finland has consistently advocated the use of the department. The world has been filled with crises since the Battlegroups started in 2007, but the overall capacity of the Union to use crisis management resources as part of its foreign policy is, for many reasons, ineffective. However, the challenge for the use of these departments remains the lack of political will, burden sharing issues, operational costs and the question of the suitability of a stand-by combat unit to carry out specific crisis management tasks. There is also a need for a unanimous decision on the use of troops in a crisis situation. This lack of use is also largely linked to the fact that, in the wake of the economic and euro crisis, for example, there has been no time for the development of a common foreign policy in the EU. The Union has not been able to draw up a common foreign and security policy strategy within which this action would also be planned. The decision-making capacity in the Union is just developing. However, the EU is preparing an updated strategy for the best time. The central parliamentary group therefore expects much of this so-called global strategy. We expect it to bring flexibility to the Union's foreign policy and its implementation. The Member States of the Union have a considerable number of capabilities and resources, but we do not yet know how to combine them enough to make an effective contribution to stability in the world. Mr President! Creating a high level of readiness also has a price tag. This arrangement is not free for our Defense Forces. Against this too, we need to look at the benefits that Finland can derive from participating in the Battlegroup concept. It can be said that, despite its shortcomings, it has been a useful arrangement for the Defence Forces in many ways. These departments play an important role in developing Finland’s crisis management capabilities and the Defence Forces’ capabilities. By participating in the EU’s fighting forces The Defence Forces may have created a rapid response capability in crisis management that did not exist in the past. It is essential that Finland has the ability to act quickly if necessary. It is particularly valuable that Finland has expanded its bilateral cooperation network over these years to new countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and the Baltic States. Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to something important. The name Battlegroup, the Battlegroup, is unnecessarily wary of this mass assembly for crisis management, although, as the Minister described, it describes the fact that the troops are capable of independent action. A time of international political sensitivity would not need more excessive war rhetoric now than the display of military muscles. The Ukrainian war and the Syrian war have, in a typical way, also brought evidence desires elsewhere, including in the Baltic Sea region. Practice must be done, but there is always the risk that military technical exercises starting in Finland, for example, will be interpreted in public opinion beyond their purpose. There is an easy accumulation of image loads on things more than was meant to be. I will not be surprised if American armored vehicles and aircraft are widely used in the next few weeks in illustrations and helmeted soldiers are news material. My narrow hope is that the flight routes will be carefully selected during the exercises. Mr President! The Central Finland Parliament Group supports Finland's participation in preparedness and the establishment of a department in high readiness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u4	Mr President! In the second half of 2016, Finland will participate for the sixth time in the preparedness of the European Union Battlegroup. In addition to Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden participate in the six-month stand-by exercise under the leadership of the UK. The size of the combat unit is a total of 1,700 soldiers, of which 52 are in Finland. The EU Battlegroups have been operational since 2007. It is intended that troops could be used for crisis management tasks in situations where a rapid response to a unexpected crisis is needed. The battle groups or the rapid reaction forces, as they are also called, have never been used so far. It has also been criticised here in Parliament. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy stated in its report on the preparedness of the Battlegroup last year that the European Union should have real preparedness and ability to use the Battlegroups. Mr President! However, Finland has considered that it is justified to participate in the battlegroup activities. Participation supports the development of Finland’s military capabilities, and in this way we support the European Union’s common foreign and security policy cooperation that is important for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u7	Mr President! At the Helsinki EU Summit in 1999, it was agreed to develop the EU's military crisis management capability. That was when the idea arose of the EU's fighting forces, also known as the EU's rapid reaction force. Since 2007, national groups of Member States have been ready for six-month periods. Finland has participated in battle groups five times. Today we are dealing with Finland's sixth participation, this time in the British department. The other countries are Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party is that it is clear that Finland must participate in this activity as before. It's about values, responsibility and security. Activities that increase Finland’s crisis management capabilities and the development of Defence Forces capabilities are welcome and necessary. According to the report, the experience of participation has been positive. The battle groups will improve cooperation between the Member States and contribute to the compatibility of national forces. Finnish personnel on standby have also served in crisis management operations after their standby. In the current security environment, the readiness for a rapid response is further emphasised. So far, there is no experience with the use of combat units. Practice and readiness have their own value, but practical experience would strengthen the credibility of the system. However, it has not been that there was no use for crisis management forces. The EU has been involved in crisis management in Mali, Chad and Congo, for example, but each time a separate operation has been set up. The use of combat teams in turn always requires unanimity among the Member States, which inevitably restricts and limits their usability. In addition, the costs of stand-by and possible operations during that period are largely borne by the participating countries themselves. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs has pointed out in previous reports, the lack of use by the fighting groups has also been motivated by a wider tolerance in the development of the EU's common foreign and security policy. This has been influenced by the euro crisis, the national challenges of the countries and the lack of a broader common EU strategy. On the other hand, the security situation in Europe was also felt for a long time. However, the security environment in Europe has changed significantly in a short period of time and there has been an increase in wars and conflicts in Europe's neighbourhood. At the same time, we have seen that crises may also arise within the borders of the Union. Following the Paris terrorist attacks, the EU first activated the mutual assistance clause. This was historic in the Union's common security and defence policy. As a non-military country, it is important for Finland that the EU security guarantees are not just dead on paper. Security and defence policy is now taking place in the EU as a whole. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy is currently preparing the EU's global foreign and security policy strategy. On this basis, a White Paper on EU Defence is to be drawn up. In addition, the Commission is currently working on its defence action plan. Unforeseen and rapidly emerging crises, hybrid threats, the refugee crisis and the deteriorating security situation in the Baltic Sea show how closely external and internal security are intertwined. In the EU, defence has started to be seen more and more comprehensively. Mr President! The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party encourages Foreign Minister Soini and Minister of Defence Niinistö to play an active role as the EU outlines reforms in its foreign and security policy during the summer and autumn. It is possible to improve the availability of combat forces by reforming the decision-making process related to their use, by increasing Union co-financing, and by developing more flexible preparedness forces in terms of duration and composition. Closer cooperation with NATO is necessary, but there is no need to build overlapping systems. In its previous opinion, the Parliamentary Committee on Defence has also called for a reduction in the political threshold for the use of departments. Unfortunately, the overall estimate is that the world around us is not becoming safer but rather less secure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u8	Mr President! For the sixth time, Finland will participate in the stand-by of the EU Battlegroup. The last time was in the first half of 2015. This time, as has been heard here, it is a British-led combat unit in which Finland participates with the strength of about 50 people. According to the EU Battlegroup concept adopted in 2004, the Battlegroup could be used for a limited duration and sized task. The concept is linked to the requirement of the Union’s security strategy to promote rapid and, where necessary, strong intervention at an early stage. Although the launch of the mission does not require a mandate from the UN Security Council, its request is a starting point for the use of combat forces in a crisis situation. So far, the use of this department has not been discussed during its stand-by. To date, the departments have never been used in operations, and it is difficult to assess the potential future use, because it is always challenging to anticipate crises. The use of the department shall be decided unanimously by the Member States. The essential question is: is the Union in a position to take unanimous decisions on the use of the departments? It must be recognised that the battle groups will only be able to strengthen the strategic credibility of the EU if they have real capacity and ability to use them. Mr President! In connection with the participation in the previous combat unit, the Finnish Parliament held a debate on the development of the concept of combat unit. The question of the unusable use of combat teams has been raised in the new report. The questions of common rules of play, both as regards the picture of the situation and the distribution of costs, have been difficult. It is true that the concept in part only seeks its form. However, benefits have also been reaped. Joint exercises have been organised within the Battle Divisions, which have increased the capacity of Finnish troops to cooperate with other countries that have assigned troops to these departments. This is also relevant from the point of view of national defence, since there are no well-established structures of military planning or cooperation, especially within the EU. Cooperation during peace can also provide a basis for cooperation in crisis situations. Finland should therefore take the initiative in increasing usability and development. We have a long tradition of peace-keeping and multilateral international cooperation. For example, as mentioned in the report, the activities of the departments could be made more flexible so that they could be accompanied by the necessary activities from the previous department and the next one on standby. Mr President! Our position is well established as a non-military but supporting European foreign and security policy. Our membership of the European Union is a key security policy choice. Traditionally, we have been encouraging in the development of the EU's foreign and security policy, including the concept of the Battlegroup. We have consistently spoken in favour of it and have also taken part in the standby. It is important that we continue to support the strengthening of the EU's common security and defence policy. Responsibility for international security is part of Finland's long-term security policy. It is also a question of developing a common EU security and defence policy and making use of existing instruments for this purpose. The report seems to leave open for future participation in combat teams. So are we changing our attitude toward combat groups? If so, it raises many questions. After all, the European Union's cooperation has been considered more recently than ever, partly due to the debate on security guarantees in the EU. The Socialist Parliamentary Group therefore requires that the Government specify the intention of Finland's future to participate in security cooperation, both within the UN and within the European Union, but also elsewhere in multilateral cooperation, and a natural place for these clarifications and clarifications will soon have to be given to Parliament a report on foreign and security policy. Our foreign and security policy must continue to contribute to the security and well-being of Finland and Finns. If we are to succeed in this, we must also be active at the tables that try to build a more stable future for the whole world. In Finland, security policy choices should not be made rashly, but collectively, seriously and thoroughly. There is still a lasting justification for our already well-established approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u9	Mr President! Finland has been active in the development of crisis management in the European Union. This is the sixth time we've been involved in the formation of a combat unit. As has been reported, troops have not yet been deployed, but they have played an important role for Finland in developing crisis management capabilities and capabilities. We do not yet know whether the combat forces will be deployed during the next six months, when the 52 Finnish soldiers will be on standby. Many already thought that the EU solidarity clause was a dead letter, but now we know that it is not. Situations in the world are changing so fast that six months is a long time. Mr President! The international security situation has deteriorated in recent years. This underlines the importance of crisis management. We Greens warmly support measures to strengthen international security. Appropriate means are to invest in peace-keeping and conflict-prevention and to support the development of fragile countries. The world needs troops capable of reacting quickly to various crises and changing situations. In crisis areas, there is an urgent need for reinforcement of civil protection tasks in particular. A number of reforms have sought to reduce the threshold for the use of the EU Battlegroup. Force flexibility has been increased and advance planning developed. It's a good development. However, there is also a need for rapid decision-making capacity in addition to the troops. The use of the combat unit requires a unanimous decision by the EU countries. In order for the rapid reaction force to be able to act quickly, the common tone of the EU's foreign policy must be found with pleasure even before the crisis breaks out. It is therefore important to continuously develop the EU's common foreign and security policy and to seek more effective decision-making methods. The Greens consider it important that the operation for which the Battlegroup is being deployed has a mandate from the UN. Mr President! During this term of government, the Government is cutting military crisis management appropriations by a total of EUR 45 million. In practice, all the money is already tied to existing operations, and as it ends, no new ones will be added. The government has said that if necessary, it will finance new operations with additional budgets, but this procedure will reduce the flexibility of our crisis management policy and slow down the implementation of the operations. Although the EU Battlegroup's participation model has been successfully reduced, we still spend 2.6 million of our reduced crisis management resources on training and keeping those involved in the forces in readiness without the money still being used for crisis management. In this situation, it is particularly problematic that the stand-by combat unit has not been used once. There are numerous crises and conflicts in the world where there is a need for different forms of crisis management, yet Finland’s participation is reduced for reasons of savings. The question arises as to whether it would be more efficient and meaningful to use resources to participate in UN crisis management operations. Mr President! In parallel with military crisis management forces, civilian crisis management has been developed in the EU. Finland has been active in this, and many Finnish experts have been trained in civilian crisis management tasks. Civil crisis management also needs to be further strengthened. The situation in Kosovo and, most recently, in Ukraine reminds us that there is still a need for emergency assistance and reconstruction in Europe as well as for securing the basic functions of society — administration, justice, police, social and health services and education. Crisis management must be developed from the perspective of comprehensiveness. In particular, there is a need to step up cooperation and coordination between those involved in fragile and crisis areas. Although the idea of comprehensiveness has been on the table for years, it still needs to be clarified. The Greens therefore encourage the Government to act in accordance with the Government Programme to coordinate military and civilian crisis management. Mr President! With these suggestions, the Green Parliament supports the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u10	Mr President! It is quite clear that the current EU Battlegroup concept and the system cannot live much longer. If, as mentioned in the report, the battle groups are an instrument for rapid crisis management and military performance development, neither of these criteria will work. Battlegroups have not been used once, even though possible action has been extended to the war on terrorism and support for the security sector. For example, Finland has better instruments for developing military performance. At present, the establishment and training of EU combat teams could be described as a long-term international review exercise. If, on the other hand, the main criterion is to strengthen the EU's common security and defence policy, then it must be said that this is an increasingly deepening EU federal development and militarisation – even in a situation where the EU is fighting for its existence under pressure of internal conflicts. Finland has already expressed its favourable position on increasing co-financing in EU military crisis management. Recently, the European Commission took its first decision on the financing of the defence sector: first, pre-research or mapping, then a large-scale research programme, followed by concrete actions. These decisions give direction to the future. Finland's repeated decisions to participate in the battle groups have become a continuum that is not called into question or discussed in principle. We believe that the EU battle groups and the preparedness system should be critically assessed. Although the international community was frustrated by the failure to prevent genocide in the 1990s, it does not lead to the conclusion that the EU's combat force is the solution to the problem. What crisis has been resolved, what disaster has been prevented or what threat has been countered by the EU's fighting forces? The fact that the fighting groups have not been used is by no means an indication of their necessity, rather the contrary. Mr President! In the EU’s military department, the contribution—output ratio is very low. What value does Finland get for its money, and what will a ready country have to pay if a combat unit is activated for an operation? Taking a leadership role would tie up military crisis management resources for a long time, and it would cost tens of millions of euros just to create the capability. The inadequacy of political will, the issue of burden sharing and the disagreements over the suitability of the combat unit have led to the failure to use the combat teams once. The decision to use the Battlegroup requires unanimity of all EU Member States. For example, when it comes to securing an object, airport or port, taking over a restricted area or similar activities, decision-making is unhelpful. If there is no common picture of the situation, how will a unanimous decision be reached? Even the report on the possible use of the British-led combat force states that it is difficult to assess at this stage whether the EU would be in a position to take a decision on deployment in a current crisis. The size of the combat unit may range from 1,000 to 3,000 soldiers. Each stand-by combat unit has its own special strengths and weaknesses. Also, the nature of possible operations may vary greatly. A tool has now been developed that is not known what it is used for and how it is used. However, fighting groups have been in readiness since 2007. The EU’s combat force is often planned to be used in an operation in which civilian crisis management and international organisations are more appropriate. The money spent on combat forces could be used to equip a much larger number of lighter troops tailored for each purpose. Military crisis management has proven to be more useful in a case-by-case tailored force and would preferably be seen as operating under the UN flag. The Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance will closely monitor the input of expert consultations during the committee reading, as the criteria for participation included in the report are rather lax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u11	Värderade Talman! Det ligger ingen som helst dramatik i att Finland åter tänker vara en del av EU-stridsgrupen som ska vara i beredskap andra paravan av 2016. Det är ju britterna som leder den raus snabbinstyrkan och det var så sent som i fjol som Finland senast var med, då med Sverige i ledande roll. Sammanlagt har Finland variety med fem gånger tidigare, första gången 2007, och därför kan man med fog säga att det är är business as usual. Det är en del av våra internationalella åligganden.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u12	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament welcomes the cooperation on military crisis management within the framework of the European Union. The European Union's high-capacity combat teams are part of the cooperation on security and defence policy, which strengthens the competence of Finnish troops and their readiness to carry out international crisis management missions. At the same time, by participating in the preparedness forces, we will be able to develop the Defence Forces' operating methods and compare the ability of Finnish troops to other countries in practice. We believe it is important that the European Union has the capacity to deploy troops to crisis management missions at a rapid notice. The battle groups have been in operation since 2007 and, as the report and this debate have shown, they have not been used in any operation to date. Each six months of standby departments are very different in performance and their suitability for different tasks varies greatly. It is very difficult to reach a political decision on the use of combat teams, because even if it is nominally the EU Battlegroup, the responsibility and the cost of possible operations would be left to the participating countries and, in particular, to the head of the department. Mr President! Although the experience of participating in the European Union's Battlegroup is in principle positive for Finland, we should seriously consider how to develop the activities in the future. The development and measurement of crisis management capabilities and capabilities of the Defence Forces alone does not provide sufficient added value for the European Union's combat unit system. At European level, a debate should be opened on where to use the preparedness forces and it must be admitted honestly that the Battlegroup concept has not been able to fulfil its most important purpose, namely a rapid response to crisis management. The forces that cannot be used in practice for any lack of political decision-making and for a lack of suitability for various tasks are not a genuine stand-by force. The burden-sharing of the European Union's crisis management tasks requires a new, clear policy that would enable the use of combat teams. There has been no shortage of crises. In recent years, we have had to witness a number of crises in the European Union's neighbourhood. There have been uprisings and civil wars in North Africa and the Middle East. The crisis in Ukraine showed that armed conflicts are not even history in Europe. The refugee crisis last summer and autumn has put relations between the Member States to the test, and refugee flows threaten the principle of the free movement of the European Union. At the same time, it should be noted that today's threats are no longer just military. Hybridization and hybrid threats have changed the nature of conflicts. The interfaces between external and internal security have expanded, and the differences between the two are beginning to be like a line drawn in water. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris last autumn, the importance of the Treaty of Lisbon was first tested and the French request for assistance was met positively by many countries. Terrorism, the refugee crisis and the threats of hybrid warfare in the Member States show that the European Union needs more comprehensive security and defence cooperation. The European Union's common security and defence policy must therefore be developed more in line with the threats of today and the future, and we therefore encourage the government to take the initiative to shift the focus to the fight against hybrid threats in the European Union's common security and defence policy. Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group supports Finland's involvement in the preparedness of the British-led combat unit, but at the same time we encourage the government to consider how to improve the availability of the European Union's combat unit system for crisis management tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage I will give the minister perhaps 2 minutes on the spot or in the toilet, whichever way, and the Minister's speech will be followed by a short debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u14	Mr President! Thank you to the parliamentary groups for their broad support for the Government report. Thank you, too, for the critical remarks. They are justified in many respects. In particular, the question of why the EU's battle groups have not been used at all is appropriate and has been raised in several speeches. Surely the main reason is, frankly, the lack of political will, and in this respect the EU countries should look in the mirror. Secondly, the issue of burden sharing is the question of the suitability of a stand-by combat unit to carry out a current crisis management mission. These issues need to be addressed at EU level, and Finland has been active in this work and will continue to be active. It is good that Parliament is also up-to-date and awake in this respect. The problems are well-known. We must try to resolve them, otherwise the concept of the Battlegroup in this form will not have a sustainable future. It should be noted that the last three years since the crisis in the Central African Republic, there would have been an opportunity for rapid action. Thus, the possibility of using combat teams was raised by Finland and Sweden, but there was not enough support from other countries, and so the troops for the operation of the Central African Republic were brought together in the usual way. Mr President! It is good that Parliament will carefully review the benefits and disadvantages of the EU's Battlegroup activities in the course of the committee's deliberations on this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u15	Mr President! I also feel that it is important for Finland to be involved in this deployment of EU troops. These rapid reaction forces or combat forces will involve 50 Finns. I would draw attention to the fact that it is an important part of their training for Finnish reservists, while so-called professional soldiers receive important training. Finland is able to train ground troops. They will have experience of these international tasks, if they are to do so. Attention has been drawn here to the fact that these troops have never had to be deployed. This training phase itself, as the Minister said in his own speech, takes three months and already gives good practice to Finns, both professionals and reservists. I think this aspect should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u16	Mr President! When it comes to a common EU defence and security policy and security guarantees, it is important to note what they mean and what they do not mean. For Finland, Western cooperation is good and very important. The EU's common policy and security guarantees are binding, but the EU is not a defence union and it is not becoming one. EU security guarantees are important, but they alone are not enough. The same applies to cooperation between Finland and Sweden. It is very good and desirable, but it is not enough. The main objective of security policy decisions and debate is always to strengthen Finnish security from the perspective of our national interests. It is to be hoped that the NATO assessment published on Friday will launch a wide-ranging, factual debate on the implications of military alliances and non-alignment for Finland's security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u17	Mr President! As our speaker has already said, the Finns of Peru support this proposal. Battlegroups are, in principle, a good form of cooperation, even though in practice they have not been used once. EU defence cooperation should also have some practical content. I myself have been sitting there in the sub-committee on defence in the European Parliament, where there was a real need for practical content, that there was at least something to really do. This way, including through this activity, even together in practice, as I said, will be done. Nevertheless, as has already been pointed out here on many occasions, a clearer definition of the task and purpose is certainly meaningful in the long term. Even as a former peacekeeper, I understand that such endless training without use is of course not then by the troops
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u18	Mr President! Just as has been said jointly in this debate, Finland has consistently supported this concept of combat unit. I would like the Minister to be able to give even more assurances on the answer to the question put by the Socialist Group in Parliament as to whether you think there is any prospect of a change in the position of the Finnish Government in relation to this issue of the Battlegroup, because there has now been more talk of this EU cooperation in the wider context of the European Union because of various security policy threats, in fact more than for a long time. I would also like to ask if you can see that the EU's global foreign and security policy strategy could provide some reference frameworks now also for the development of this concept of combat group, because it can also be concluded from this debate that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u19	Mr President! As has been said, a good Minister, the EU needs faster decision-making in addition to a rapid force. I therefore ask how Finland intends to contribute to faster decision-making in situations where rapid troops are needed. My second question: does the government consider that a UN mandate is needed for rapid reaction operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u20	President, Talman! På det nordiska utrikesministermötet i Haiko i Borgå i går betonade alla de nordiska länderna att de kraftfult stöder en fördjupad dialog och ett samarbete mellan NATO, mellan Finland och mellan Sverige, och rauh citerar jag den gemensamma debattikiel som ministrarna Hade i gårdages Hufvudstadsbladet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u21	Mr President! Investments in the Battle Department concept have brought educational benefits to our Defence Forces, but all in all this is an expensive system as a mere exercise. The report contains a brief outline of how, in Finland's view, this concept should be developed in the future, but I hope that you, Minister, will open this up a little more, for example, how this increase in co-financing could be developed. Then there is another question about the situation in the British leadership. After all, there are two difficult conditions for the use of combat teams, on the one hand, these costs, which are particularly borne by the leadership, and, on the other hand, the question of political consensus. Now that Britain is in a state of fermentation in relation to the European Union, how do you see that it would have an effect if such a possible situation were to arise during this shift?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u22	Mr. Speaker! After all, the main criticism here is that these battle groups have not been used. Of course, it must be admitted that it would be very good if it had been possible to use them in appropriate situations, but in part this criticism is wrong. It is wrong in the sense that it is very important that the Finnish Defence Forces are able to cooperate internationally through these exercises, and it is of the utmost importance to our Defence Forces, who are striving for this so-called interoperability. It could be said a little rhetorically that even Finland’s defence forces will not be shut down, even though they are just practicing. In other words, the exercise is also very important. On the whole, as far as the way forward is concerned, after the terrorist attacks in Paris, the European Union is:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u23	Mr President! The European Union's combat unit is like an insurance policy that has not been needed. On the other hand, it is a good thing that it has not been necessary, but the threshold for the use of the combat force has certainly remained unclear, and I hope that the European Union's global strategy will provide the necessary response to this. I would have asked you the same question as Mr Räsänen about Brexit. If Britain decides to resign from membership of the European Union, the process will of course take several years, but does the Minister see the direct impact of a referendum on this role of a leading state? Finland acts as a stabilising force in many international organisations, including the European Union, and our own role in crisis management has been long and important. Here I would like to highlight the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre, Mr Vanhanen's group statement, in which Finland's role in crisis management was well described, and also
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u24	Mr President! Representative Kari used a good term: this is a bit about insurance. I believe that the importance of these battle groups in the historical perspective will not be apparent until years, years later. Surely this concept of action will change. Perhaps the next step is rather a stronger readiness for rapid action. When decisions were taken in 2004 and implementation for the first time in 2007, this was precisely based on the strong appeal of the UN Secretary-General to us to create units capable of quickly entering places in a few days to prevent genocide or other crises. Many times the first stage would then be followed by a further operation, which will have to be planned and put together longer, but this is now a certain form of first aid and insurance. The cost of this compared to the total defence budgets of the EU Member States is marginal after all. In this sense, I thought this term was good, and the efficiency is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u25	Mr President! This insurance term is really good. We must remember that the EU is also a security policy solution for Finland. That should not be forgotten. Now, especially after the Paris attack, when it seems that the EU is taking a step forward, when France activates this aid, not the solidarity clause, this 42.7, it is now important to send out a clear message here that Finland supports the development of the EU's foreign and security policy dimension. Finland's foreign policy has been characterised precisely by this term,'stability policy', which includes Finland and Sweden being outside the military alliances and acting as stabilising factors. In this respect, I also acknowledge Mr Vanhanen's term when he said that less war rhetoric would suffice. I agree with you very much. This would also support our long-standing foreign policy policy on stability. It is important that the forces that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u26	Mr President! If you look back on this history of setting up battle groups, then the starting point was precisely that it sought crisis management, a solution to the problems and wanted to prevent genocide. This was not justified by the development of national defence capabilities. That seems to be the main argument today. But I wonder where this criticism of the EU goes when we talk about a common defence and security policy for the European Union. And in the same way it disappears when we talk about increasing EU funding in the defence sector. But whether it is NATO, foreign and security policy in general or the obligations of the Treaty of Lisbon, Finland must always make national, independent decisions. In that respect, I fully agree with the President of the Republic, unlike those who are now side by side and interpret this NATO report in such a way that it means that Finland cannot make independent decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u27	Reply to Mr Mustajärvi's speech. — Mr Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u28	Mr President! Mr Mustajärvi is right that the whole concept in the EU, largely at the request of the UN, was justified by genocide, among other things. But when Finland made its own decision as to whether we are in favour of this and whether we are promoting it and going along with it, as we went to the first battle groups, it also includes an analysis of the way in which these funds are used for this purpose also serves to develop our own defence. And those arguments were in favour of us coming along in this respect as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u29	Mr President! The NATO debate is its own debate, and it would be desirable for the government to bring this report into this Chamber as well. It is valuable that there is broad support here. It is important for Finland to be involved in the EU’s battle group activities. For a non-military country, it is important that we make the most of what is available in the EU. After the attacks in Paris, the Lisbon aid clause was activated and everyone responded quickly to it 'yes'. It is of great value to a non-military country that this was done, and for us this broad interpretation of this aid clause is certainly to our benefit. And I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that, after a similar debate, we have received a good report that the crisis management veteran programme is on the way this year. It also affects these women and men, like all those we send to crisis management missions. We take responsibility at the worst of times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u30	Mr President! In addition to Finnish security and defence, we must have wider shoulders, and the EU has been the option supported by the Social Democrats. We will learn from it, as has been said here, but they will ensure our common European security in the big picture. There have been these questions as to whether it makes sense to pay such a high price for training and other activities, and then, on the one hand, for this decision-making and, on the other hand, for some of the tasks for which a combat force can be used or not. My question to the Minister is that is there a debate within the European Union about this decision-making system or about the extension or modification of the tasks currently restricted. And the second question: here are the responsibilities of Britain, which is, of course, in this process, but will there in the future be enthusiastic leaders?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u31	Mr President! At least my thinking is from the point of view — and I hope many others — that when people take part in international operations they talk about crisis management as well as other training activities, we always have our own national defence at the heart of it and it must be supportive of it. However, we have a unique system on European standards, universal military service and reserve-based forces, and our reservists gain important international experience through these activities. The EU's fighting forces are an important part of this common EU foreign and security policy, but the exploitation of these forces, which has also been discussed today, has in fact remained non-existent, it has not been done, it has only been practised. I would like to ask the Minister whether it would be possible to make use of crisis management tasks — for example, when there was a lot of talk about the Malian operation last season, so would this be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u32	I will give the floor to the representatives of Tuppurainen, Vikman, Pakkanen and Lindtman and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a few minutes. And then gradually, gradually move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u33	Mr President! The European Union is a fundamental security community for Finland, and there is a great deal going on in EU security and foreign policy cooperation at the moment. It is timely, inter alia, with the activation of this assistance clause and also with the preparation of this global strategy by High Representative Federica Mogherini, which will further shape the common foreign and security policy. On the other hand, there are also concerns on the table, the most important of which is the possible separation of Great Britain from the European Union as a whole and from European cooperation, and the risks it poses should not be further emphasised. It is important for Finland to foster European cooperation. It is not in our interest to break up the EU and return to a Europe of great powers. That is why we must commit ourselves to European cooperation and be involved in the activities of the combat groups and also in the development of the combat groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u34	Mr President! Some people here want to see war rhetoric. I don't recognize that. However, the painters of war rhetoric forget the fact that when we want peace, we must be prepared to defend ourselves in such a credible way that no one is simply in favour of threatening Finland or attacking Finland. From this point of view, security guarantees from the strongest defence union in the world would be an important addition to our own national defence, as is evident from the experts' assessment of NATO. The main objective of security policy decisions is always to strengthen Finland’s own security. We must, in any case, take care of our own credible defence, and alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u35	Mr President! I am one of those forces that attaches importance to Finland’s own defence forces, and I feel that such involvement in the combat forces strengthens our own defence capability and the ability of the reservists to practice. I myself have been involved in the UN forces and I feel that it is a little strange that these forces are going to come up here and have not had to be used. I just think it's good that the world doesn't have such crises where such troops would be. I think it is valuable to have Mr Salolainen's view that even Finland does not give up its own defence, even though it does not need to be used. Colonel Baronen once told me in Namibia that you have to show strength so you don't have to use it. I think this is a good principle in such UN-led and these international missions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u36	Mr President! With reference to this speech by Mr Vikman, although this is not the subject of the NATO debate, I think it shows that it is very important that the parties that are the long, stable foreign policy line in Finland, the stability policy — which includes Finland remaining outside the military alliances and is a stabilising factor — in particular, all those forces now work closely together. But I wanted to address this previous speech, this security hearing. In time, there was talk of whether these meant anything, and even in Mr Vikma’s first speech — a little of the same rhetoric — he reminded us that we must remember what they do not mean. When representative Heinonen here said that we are served by this kind of broad interpretation and as if
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u37	And the last response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u38	Mr President! I think that questioning the term 'combat forces' or 'combat forces' in the centre of the group statement was a good point. And it is quite true that when it comes to crisis management and there are also a lot of tasks where they protect civilians specifically, it may perhaps give the wrong impression of this use of the combat force word, and that is something to be paid attention to. Then I would like to raise this comprehensive aspect of crisis management. In other words, civilian crisis management activities in the EU are also being carried out and are being developed together with military crisis management, as in Finland. It has been pointed out that it should be considered more comprehensively. I would have asked the Minister: how has progress been made on this issue both at EU level and in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u39	And now for the minister, a two-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u40	Mr President! Thank you for the questions, the comments, the comments. The round of questions was launched by Mr Pakkanen, who said that the EU's combat teams are important training for the reservists. They are, of course, but we must always remember the cost-effectiveness and effectiveness of traditional reserve refresher exercises when talking about developing Finland's defence capability. Mr Huovinen asked about the government's position on the issue of the Battlegroup in the future. The current position can be seen from this report, but of course we are following the debate at EU level and we hope that this global strategy, which is under preparation for the EU, will provide a basis for a sensible reform of the concept of combat unit. This same question was also raised by representatives Räsänen and Savola, and I think Mr Paatero also took up the matter. Representative Aalto asked about Finland's ability to make rapid decision-making. I believe that there is an example of this three years ago when we were ready to decide on the operation of the Central African Republic, as I have told you. To Mrs Wallin, I regret to say that I have no information about this meeting of the Nordic Foreign Ministers, Mr Haiko. I haven't had a chance to talk to Minister Soin yet. Mr Kari quite aptly compared the EU Battlegroup concept to insurance, and he asked, I think he was a representative like Mr Räsänen, on the UK's break-up from Brexit. I don't think if the Brexis came true, the referendum would say no. I do not believe that this would have any direct impact on the British leadership in the battle group in question. Congressman Lindtman brought up war rhetoric. And I think it was Mr Mikkonen, or was it because of Mr Vanhanen's initiative that this debate took place, and Kari too. This is, of course, a matter of opinion, whether it is war rhetoric or not, and I say that the English name is EUBG, the Battlegroup, in that sense the correct translation. It is a common military term which refers to a group capable of independent action. In that sense, the name is still valid. Mr Paatero asked if I knew if there would be any eager take-up of the leadership of the battle groups in the future. I do not know, but I do know that Finland is not in this economic situation at least. Taking on such leadership responsibilities as Great Britain is appropriate for a professional army, but it would be extremely expensive for an army of reservists. We are talking about tens of millions of euros, if not hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u41	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u42	Mr President! For the sixth time, Finland will participate in the preparedness of the EU Battlegroups. So this is not the invention of the current government. This time Finland participates in the stand-by with 52 soldiers, and it costs us taxpayers EUR 2.6 million, or a tenth of what it has paid in the past. There has not yet been a decision to take part in the next standby shifts, but I personally consider it important that we are where we gain new military expertise and experience in military cooperation with other EU countries. The fact that the European Union does not have its own independent defence forces must also be borne in mind. That is also why such exercises are important. However, it would be good if the departments were financed jointly, so that the share of Finland could continue to fall from this share of 2.6 million. The most important thing, however, is to consider what the real benefits and disadvantages of participating in Finland’s standby shifts are and how the operations could be further rationalised. It is the interests of Finland that must be considered here. At the same time, we need to clarify the plans the EU has made for the development of combat activities. I believe that military cooperation with the EU countries, and precisely because the EU does not have its own armed forces, is the main benefit of such action. If the purpose of the troops is to continue to be able to be used for crisis management tasks in situations where there is a need for a rapid response to the unexpected crisis, then there will certainly be plenty of tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u43	Mr President! The decision itself to send a military department is not difficult or far-reaching, to say the least. Finland has participated in this activity several times before. This time, too, we can expect training, which in itself is very valuable in improving the ability to work together. On the other hand, the use of a division in operations is unlikely. It is difficult to anticipate future crises. However, it is likely that an operation of which all 28 EU countries would agree will not be implemented during this year. This decision-making system is worth considering. Of course, none of us wants the department to be forced, let alone haste, to engage in a military operation. But I think it is clear that maintaining the system is only meaningful if it can be used. Finland should be determined to seek political agreement on increasing the functioning of the system. Mr President! The European security and defence policy is timely. Germany is preparing a new assessment of the situation, including a more active role in security policy and an increase in defence resources. The German activation supports European security, so much has changed in the world. On the other hand, the European security structure is threatening to become fragile. If Britain leaves the European Union, it will also be disastrous, especially for European security. In Finland’s national interest, cooperation structures are important. We do not want to break up the EU and replace it with a Europe of great powers. We must send out a signal of cooperation and commit ourselves to the actions we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u44	Mr President! Finland has been actively involved in the activities of the EU Battlegroup and the experience gained has been positive. In crisis management operations, Finland has traditionally also had internationally recognised high levels of competence. This expertise can be kept up-to-date and developed by participating in the EU Battlegroup. Persons who participated in the Battle Department have also been able to use the experience gained in various international crisis management missions since their presence in the wider field. It can be said that participation in the EU Battlegroup and Finland’s role in crisis management are mutually supportive. Compared to many other countries, Finland’s defence is exceptional. With our national defence based on a strong reserve army and non-alignment, other countries in operation have either a professional army or membership of the Defence Union or both. The starting point for Ireland in this section is similar to that for us. Ireland does not have an army of professional soldiers, and they are non-aligned like Finland. With the current crisis escalating to the use of force perhaps very quickly, it is important that Finland has the opportunity to learn from other countries' policies. In addition to this, Finland must have the ability to transfer the lessons learned into our own defence and general crisis management. This objective is supported by the fact that the department now being set up is made up of highly committed reservists, so that the lessons and experiences gained from the activities of the department are made available not only to the staff but also directly to the active reservists. The Battle Department consists of a wide range of forces which together bring to it the necessary operational capability to operate independently in different operating environments. The largest participating unit in Finland is the intelligence team. In a modern, rapidly changing environment, data collection and analysis during the crisis are very key management tools. Participation will certainly bring added value to the up-to-date development of Finnish intelligence. The challenges faced by the Joint Battlegroup have actively started to develop solutions, for example through the development of communication between the various participants. This is an indication of a number of capabilities and of the fact that the activity develops in accordance with the requirements of time. Mr President! By participating in the EU Battle Group together with other countries, we will develop cooperation with other EU countries as well as our own expertise and ability to act quickly in crisis management. In addition, participation in the forces is a cost-effective way of training and Defence personnel and reservists for modern crisis situations in an international environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u45	Mr President! Participation in international crisis management is an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. In this way, Finland shows that it wants to contribute to supporting peace, security and stability in the world. Military crisis management is part of the whole of crisis management, and this part also includes the European Union's battle groups, which we are discussing today. International crisis management operations and preparations for them, as is the case with the fighting forces in question, will also improve our national defence capabilities in a certain way, as reservists and progenitors will also be able to practice in international activities. In this respect, the EU's Rapid Response Battlegroup action is also useful for Finland, although to date, fortunately, it has not been used as a response to any specific crisis situations. Finnish personnel on standby have been used in various crisis management operations since then, and in the future, Finland must also have the ability to act quickly, if necessary, in EU military crisis management operations. With regard to the functioning of the Battlegroup concept, there have been difficulties along the way. There is not necessarily a common political will, or the main responsibility of the combat unit has refused to bear the financial burden of the operation. After all, the use of combat teams has been considered a few times, as has been the case in the Congo between 2005 and 2006, in Chad and the Central African Republic on a number of occasions. But in the end, however, the EUFOR mission, which has been planned separately, has been concluded. Mr President! Finland has long spoken for the usability of the EU Battlegroup. The problems of the system are not a reason to abandon the EU's fighting forces but to further develop them as part of the EU's common security and defence policy. Looking from a broad perspective, in recent years the EU's attention and resources have been taken away by economic problems and the refugee crisis, and the development of the common foreign and security policy has not been given the same amount of time as it should have been. However, the EU also needs competence in this area, and the development of combat teams is a good tool for this. In fact, Finland has sent departments to the EU's Battlegroup stand-by five times before, so this is not a new issue for us. The budget estimates the cost of the standby shift at around EUR 2.6 million, and Finland pays for participation, but also benefits itself from the development of rapid response capabilities and crisis management capabilities and important cooperation patterns with different EU countries. It is fortunate if there is no real need for combat teams in the future, but Finland still needs to act in such a way that battle groups are actually available if there is a need for crisis somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u46	Mr President! Minister! Finland has a long tradition of peace-keeping and multilateral international cooperation. Our position is well established as a non-military but supporting European foreign and security policy. Our membership of the European Union is a key security policy choice. It is important that we continue to support the strengthening of the EU's common security and defence policy. However, Europe is now carrying a huge cross on its shoulders, because it has failed to create peace and stability in its neighbourhood. The hope of the Arab Spring for better has faded. The dictators have not been defeated, but the non-violent demonstrations against poverty and corruption have been violently suppressed, which has paved the way for terrorists who have been forced to flee their homeland to Europe. Mr President! Social unrest is fuelled by youth unemployment, unstable society, lack of education and health care, inequality and corruption. Anger is brewing and growing if citizens do not have human rights and political influence and hope for the future. For young people, the government can only mean catching a cop. People feel they've been abandoned to their own devices. None of this matters anymore. It is easy for terrorists to recruit more angry people into their ranks, and societies become radicalized. It will then be difficult to secure peace when there is no peace, what is to safeguard, or the parties to negotiate peace with. Europe, together with the great powers, must act in favour of governments on the other side of the Mediterranean giving up the repression of their own citizens and the repression of the opposition. The sale of weapons to war zones must be stopped. It is not enough for some countries, such as Finland, not to do so, but for the international community as a whole to make peace more important than money. Human dignity is indivisible and independent of citizenship. It is always the duty of the public authorities to respect and protect it. At the same time as we send Finnish soldiers to combat forces, we must remember that the hope of change and peace comes not with war but with the strengthening of civil societies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u47	Mr President! Representative My corner said here in his speech that it has been fortunate that there has been no use for combat teams so far. I disagree somewhat with this, namely that there has been no shortage of crises. There would have been use for the Battlegroup concept, but it has not been possible to meet these needs, mainly because of the requirements of this decision-making system. The report does well to reflect on these various reasons why the fighting groups have not been able to be used. Mainly three reasons: firstly, the lack of a unified political will, coupled with the need for unanimity and also the difficulty of obtaining a single picture of the situation; secondly, these burden-sharing issues; and thirdly, the question of the suitability of a stand-by combat unit for a current crisis management mission. Personally, I would estimate that this last obstacle could still be dealt with. I would like to ask the Minister's assessment when you have discussions there with the European Union's defence ministers: do you see the prospect, either in the course of this shift beginning now or later, of actually being able to use this concept?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u48	Mr President! Minister, you answered very well the question of how Finland can quickly take national and its own decisions. Let me be a little more specific about my original question: how does Finland intend to contribute to faster decision-making at EU level in a situation where rapid EU forces are needed? And it is precisely those things that Mr Räsänen has just made very clear: how, within this framework, will Finland contribute to making decision-making mechanisms more flexible and faster so that, if necessary, these forces can be used? I would also like to ask for an answer to my second question: will the government insist that if these rapid reaction forces, combat units, are used in some operations, should these operations have a UN mandate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u49	Mr President! I would have come back to this cooperation between civilian crisis management and military crisis management, or to improve the coordination of the activities mentioned in the Government Programme, which is also important at EU level, as crises are increasingly rapidly changing and also dimly changing and slightly changing in every direction, so that it is not always known when military crisis management is needed and when civilian crisis management is needed. They may also often be needed at the same time. This conciliation work would be very important, bearing in mind this overall security aspect. I would still like to hear the Minister's comments and views on how this work may have been done and how it will be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u50	Mr President! Just like Mr Räsänen, Mr Mikkonen and Mrs Aaltok just now. Yes, since the Battlegroup activities started in 2007, the world has indeed been full of crises. I also find it extremely worrying that the EU is currently in an extremely weak decision-making capacity and that an updated foreign and security policy strategy has not actually been successfully implemented. Now, of course, this global strategy is being created, but today, given the ability of the EU to take joint decisions together and the fact that, at the moment, the values of the EU which are, unfortunately, crumbling, among other things, in the face of this refugee crisis, we would like to see vigorous action by all the Member States to find common understanding that such troops, which exist, can actually be used when they are needed in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u51	Now, Minister, 2 minutes — now really 2 minutes, then from the canteen — please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u52	Mr. Speaker! These questions actually belong to the Foreign Minister, whom I am here to cover, so I am not in a position to answer them comprehensively. Mr Räsänen asked me if I could at all see the possibility of using the EU Battlegroup concept, if I understood the question correctly. If my personal opinion is asked, I do not believe that the British Battlegroup will be used. That's the specifics. But on the other hand, I am not a fortune teller, and things in the world can change very quickly. Representative Aalto asked how Finland at EU level intends to improve this Battlegroup concept and make this decision-making mechanism more flexible. Admittedly, it is a challenging and, in fact, Finland's only way of trying to influence this global strategy and thus to reach consensus in the EU on the development of this concept. Representative Aalto also asked if there should be a UN mandate. I think it is an excellent starting point for every operation, the UN mandate. Representative Mikkonen reiterated his question in relation to civilian crisis management. Unfortunately, these matters do not belong to the Minister of Defence and I do not have sufficient expertise in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u53	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Audit Committee, to which the other specialised committees shall deliver an opinion by 3 June 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u54	Mr President! I was thinking in a few words of general comment when it comes to the annual report. Of course, the look goes to page 45, which talks about public finances, which have undoubtedly defined the national debate in recent years. In 15 years, Finland's GDP increased by as much as 0.5 per cent, i.e. with a small plus but very fragile. Surely there is the greatest criticism of this government this year, what has been achieved, why such major cuts are being made, but, on the other hand, balancing efforts must have been made to create new growth and development. The guidelines set out in the Government Programme, five key projects — employment and competitiveness, knowledge and education, well-being and health, the bioeconomy and clean solutions, as well as experiments on digitalisation and the dismantling of standards — are clear from this report and it is clear that a terrible number of things have also been brought forward. The criticism that is often said that the government does not do enough may not always be credible when, however, there are criticisms of cuts and then there are criticisms that these big things are not moving forward. Even though this issue of regional reform, a huge and historic issue in Finland, is also visible here, and if it is brought forward – when it is achieved – then Finland will finally enter the international stage in the regional structure as well. This annual report does contain an enormous amount of interesting information, and it is important that the Audit Committee and the other committees should then take a good look at it. This is probably a good handbook for every representative of what has been done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u55	Mr President! There has been a debate on the way in which the Board's annual reports have been reported, and I am sure that this debate will be held in the Audit Committee, to which I myself belong, also now in relation to this report. Last autumn, when looking at the previous year's reports, there was a debate that these reports should be developed in such a way as to focus more on the policy implications rather than on the measures taken, to report fewer issues better, to make it more interesting and readable in general and to include a cost-benefit analysis in the reporting process and to use independent experts in this reporting. Well, now it's interesting to see if there's been any change. At such a quick glance it would appear that some progress has been made in this reporting method and has gone ahead, but the new Annual Report mainly lists government measures and resources used. Although I believe that the risk analysis has improved since the previous year, reporting remains inconsistent between ministries. In other words, the presentation should be clarified and harmonised and particular attention should be paid to linking the definition of risks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u56	Mr President! I would just like to briefly agree with Mr Räsänen’s point of view — both of us have little experience on both sides of the table, i.e. the government side, and then here from the Parliament’s side — that there is a place for development here, and it has been said for a long time that more may be needed to focus on just some of the key policy areas and their evaluation and then a little deeper than just such listing. I don't feel the need to leave now. I turned around and started a conversation about whether something had been achieved. Of course it has been achieved when all the projects and legal changes are listed. There's some very technical stuff in there. However, I do not see it as a measure of the success of the government in terms of how much text has been produced. Then, President, I would also like to point out that, as the government is moving forward with very important legislative projects and reforms at the moment, no matter what political opinion they may be, I would consider it necessary, in the interests of the time spent by the officials of the ministries, to reform this government's reporting procedure. Yes, even in the ministries there are in a rather job-filled situation in the midst of these different raves. I would therefore like to see this reform carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u57	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 6/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u58	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 6/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u59	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the church law to make the keeping of the title voluntary for the employer. The proposal must be successful and supported in all its aspects. In Chapter 6 of the Church Act, it is proposed that individual amendments be made to the provisions on church staff. For example, the provision on the right of the official to be free to exercise a municipal trust is amended to include not only the official but also the employee in the contract of employment. At the same time, references to the Local Government Act will be updated to comply with the new Local Government Act. I think this is an important change because parishes are independent, separate legal entities, such as municipalities. If you are currently free to exercise a municipal trust, it must also be allowed for church staff. In addition, it is proposed to add a new provision on employment leave and the employer's reporting requirement to Chapter 6 of the Church Act. According to the proposal, an official has the same right to leave employment as an employee under the Employment Contracts Act. Currently, employment leave has been agreed by a protocol of formal and collective agreements. As employers within the meaning of Article 1 of Chapter 6 of the Church Act are employed by both officials and employees, this point of the proposal is also fully justified, necessary and appropriate. The reform promotes the equality of the church staff in different types of service relationship and clarifies the position of the staff. The proposal also proposes to amend the law so that the keeping of the title becomes voluntary for the ecclesiastical employer. This has been the case in municipalities for a long time. In the future, the provisions of the Registration Act would apply to the disclosure of information concerning the official and the employee. The role of the title book for ecclesiastical employers is no longer the same as in the past, as employers have access to other systems that replace the information in the title. These include, in particular, systems for payroll and other human resources management. It makes no sense for the same data to be collected several times over. Especially with regard to the title book, reforms are considered necessary and appropriate also within the church. I believe that the government's proposal is a successful one and therefore worthy of support. With the government now on a savings line, could not one government proposal in the future also be that church holidays for non - church people would be unpaid, or is this too delicate a subject? At least we could make some savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u60	Mr President! This bill certainly does not arouse any great political passions. Its positive effect is mainly that the position of staff groups in different service relationships in church positions and posts becomes more equal and, at the same time, the position of those who are in municipal trust activities also becomes in line with the provisions of the Local Government Act. All in all, dealing with ecclesiastical legislation here in Parliament: these are things that Parliament can no longer make changes to, that is to say, they can only be accepted or rejected, but it is still good that we still have this connection and contact between the church and the state, which, as it were, can be synchronised with ecclesiastical legislation and then state regulations. That throw from the speaker that church holidays for non-christarians are unpaid is quite extraordinary, since these holidays, of course, and the free ones are not just for church members, but in the same way for all people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u61	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u62	Mr President! Firstly, I regret that my presentation is lengthy because there are two things in this bill. However, I hope to be able to present these in the same speech and at the same time. And I hope my voice lasts because I'm having a bad summer flu. The parliamentary group of the SDP has made a parallel bill for employees posted to the government proposal because the wrong direction of the Government proposal 39/2016 has been identified. The government's proposal contains errors that are not justified in taking them forward. The SDP offers the government an alternative to remedying ill-considered legislative changes and ways of retreating. We felt that it was necessary to intervene in the form of this parallel initiative, even though it is a question of implementing the implementation directive. The impression of the performance is that the government has no ambition to defend Finnish work. If this is not the case, then the government's proposal is a hard ideological flagping out of Finnish work, which I cannot and cannot accept. In both cases, this proposal will go back to history, and it will probably come back to that. The Government is in the process of creating a low-cost labour market in Finland through the minimum implementation of the Directive. If you come to Finland to work, you come to Finland with fair working conditions. The Finnish road transport sector is badly affected by the Government's proposal. We are proposing extending chain responsibilities, as is already the case in the construction sector, including road transport. Both employees and employers in the sector agree. No government party in the last spring elections proposed in their programme the flagging out of Finnish work, Finnish working conditions and Finnish companies. It is difficult to understand why the government wants to weaken the opportunities of the Finnish transport industry to compete. Mr President! Overall, the legislative changes proposed in the Government's proposal represent improvements to the current regulation, but in some respects the government's proposal is too weak and represents the fulfilment of the minimum requirements of the Directive rather than the previous Finnish approach, which seeks to secure the status of posted workers as strongly as EU law allows. The regulation proposed in the draft law is largely general, and only in the construction sector is specific regulation because the directive imposes obligations on Member States to provide for stricter protection of posted workers in the construction sector than in other sectors. We are therefore proposing special rules for the road transport sector which differ from the government's proposal. Although the standards for posted workers do not apply to cross-border road transport, they apply to cabotage, i.e. intra-country transport by vehicle registered in another country. The regulation of posted workers would enable us to ensure that cabotage does not undermine workers' rights and the cost of work and that they compete with Finnish transport companies on fair terms. The regulation proposed in the government proposal is poorly suited to the road transport sector and would leave gaps when it came into force, which would reduce the scope for its application in the road transport sector. For example, the obligation of the posting undertaking to keep the employee’s working time records and pay records available — this is in Article 10 — or the obligation of the posting undertaking to set up a representative available to the authorities in Finland — Article 8 — does not apply if the posting of an employee takes up to 10 working days. Moreover, the obligation of the posting undertaking to determine the determination of the social security of the subscriber in the case of temporary agency work and subcontracting does not apply in Article 11 of the Directive. No notification of posting of workers shall be required if the period of employment does not exceed 5 days — that is provided for in Article 7. Given the nature of the work in the road transport sector, these time limits would in most cases not be met. This would leave the road transport sector, in practice, largely out of the scope of the proposed regulation. Time limits are national additions and are not based on EU regulation. In most other European countries these are not used in the transport sector. The bill therefore provides for derogations from the time limits for the transport sector to be added to the government proposal as follows: 1), Article 7, Announcement of posting of workers. The Government's proposal has a five-day deadline which the Government's proposal does not apply to construction work. We propose that the time limit should not apply to the work of the road transport sector either. 2) Section 8, Establishment of a representative. The government's proposal has a 10-day deadline. We propose that the time limit should not apply to the work of the road transport sector. (3) Article 10, Obligation to keep information on posted workers in Finland. The government's proposal also has a 10-day deadline. We propose that the time limit should not apply to the work of the road transport sector. (4) Article 11; Provision of information to the subscriber in subcontracting and temporary agency work. The government's proposal has a 10-day deadline. We propose that the time limit should not apply to the work of the road transport sector. Mr President! Well, here comes the other thing. The second point of amendment in the draft law is the responsibility of the subscriber for the minimum salary of the posted worker in the construction sector. In accordance with Article 12(2) of the Directive implementing the Posting of Workers Directive, Member States are required to provide for measures to be taken in respect of construction activities, which, in addition to the undertaking that directs the posting of workers, imposes on them a minimum wage and certain other charges. The directive therefore seeks to safeguard the right of posted construction workers to have their minimum wage required by law and collective agreements and to impose on the subscriber in the country of employment the responsibility to ensure that the rights of posted workers are realised. According to the Directive, it is possible to provide that the subscriber is relieved of liability if, with due care, it ensures, for example, the level of remuneration of the worker and the ability of the sending undertaking to pay the workers. The Directive provides for a derogation from the responsibility of the subscriber, which allows the imposition of other "appropriate enforcement measures in accordance with Union and national law and/or practice which, in an immediate subcontracting relationship, allow effective and proportionate sanctions against the sponsor in order to address abuses and fraud in situations where workers have difficulties in upholding their rights". This derogation has been used in the government proposal. It provides only for certain administrative obligations of the subscriber and for the winding-up of the contractor and the main contractor if the employee has not received his or her salary. In addition, it is already in force in the Ordering Liability Act, which imposes certain reporting obligations on the subcontractor in general and which may result in an administrative penalty for the infringement. However, the obligations set out in the Act on Customer Liability and now in the Government proposal do not provide the level of responsibility that the directive seeks to impose on the building sector's subscribers. Moreover, the administrative sanctions imposed on the State ultimately do not benefit the posted worker and do not fulfil his rights to a minimum wage guaranteed within the meaning of the Directive. The bill proposes to amend the Government's proposal to add to it the responsibility of the subscriber in accordance with the Statute of the Directive. In section 15, we specify the responsibility of the contractor and the main contractor in the construction work as follows: "In the construction sector, the contractor must send a parallel responsibility to the company in question in Article 5 for the minimum wage for workers. If the sending undertaking does not pay the minimum wage intended within one month of the date on which it is due, the posted worker shall be entitled to apply the requirement to that effect to the subscriber. The subscriber shall be exempt from liability for the remuneration of the posted worker if it can demonstrate, in an appropriate manner, that the remuneration of the posted worker is adequate and that the subscriber has the capacity to pay." Finally, Mr President. In this presentation of the parallel legislative initiative, I briefly and succinctly pointed out the main points. Act signed by 31
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u63	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very important that improvements be made to the government proposal on the Posting of Workers Directive on road transport and construction. Within Finland's borders, the driver must always be paid wages in accordance with Finnish labour law and the collective agreement of the general-binding truck industry. If and when low-wage companies from EU countries do not do so, this will lead to two unequal markets in road freight transport. Improving the competitiveness of industry and trade cannot be based on the violation of Finnish labour law and the weakening of the transport industry, i.e. the survival of Finnish honest small entrepreneurs. In an interview, Minister Berner said that opening up transport to foreign competition would facilitate transport and reduce costs, benefiting the economy. Such thinking does not support ordinary Finnish small and medium-sized transport companies. This is particularly important for the national economy. Road freight transport is a major tax collector and payer. Of the EUR 6 billion annual turnover of the sector, EUR 2.7 billion in taxes and parafiscal charges paid by companies and employees is returned to the state. It is quite appropriate to ask whether the government has turned its back on the domestic transport sector and whether it intends to make Finnish skilled heavy-duty drivers and entrepreneurs unemployed. Deteriorating the sector would increase government unemployment expenditure and reduce tax revenues. Mr President! A policy that is based on the cheapness of small entrepreneurs and employees is not sustainable. It will not bring about growth and employment. A person who is not certain of his salary does not build a house does not spend money on services purchased from companies, does not buy and spend. In this case, the wheels do not rotate, but stop, as has now happened in Finland. In Finland, we are ahead of the light year in labour law compared to Eastern European countries. I do not think that any sensible person really wants Finland to go towards working conditions and wages in Eastern Europe. Wages are trampled so that the owners of the company have more money in their hands. This is unsustainable and does not contribute to Finland’s goal of reducing unemployment and increasing tax revenues. Today we may need more defenders of Finnish work than ever before. We now need to create a new permanent job, keep to these former ones and take care of those workers who are at risk of layoffs or dismissal. Many Finns are currently living in great uncertainty. The national interest of the country is jobs in Finland. We must get rid of the falsifications, and legislation and its monitoring will enable them if they are to be properly used. It is important to block the lairs of legislation. The easiest way is to prevent them. I guess if there's a will, there'll be a way. Mr President! Building investments employ people, but only then will they benefit the state and municipalities when works employ workers who pay their taxes in Finland. It is certain that in the competitive biddings, tenders will also be submitted by companies whose staff and subcontractors are profit-probably non-residents of Finland and who pay their taxes to Finland. Wages are being trampled on so that the owners of the company have more money in hand, including in the construction sector, and this is intolerable, especially when it comes to public contracts. At the same time, we have many honest builders whose payrolls and subcontractors have no employees and companies other than those paying their taxes to Finland. They offer proper offers but lose in price to the flints. For example, the City of Mikkeli has calculated that a school renovation of EUR 6 million will bring 130 jobs with all the effects and EUR 660,000 municipal taxes to the city’s cashier if the project employs local taxpayers. The State and the municipalities have the full potential to formulate the criteria for calls for tender in such a way as to have a regional economic impact. When calculating the points, the most must be obtained from those companies that do not take a chill. This requires nothing more than a little re-thinking and the application of the already existing criteria that have proved to be effective, and in particular the will to do so. And this will can be increased from this Parliament by imposing mandatory legislation on the subscriber. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen's bill turns speeches into deeds. Parliament must send a clear message to the contractors and to the builders of the works, that the works will be carried out by those who act honestly, and even the subscriber will no longer be able to work out his responsibilities. As a condition for a company's eligibility for a tender, it must be made an absolute requirement that the wages and taxes of the Finnish TES be used in the remuneration of the company and in the remuneration of its subcontractors. It is also good to have an obligation to notify the agreement so that it can be monitored that this also happens, and there must be adequate sanctions for breach of the agreement, so that it does not even come to mind. Changing the rules of the game will step on the toes of modern gamblers, but it is clear that it will be for the best of all, the greatest benefit of all of us taxpayers, and the quality of construction will certainly improve. With employment, paying taxes and increasing purchasing power, Finland is starting to rise. We politicians need to work together and speed up the change in law, attitudes, atmosphere and culture. We must set objectives and link this issue to other objectives, namely employment. Mr President! I hope that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's bill will be passed, as the whole parliamentary group of the SDP wishes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u64	Mr President! "Something good came from the EU. Now, in close cooperation with the future government and the Ay movement, we can significantly combat the black economy and ensure that Finnish companies have an equal competitive position vis-à-vis foreign companies." Thus was Timo Soin’s direct quote on the Finnish News less than a year ago. I hope this is not completely forgotten. However, I must say that there are improvements to the current state of affairs in the government's proposal, but there are also major problems here, which the representative has to deal with. Mäkisalo-Ropponen also made an excellent point, especially in the road transport sector. In the overall spirit of the proposal, the problem may be that it is weak and, in many respects, represents the minimum requirements of the directive. And even if it allows much stronger measures to strengthen the position of Finnish work, it is, of course, a pity that they have not been introduced. The question arises as to whether this is a government line. On the other hand, the Government's proposal is quite problematic from the point of view of this transport sector, and this problem has been raised quite strongly by both the employer and the worker in the transport sector, which I think is a matter of note, and, of course, for a reason, because the government's proposal really means the dismantling of Finnish road transport. On the other hand, there are alternatives, as highlighted in this bill. That is why I am in favour of this bill for the good and good work of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-04-ps-48.u65	Mr President! I very much hope that the government will use this bill now, because this is about the future of the road transport sector in our country. I find it very difficult to understand why the government wants to undermine the competitiveness of our own road transport companies, while the rest of Europe is doing the exact opposite, in other words defending the entrepreneurs of its own country. The change we are proposing to the construction sector is based on the fact that, in so doing, the implementation of this directive does not satisfy the spirit of the original directive, which does not adequately safeguard the rights of posted workers. And it may be that the implementation of the directive in this form will lead us to EU law. Mr President! As I said, I really hope that the government will take advantage of this bill now, because that would prevent two very big mistakes from happening. I understand that, at least in the past, the Finns have always been in favour of customer responsibility and have also been in favour of jobs in the transport sector. I hope that their attitude towards these matters will continue to be the same.
