ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u2	Madam President! The first year of the election period was an exceptionally lively OSCE year. The chairmanship of Ilkka Kanerva under the leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly continued. Finland held a General Assembly meeting in July at Finlandia House, the same place where the OSCE final document was signed 40 years earlier. The meeting place was the same as 75, but the general political situation was quite different. We are all familiar with the challenging situation of the OSCE and the entire international community in the OSCE region. By joining the Crimean Peninsula, Russia has violated the basic values and principles of the OSCE. The position of the General Assembly on the crisis in Ukraine and on Russian activities in Ukraine is clearly enshrined in the General Assembly Resolutions 2014 and 2015. The General Assembly condemns the actions of Russia. Russia has participated in meetings of the General Assembly by means of a high-level delegation. Mr Naryškin, President of Duma, took part in the autumn meeting and this year in the winter session. Unfortunately, no solution has been found to the frozen crises. The situation in Nagorno-Karabakh is becoming more difficult and the situation in both Transnistria and Abkhazia and South Ossetia is unchanged. In future, we should also invest in mediation at parliamentary level. The 2015 report describes the activities, meetings and election observation of the Parliamentary Assembly. The preparations for the Helsinki session, the programme and the topics are set out in the report. The absence of Russia was, of course, extremely regrettable. I will read a brief extract from this report: "The Finnish decision not to grant an entry Following this decision, the Russian delegation sent only one representative to the Standing Committee meeting. Several speeches at the meeting expressed concern about the wider effects of the travel ban and disappointment at the absence of the Russian delegation. In September, the President, Ms Kanerva, sent a letter to the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security, Federica Mogherin. In that letter, Mrs Kanerva asked Mr Mogherin to take steps to prevent the interpretation of sanctions from adversely affecting parliamentary dialogue. In his reply, Mr Mogherini said that each EU Member State can independently assess and decide how to deal with the matter." Immediately after the meeting, the Finnish delegation asked the Foreign Minister for a report and has received a report from the Foreign Minister. The new delegation has continued its active work at the General Assembly. The delegation maintains regular contact with the Finnish OSCE Delegation and receives background information. We have had joint projects last year and, of course, they will continue this year. A seminar on the role of women was held in February and a seminar on the role of women in mediation is to be held in July. There is a separate report on the activities of Ilkka Kanerva as Chairman of the General Assembly. Mrs Kanerva will certainly tell us more about these in her own speech. It can be said that the internal working processes of the General Assembly have been clarified under the leadership of President Kanerva. President Kanerva has ensured that the General Assembly's cooperation with other OSCE actors has been intensified, that cooperation between the General Assembly and the OSCE intergovernmental actors has been brought to a new level, that tensions have been broken down and that dialogue is constructive. Cooperation with the OSCE Election Observation Institution, ODIHR, among others, has taken place in a good spirit and in agreement. Election monitoring has continued and has become increasingly important. The Finnish delegation will continue to invest in this work. The OSCE General Assembly will prepare most of the election observation activities together with both the ODIHR and the General Assembly of the Council of Europe. Parliament’s OSCE and EN delegations are also in close contact here in Parliament. Mr President! Finland has seen the role and importance of women in war and peace early and strongly. Thank you very much for this for Elisabeth Rehn and her long-term work. Of course, we want to see more women in the context of peace than in war, supporting peace and preventing war and, if necessary, making peace and contributing to the development of society after the conflict. Women are no more victims and victims than many men, boys, children or the elderly. Women have an active role to play. It is active in all areas of society, on the basis of democracy in politics and administration, in justice, law enforcement, work and economic systems. We are well aware that gender, equality and equality work are not just about working in women's affairs, but also about the need for effective channels such as media and journalism, civil society and non-governmental organisations. The OSCE delegation will also invest in this this year. In February, as I said, together with the Finnish OSCE delegation, the Enhancing women’s political participation was organised, and during the Tbilisi session, another accompanying event will be held in the summer on the role of women in mediation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u3	Madam President! I think it was a good thing that Mr Paloniemi said very clearly that Russia has violated the main principles of the European Security and Cooperation Conference in occupying the Crimean Peninsula and linking it to itself and starting, in practice, a war in Eastern Ukraine. In my view, this issue should be emphasised even more, because I cannot imagine that the European Security and Cooperation Conference had a more fundamental real decision than the decision that European borders cannot be forced to change by violence. Russia has flagrantly violated this fundamental principle, and this is a good thing to bear in mind. I am in favour of contacts with Russia on a number of levels, but when the talks about lifting sanctions and other things take root, this point I have mentioned should be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u4	Mr President! I would like to thank the Finnish OSCE delegation for their good work. Then what is the problem here: in fact, this formal meeting of ours a year ago, its difficulties and the limited nature of the debate, was not the result of the Finnish OSCE delegation. The problem was that after various rowings and feltings, Finland ended up not giving the Russian delegation, and in particular the President of the Russian Duma, who intended to lead it, the opportunity to come to Finland. This decision was subsequently unfortunate and did not reflect our traditional role and does not seem to correspond to what most of those who commented on the sanctions have said. The Germans, among others, have stated quite clearly, in part publicly, that the current rules allow people to enter the European Union in order to promote dialogue. Now it is worth reading this answer from Mogherin, because it is very talkative in this respect. In fact, he says that the current regulations already allow, do not need to change their coercion, but enable
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u5	Mr President! It is clear that the annexation of Crimea to Russia by the EU, and not even in the wider West, is acceptable. As far as sanctions are concerned, we will not be able to get down the road of lifting sanctions until we take the path set out in the Minsk Agreement. It is important to work towards making progress here. All parties must now be encouraged to move forward. It will have a wider impact on the security of the whole of Europe. I myself am sorry about this OSCE meeting, because in order to move forward, dialogue is needed, dialogue is needed and forums are needed where parliamentarians can exercise this. In this respect, I regard the Helsinki meeting as an unfortunate place. It is very good to take into account this statement by Mr Mogherin, and also the contributions that most other EU countries have made in this regard. Mr President! In this context, however, I would like to thank and congratulate Mrs Kanerva, who was the chairman of the General Assembly, and she is still in office, and her term of office is about to come to an end. I think he has done well and it has been in the interests of Finland that Mrs Kanerva has chaired that. It has also been in the interest of the OSCE, so I would like to extend warm congratulations and thanks to Mrs Kanerva for her good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u6	Let us now take Mrs Kanerva's speech and then proceed with the debate if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u7	Mr President! I thought a little bit differently at first, but in view of this debate, as I walked into this toilet, I came to a different angle. Perhaps it is good to talk about what the OSCE is in relation to the most fundamental security policy challenges on our continent, which is, of course, the main area within which the OSCE's activities will settle down. The most important issue in this respect is definitely Ukraine, Eastern Ukraine and the events in Crimea, because in reality Ukraine is the area in which the OSCE plays the role of the most important international player in the unity of its two Member States, namely Germany and France, and then mainly the actors, namely Ukraine and Russia. Of course, no other international organisation is as strongly involved in the process of events in Ukraine as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe is, with its hundreds and hundreds of operators and, of course, with its very extensive diplomatic and political measures to contribute to the application of the Minsk ceasefire agreement. And this is perhaps the most pressing question on the table right now. The EU is, of course, a second player, but mainly in the name of sanctions decisions taken, and these sanctions are, of course, scrupulously observed by EU Member States within the OSCE framework. The problem is mainly how to get the Minsk cease-fire agreement to work. We even know from the last few hours how difficult the situation in Ukraine has been and how difficult the efforts to resolve the situation in Ukraine politically and diplomatically have been caused by these ceasefire violations and direct fires and massive casualties. In other words, are we in a situation where the Minsk agreement is going down and where all the efforts the international community is making through the OSCE are running into the sand? On the other hand, there are positive signs also on the international stage, of course. I will mention just a few of them: the NATO Council in Russia was just assembled, which gives us a kind of hope for this. The Foreign Ministers of the United States and Russia are currently meeting reasonably regularly, and would you say that the current OSCE Presidency, Germany, also deserves support and confidence in the EU's foreign policy under the leadership of Foreign Minister Steinmeier? But the problem is that the OSCE is currently facing a civil organisation, without armed forces, to defend the ceasefire and to withdraw from the contact line, because open warfare is taking place in Eastern Ukraine. This creates terrible perspectives for the continuation if this is to continue. That is why I have drawn up an action plan in which the parliamentary side could also be more involved in mediation and conflict prevention, and I will present it at this forthcoming meeting to meet in Tbilisi, Georgia, after Helsinki, at the first new General Assembly. This means that the OSCE is the organisation of hope that has the potential to influence this issue together with Germany and France in order to achieve a positive outcome. President, do I have five minutes? [President MariaLohela : Ten. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u10	Mr President! Mr Kanerva has left very little time for this debate, but it is good that we are still discussing this issue here. I too would like to thank the chairman of the delegation, Mr Paloniemi, for his good work and good cooperation with the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe. For my time, I printed out a protocol on Parliament in 2001, when the OSCE delegation's activity report for the year 2000, and I noticed here when Mrs Kanerva said that this situation in Belarus was still unfinished, that even then Mr Kiljunen said that good looks, results will be achieved, and we can no longer afford to wait 10 to 15 years for Ukraine, it is like this frozen situation. The Ukrainians are suffering, and we think that we are getting something done on the speech level, but in practice the negotiations are still in a stalemate. We have to be able to admit this. The situation in Ukraine is very difficult, The situation in Belarus remains extremely difficult. The years pass,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u11	Madam President! I would go into this situation in Minsk and the situation in Belarus. I was there a couple of weeks ago, and the situation now seemed to be very strong, forcefully oriented towards the west, and that is why Minsk's paper has been made there, and they are now offering a place, but the economic situation is holding up quite a bit in Russia. On the other hand, there are things in Belarus that we do not accept here in the West, such as the fact that the death penalty is still in use. But is this the kind of thing that we should open that door a little bit? After all, they are already involved in ministerial cooperation as an observer, and now they would like to become an observer in the parliamentary cooperation of the Baltic States. This is what we have just discussed there, but it seems that today's politicians at least have a strong desire to be closer to the West and to visit the West and also send their citizens to visit the West.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u12	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank Mrs Kanerva for the fine and valuable work that you have done in the OSCE framework under very challenging international conditions. I also think that what you have just said has given rise to further thanks for the fact that you have actively promoted the possibility that, under all these circumstances, there will be an opportunity to attend the next meeting and to hold the very important dialogue in general, and I would also like to thank you very much for this. Just as you have said and a representative. In his previous speech, Heinäluoma said, Finland's policy must be clear in such a way that we want to promote dialogue, we want to promote cooperation and we want to promote debate. This is only the key to the solution, and that is the only way we can move forward, and in that respect I would like to express my thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u13	Madam President! What happened in connection with the OSCE was not just a blunder, it was a big, big foreign policy mistake, what happened then. The criticisms made at that point were justified and now the current hindsight should not be called into question. Finland was struck by the role of Finland in promoting peace processes. Peace cannot be promoted if we do not have the parties at the same table, and in this respect Mrs Kanerva's speech was very much to say that we are now making it possible for people who are parties to be at the table, whatever the place, to be at the table, and in that sense I agree with the praises for the work that Mrs Kanerva has done for this process. We have to keep going this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u14	Mr President! First of all, it is good to say that not everything has gone as it did in Strömsö. One of the most important tasks of the civilian organisation has been for the OSCE to bring the parties to the table. In this regard, the previous General Assembly in Helsinki last summer was ruined by the fact that the Finnish foreign policy leadership was not up to its task, and this is unfortunate for the chairman of the delegation, but also for President Kanerva of the OSCE. In that respect, this was one of the most unpleasant moments for all of us in the delegation, at least my political career. Mr President! Now we are in a situation where we are genuinely seeking a solution, how we can promote cooperation and peacebuilding and the desire to resolve these difficult conflicts. My concern is the same as that of Mr Kanerva in that we are quite at the last beach to see whether the cease-fire agreement can be reached.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u15	Mr President! I attended the OSCE Future Conference in Berlin about three weeks ago, organised by the German ZEIT-Stiftung and the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as an alternate member of the OSCE delegation, and there I heard that the OSCE, which is concerned with European security, has no concrete action in relation to the migration crisis under the German Presidency, which is said to be due to the fact that the objectives of the Presidency, in itself understandable terms, have long since been achieved. However, I would like to suggest that the OSCE should serve as a neutral forum for Member States to discuss issues related to the migration crisis, since we also have key actors from outside the EU, such as Turkey and Russia. Few other organisations have the time to discuss such a sensitive subject as the OSCE would have, but everyone recognises that European security interests cannot in themselves be restricted to Europe alone. In other words, I would like this idea to be given serious consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u16	And let us take a final reply, Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u17	Mr President! Mr Elon's speech is excellently correct, at least in my opinion. As a justification, I would like to point out that, over a week ago, I named the Swiss, a respected, well-known parliamentarian, a migration sub-committee, to work in our organisation, which has about 20 members across Europe, from all over the OSCE Member States, and which is specifically responsible for creating a common vision for the OSCE as regards the problem of immigration. So we're on our way to being better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-29-ps-46.u18	The debate will then be resumed on another occasion. The matter is now suspended because of the meeting of the large committee.
