ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 6/2016 vp, the position on the report is now decided. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 May 2016. With the support of Markus Mustajärvi Jari Myllykoski, Parliament has proposed that the statement be approved by Parliament, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u3	Mr President! The Parliament now has at its disposal the report of the Board of Governors for 2015, and the year is divided into two different configurations for the Board of Governors, before... [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : Dear Representatives, may I ask you to calm down, and what is the occasion for meetings,please go ahead. — — — — Please, Mr Vanhanen. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u6	Mr President! Thank you to the President for presenting the report. Risks were also mentioned here. According to this report, the risk buffers will be strengthened, and that is a good thing. Whenever a parliament has these debates, it is also important to look at these different risks in Finland in a world where we live in a debt crisis. Unfortunately, it is very timely again today because, once again, Greece is at hand and is a very acute issue. That is why I am a little confused that once again the Finnish Government has decided unanimously that an additional instalment will be paid to Greece and further reliefs, reliefs on the terms of the debt. It confuses me in that this is a very contradictory policy from the perspective of the Finns. Before the elections it was promised that Greece would no longer receive any support. A support package of nearly 100 billion was made last summer with the signature of Minister Soin, and now we are seriously discussing the relief of loan terms. How do the Finns respond to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u7	Let us now go to the list of speakers, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vanhanen went through this report by the Banking Council in an excellent way, and this is useful for all of us in Parliament. It gives a good picture of how we are being monitored and, among other things, the thematic articles attached to this document, such as "Thematics 2 - The transmission of monetary policy to the Finnish economy", reflect in an interesting way the impact that international events can have on our own economy. For example, this theme article covers the fact that if the three-month EURIBOR rate rises by 25 basis points, i.e. 0.25 percentage points, what its impact on Finland is. For us, these effects are greater than for many other EU countries. It is observed that the impact of the rise in interest rates on GDP in Finland is slightly higher than in the euro area: if short-term interest rates rise by an assumed 0.25 percentage point, GDP growth in Finland will therefore slow down by around 0.5 percentage points. So these really do have a big meaning, and this is actually what we have been talking about in this Chamber, and I am pleased with the current government that this debt is now being broken down and putting the economy in balance. Our country's economic growth has been very slow historically and internationally for a long time. In recent years, economic growth has been slowed down not only by the weak international climate, but above all by structural problems within our country, such as the ageing of the population and the modest development of productivity. We also need to monitor what is happening in households, and one of the points raised here is the already high level of indebtedness of our households in relation to disposable income. It is good that action has also been taken in these areas. After all, in July of this year, Finland will introduce a so-called mortgage ceiling and other measures aimed at ensuring that we are not in the same situation as Sweden already seems to be, according to some estimates, — Sweden has already talked about the outbreak of the housing bubble and its impact on its own economy. The situation in our country's economy is therefore still difficult. Growth will only start in the coming years with difficulty, hopefully in this way, and will clearly be slower than in the rest of the euro area, which means that the prospects for growth will not be very optimistic. We must therefore hope that the negotiations on the social pact, the negotiations on the competitiveness pact, which are now in the final stages, will produce results and will be as comprehensive as possible. It's a quick way and a quick way to turn our country's wheels around. I personally hope that there will also be real ways forward in local reconciliation, so that the workers and also the unemployed will benefit from it by making the country grow and creating new jobs. Local arrangement is a big deal. When there are a number of members of the Banking Council, under the leadership of President Vanhanen and Mr Zyskowicz, it would be interesting to hear what kind of debate you have had on, for example, the forthcoming British EU vote and its implications for the development of the Finnish economy. After all, Britain will hold a referendum on 23 June to withdraw from the EU and, in the light of opinion polls, the outcome of the vote is uncertain. Since no country has yet resigned from the EU, there is no experience of the effects of the resignation, but I believe that this has also been the subject of discussions with experts and experts in the Banking Council. It would be interesting to hear your thoughts on this at some point during this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u9	Let us take a few comments here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u10	Madam President! Mr Heinonen spoke in a balanced manner, but I would like to comment on Mr Viitanen's speech. Indeed, that report by the Banking Council contains a wealth of information on the Bank’s activities during a little exceptional periods. We live in a time of minus interest, a time of extraordinary financial activity. It tells us that the ECB is now doing its part and more in Europe. This means that the Member States must do more for structural reforms, employment and entrepreneurship. This also applies to Finland, and this applies to Greece, Portugal, all countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u13	Madam President! These French people are crazy — it is difficult to come to any other conclusion when you look at what is happening in France at the moment. The French socialist government, that is, the demarcation government there, is Finnish rhetoric to use forced laws to bring more flexibility to work, so that employment there will be improved, so that young people can have better prospects there. What is the French trade union movement doing? It puts the earth to a halt, tries to put the earth to its knees. It does not say very well about the attitude of the trade union movement there to democracy, but it does say even less well that it would understand the situation in which France — and, for example, France — is being held. Finland — the economy and precisely these structural problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u14	Mr President! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, now that these purchases of aid have been launched, I think it is important to clarify the way in which the bank should take account of the countries in which these so-called purchases have been used most and where the least, and in particular the fact that Germany has come a long way, to the greatest benefit of these purchases. It would be interesting if we could also have an open debate on this, because, in fact, how contradictory this is with what was agreed earlier is, of course, one of the key issues. Well, then, Mr President, I must also draw attention to the fact that we are in a rather special situation with regard to this Greece. Now we are again in a situation where it is suggested that debt relief will not be made, even though it was made. I think this is the paradigm that's here to be wallpapered today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u15	Madam President! I do remember very vividly how four and a half years ago Mr Viitanen's record got stuck in place, repeating how you caught the spike.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u18	The answers continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u19	Mr President! I think that Mr Ala-Nissilä drew attention to an absolutely essential issue. There is now a clear development here that, just when a country is about to get its affairs in order, the patience of the citizens will stop and a government will be elected that will make a complete mess of things. That is what happened in Greece. The people shouted for Syriza's help, and at that point, the positive economic development of Syriza was a total failure. Since then, Syriza has had to revise her own policy, but the problems have continued. Spain has not been able to choose a government for a year, even though the economy was already on the right track, as it were. Portugal is in a similar situation. Mr Zyskowicz has already referred to the situation in France. This is a very worrying trend because, ultimately, this bill will, however, be paid by the residents of the countries that are there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u20	Three more replies, after which we will have to suspend the sitting, and these three people will be representatives of Viitanen, Elo and Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u21	Mr President! After all, this support line for the Finnish people in Greece has now completely rolled around what was said before the elections. Last summer's quote on Evening Sanomat, Mr Mölsä: 'The sums we are talking about would be a clear increase in responsibility. There's no way to get rid of it with a word trickling," Soini said. And Mr Soin said that this also applies to the situation where the stability mechanism would be removed from the ESM for more money for Greece. This has been the opinion of Foreign Minister Soini last summer, after which more money was given,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u22	Mr President! As Mr Mölsä well pointed out, the Social Democrats will not escape the fact that during Prime Minister Katainen's term they were in the government when Finland committed itself to the European Stability Mechanism (ESM): EUR 1.44 billion directly and EUR 11 billion in guarantees. The Social Democrats will not get away with this by accusing others of anything. As far as what this government has decided is concerned, it is true that this government is involved in dealing with the situation in Greece, but precisely because Finland is committed to this ESM. The Finns of Peru, not the Centre, cannot just slip away from it in this government. That word holds up what was done then. Of course, we must remember that the mid-term review was adopted at this stage and that any debt relief will not be decided until later. It was suggested that debt relief had now been decided. That is not true, it is now decided to equalise the payment peaks for these loans, and Finland will not lose a nickel in that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u23	Madam President! Mr Heinonen rightly drew attention to the kind of substantial bills that Finland will have to bear if we do not succeed in this deleveraging and subsequently halting of debt. It is natural for the opposition to oppose all the savings proposed by the government here in Parliament, you can say that. But what bothers me is that only the left-wing coalition of opposition parties was honest in the elections. The Left Alliance said quite frankly that they are against savings and are in favour of further debt, because they believe that it will then lead to a better economy. Instead, the demos, the Greens, for example, are opposed to savings, even though before the elections they did not say they were in favour of continuing and accelerating debt. In particular, I wonder how the Greens bask in positive publicity. They say they have an alternative to these savings. Well, that's strange. I haven't seen it, even though I've been here so many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u24	Mr Viitanen, please give a brief reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u25	Mr President! In these times, it is certainly good to pay attention to debt at home too, and it is therefore very important that the SDP's alternative budget takes less debt than the government takes,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-27-ps-60.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
