ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u1	The third item on the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of the referendum in the United Kingdom. After the Prime Minister's presentation, one round of group talks will take place with a maximum of 5 minutes. Then, in accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, I shall, at my discretion, issue replies of no more than one minute or two minutes, which will be reserved with a V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u2	Mr President! Last Friday, many Finns also rubbed their eyes when reading the result of the British referendum. The people had voted in favour of the EU separation. Few people believed in advance that this would actually happen, even though the situation was always tight and the EU was still strong. The result of the British vote was disappointing for both Finland and the EU as a whole. Britain is an important partner for Finland in terms of both the economy and security. Britain has been alongside Finland to take the Union in a more open, efficient and internal market-oriented direction. It is clear, of course, that the result of the vote will be respected. The British Government is now expected to issue a formal notice of resignation. The aim is for that announcement to be made as quickly as possible. On the basis of this week's European Council, it is possible that the announcement will come in September. Until the notification has been received, negotiations on the separation will not start. A sufficiently rapid advance is necessary to alleviate uncertainty. This will allow the parties to focus on the outcome and the organisation of a future EU-British relationship. As we have seen, the market has reacted strongly to the outcome of the vote, and clarity is needed particularly in this respect. The period of uncertainty shall be as short as possible. With these prospects, the divorce negotiations may last a couple of years. There may be a need for special time arrangements if the withdrawal agreement and the contract defining the new relationship do not enter into force at the same time. Great Britain is a sovereign Member State with its rights and obligations until the date of resignation. Many questions are still open, for this is the first time that a Member State has left the Union. The European Union has not been built for such a day. The separation process must be managed in a pragmatic and appropriate manner. The EU and Britain are always in need of each other, and they want a balanced relationship as close as possible. This week, the EU-27 said that access to the European internal market requires the movement of all four freedoms — goods, services, capital and persons. It was also decided that the Commission would conduct the divorce negotiations on the basis of the guidelines adopted by the European Council. Finland will launch a comprehensive assessment of the issues affected by the change in the British EU relationship and what needs to be taken into account in the negotiation process in order to safeguard Finland's interests. Mr President! The European Union was born in the ruins of war in order to ensure peace and stability in Europe. The French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman's Declaration of 9 May 1950 states: 'The peace of the world can only be guaranteed through creative efforts to respond to the threats to peace'. The declaration was a starting point for the establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community. Its establishment was designed to prevent a new war. Europe must not forget history. At the meeting of the Heads of State or Government, my colleague said: 'A person who does not understand the importance of the EU should go to the grave of the soldiers.' For Finland, membership of the European Union was a political choice by which we were increasingly committed to the Western community of values. The main task of the European Union is to ensure peace, security, prosperity and the rule of law on our continent. The need to carry out these basic tasks has not changed anything. Mr President! The capacity of both the European Union and the Member States needs the confidence of the citizens. Citizens across Europe have been disappointed with the Union's ability to respond to problems. Political culture also needs to be shaken. Too often, the person responsible for the problem is sought further away from Brussels, even though it is the problems that have been caused. The side that demanded the resignation appealed to the national feeling, to the independence and to the empire that they would regain with the separation of the EU. In this respect, the world has changed irrevocably. Globalisation and interdependence connect us in an unprecedented way, and this clock cannot be turned back. Europe and Finland are part of global economic competition. With giants like China and India on the other side, it is clear that Europe must act in a united way. The chilling history of Europe is a warning example of nationalism. We also have to think about how we talk about the European Union. There is much to be corrected in the EU, but there is no need for criticism. The EU slang is difficult to understand. We must learn lessons and take criticism humbly and improve the way things work. If a person has an experience of injustice, it cannot be underestimated. The EU sometimes seizes the lily stalks and regulates matters too lightly. This has been experienced by transporters and farmers alike. The specific characteristics and circumstances of the Member States must be taken into account in the decision-making process in order to make common regulations fair. There is also a problem in the Member States: national requirements are often added to the requirements of the directives. Mr President! The European Union must be large and small in small matters. I feel that at such hinges there is always an opportunity to improve one's own activities. So am I now. Even in accordance with the Government Programme, the Union needs to be reformed and improved, but the government does not consider it timely to amend the Treaties. It is important that we focus on the essentials, implement our decisions and dismantle bureaucracy. The Member States must comply with the agreed rules. Less but better regulation is needed, the deepening of the internal market and the promotion of free trade. We need to move forward on three levels in order to increase our economy and improve the conditions for our companies to succeed in fierce competition. In Finland, as in other Member States, there must be courage and the will to take decisions and implement structural reforms. At national level, the Competitiveness Pact shows that it is possible to carry out major structural reforms, even though it is not always the fastest and easiest way. We also need to see what the EU offers us to promote growth. In my view, after peace, stability and security, the greatest achievement of the EU is the internal market — a common European market where goods, services, people and capital move freely. The internal market is not yet ready, but needs to be developed and the EU must have a common vision of this direction. Much has already been done about the free movement of goods, and that is what we see in our everyday lives. Product selections are good. Competition keeps prices under control and acts for the benefit of the consumer. Digitalisation opens up new opportunities for us. When we used to sell a paper machine across Europe, we first sent the installer and soon the maintenance man after the machine. Now we offer the same services in real time online and offer different support services with large volumes. The internal market must see this rapid development and new business models. We need to think carefully about what is regulated and how. All regulation must be suitable for the digital world, otherwise we will fall off the road and be left at the feet of competitors. In any regulation, the burden must be reduced. We must look ahead and think about where the greatest added value lies and safeguard it by common rules. This same coherent policy must also be implemented in national projects. Thirdly, the EU also provides us with a common commercial policy for the Union, an instrument to act, among other things, on the global market in the face of high demand. The creation of agreements with the United States and Canada, among others, is central to competitiveness and to growth and employment. The importance of an export-driven economy such as Finland is very special. Mr President! EU membership is a political choice that connects Finland to the Western community of values. For Finland, membership was also a security policy choice. This situation has not changed in the last 20 years. On the contrary, Finland's and Europe's security is facing challenges that require greater cooperation with partners, in addition to national arrangements. In its report on foreign and security policy, the Government has outlined the main objectives of Finland's foreign and security policy. According to them, Finland makes choices based on its national interests in its foreign and security policy that contribute to Finland’s security and well-being. Finland actively promotes security policy stability in its neighbourhood. Finland cannot and does not want to isolate itself. These government policies can also withstand Brexit. Finland has been determined to strengthen the EU as a security community. One example of our activity was the statement we made with President Hollande in France two weeks ago. We need closer defence cooperation between the Member States, above all, to develop European defence resources and material cooperation. Until now, the EU's security and defence policy has been, above all, crisis management in global crises. More attention now needs to be paid to strengthening the sense of security for Europeans. In the future, cooperation needs to be stepped up in areas such as the development of military capabilities, defence industry and research, and the preparation of hybrid threats. It is clear that the outcome of the British referendum will also have implications for the EU's foreign and security policy. Many of the effects are two-way. The full achievement of the objectives outlined in the Finnish report requires a longer-term assessment of the impacts and weighing our interests in different situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u3	Mr President! In the history of the EU, a new magazine is about to be translated when Britain is moving away from the Union. Understandably, the result of the referendum gives rise to a variety of feelings. However, it is not up to us to criticise the outcome of the vote, let alone the British electorate. The will of the people should be respected. Here we go. For Finland, however, Britain's departure from the EU is undoubtedly a loss. We are losing a Member State with which we have shared views, among other things, in trade policy and in the dismantling of excessive bureaucracy. In these sectors, there is still and still a lot of work to be done together. One can say that the Union now has a place to look in the mirror. One of the reasons for EU criticism, both in Britain and elsewhere in the EU and in Europe, is that many people feel that the EU is interfering in too many issues, including those that would be better dealt with at national level. The centre does not want an EU federal state. Instead, we want the EU to focus on those areas where it can be of genuine benefit. Security, the promotion of trade and the economy, migration, climate change and terrorism are examples of things we need a united Europe to manage. Mr President! Now we need to invest in three things. Firstly, we need to find the solutions on which future cooperation arrangements with Great Britain will be based. We're gonna have to renegotiate our relationship. There are a number of important issues for us in future British cooperation, such as the continuation of free trade without customs duties and the maintenance of visa liberalisation. It is also important that, even after the separation process, the EU and the United Kingdom are able to work together well to address the security and foreign policy challenges facing Europe. Thousands of Finnish students and employees live in different parts of the island country, and we also have a fair number of British residents in Finland. Nearly EUR 3 billion of products are exported from Finland to Britain each year. Up to a tenth of our forest companies export to Britain. Cooperation and trade must continue. It is clear that uncertainty weighs down consumption and investment across the EU and undermines the conditions for economic growth. The central parliamentary group therefore hopes that the process will start soon in order to eliminate uncertainty and that Britain will submit a notice of resignation fairly soon in the autumn. Mr President! Secondly, we must see what we can do at national level to promote stability and unity in society. As in Britain, criticism is easily directed towards the EU, even if in reality there are often other reasons behind the negative change. It is not all to blame for Brussels. The EU has been a key means of responding to the changes brought about by globalisation and digitalisation in the labour market and industry. At national level, we need to make greater efforts through reforms to ensure that there is no frustration in the face of these phenomena, but that our competitiveness is improved and jobs are created. When our own business is in order, we can keep all Finns involved, increase well-being and withstand various external pressures. Finland shall: During the first year of the Sipilä government, it was brought off the brink of the abyss. The first glimpses of a better future are already visible. The Competitiveness Pact showed that Finland is still able to agree on major issues. Further efforts are needed to bring about the realisation of the economic indicators that will give rise to hope in the near future as new jobs. We need to get Finland in shape. Mr President! Thirdly, we need to reform the EU in such a way that citizens feel that it is a useful project for the Union. Not all the change so far has gone in the right direction. Monetary union has also had its well-known problems. The Centre believes that efforts must now be made to ensure the EU's ability to act, particularly in its core tasks related to peace, security, sustainable development and the economy. Every Finn knows examples of EU bureaucracy and regulation that have gone too far. This is particularly the case for many entrepreneurs, the agricultural entrepreneurs the most. There must be a two-handed reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy in the EU. Implementation needs to be stepped up, the administrative burden needs to be reduced, transparency needs to be increased. The Centre emphasises the principle of subsidiarity as a starting point for development. The Member States must also do more to reform, and the ownership of the various actors must always be a priority. The best solidarity, Mr President, is that the Member States comply with the agreed rules and do what is agreed together. Mr President! All of this must be done with a sensitive ear, listening to both Finland and the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u4	Mr President! First, a sad and serious matter. On Twitter today, Alanko-Kahiluoto, Group leader of the Greens, suggested that the Finnish Foreign Minister acted treasonously. As a group, we call on the President of the Greens, Mr Niinistö, to resign from this statement and the tweeter himself to apologise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr President! To the speech itself. Brexit wasn't born out of nowhere or instantly. On the contrary, it kept coming for years and there were plenty of warning signs. The EU has long been in a bad direction, and the British have now run out of faith that that direction will change. The shock of the EU's problems already began when enlargement to the east was carried out at too fast and early a stage. Warnings about the consequences were not listened to at that time. Enlargement to the east led to large differences in living standards within the Union and internal migration. In the same way, excessive transfers were made between Member States. Great Britain was the main target of migration and the second largest net contributor in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u13	Representative Estonian. — Ladies and gentlemen! Every now and then, a sharp interlude is in order, but a choir call is not really part of Parliament's way of sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u14	Mr President! The result of the British referendum in favour of leaving the Union seemed possible, but it was still a surprise to most of us. The euro area will be able to prepare for new challenges as the outlook for the banking sector, which is already in difficulties in many countries, becomes even more difficult. But now is not the time to panic, but to stop and think about how to get ahead with minimal damage. In the opinion of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, Finland should promote a negotiated solution that maintains as much as possible of the current British European relationship. However, there cannot be access to the common market without the free movement of people, for example. Access to the common market is an economic advantage which, when Britain has resigned in due course, must be paid for, like Norway and Switzerland, through financial contributions from the Union. The EU is not just an economic union. It is a superpower of world trade, but it is also a superpower of development cooperation and the promotion of human rights. By promoting individual rights and freedom and free trade, and by acting for democracy, the rule of law and equality, the EU and Finland, as part of it, are contributing to peace and prosperity throughout the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u17	Mr President! The Social Democrats have a clear vision of the European Union. It must be socially fair and fair. It must be able to generate sustainable economic growth and boost employment throughout Europe and be accepted by its citizens. It must be all of this at the same time to restore people's trust. Mr President! The crises of recent years have given rise to a serious situation in Europe that has not been able to be resolved quickly, either jointly or separately. Giant unemployment, prolonged unemployment, unemployment among young people, cutting public services and weakening safety nets have created confusion, fear of the future and hopelessness in a large number of Europeans. This has contributed to the propulsion of populists, who share the common feature of seeking and pointing out the perpetrators — such as the EU and immigrants — to people living and confused in difficult conditions and making unwarranted promises of repairing conditions. In a situation without view, people in Britain voted. In such a situation without prospects, exit from the EU is offered as a miracle medicine for all difficulties, now also in Finland. Mr President! For twenty years now, the SDP has been a constructive force for Finland to become a bigger influence in the EU. At the same time, we are calling for more and better for Europe for its citizens. The social dimension of the EU, the people's Europe, must be strengthened and its transparency and transparency developed. In this work, we need a proactive and active Finland that cooperates closely with other Nordic countries. Prime Minister Sipilä, I am surprised to see the contradictions in your government's action since Brexit. Our Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks that the British EU separation is a good thing when the rest of the government regrets it. One government party seems to be calling for a vote on the EU divorce, and another condemns it in sharp terms. Prime Minister Sipilä, how do you convince the Finns that your government and all its members are acting in the EU, seeking solutions and constructively rather than tearing down the EU? Minister of Foreign Affairs Soini, tell me now whether your party wants Finland to resign from the EU. Say yes or no, do not wander around or hide behind the forthcoming parliamentary elections. Because of your position, Finns have a right to know about this. Mr President! Britain has made its decision. It has often found it difficult to accept common solutions. It has always sought exemptions, exemptions and discounts. Selfishness should not be admired or rewarded. However, negotiations must be conducted with respect for each other. Europe is always important to Britain and Britain is always important to Europe. If Britain decides otherwise during the process, its return should not be prevented. Mr President! The Social Democratic Movement is a peace movement. For us, the EU is also important because it has maintained and strengthened peace in Europe and peace in the world. Perhaps we have become too accustomed to what our previous generations could not enjoy for decades of peace. As our veterans can tell us, peace is not a matter of course. European The Union is not taken for granted. Many people are now feeding the public the reasons why the EU should be separated. Perhaps it is time, however, to reflect on the reasons why it is worthwhile working together, why it is important to work together to bind the peoples together. There is always something to fix in a good house, said respected President Tarja Halonen. We Social Democrats want to develop and correct the European Union. It must give its citizens more. Our criticisms want to build up, not break, strengthen hope, not hopelessness. There are many things that separate the peoples of Europe. Finding differences does not require much imagination, but responsible, genuinely international political movement strengthens the things that unite us. In this cooperation I also challenge the current Finnish Government and promise to help and cooperate in the reconstruction of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u18	Mr President! Stability is an issue whose value will not be fully understood until it has been lost. Europe has enjoyed the stability and peace that the European Union and its predecessors have brought for more than 60 years. This is one of the longest in European history to build prosperity and prosperity. For our part, we Finns have worked for decades on the edge of Europe to gain a secure position in the European family of nations. Our own history best reminds us that judicial cooperation between peoples is always in the interests of a small state. When the great powers in Europe have struggled uninhibitedly for power, the small ones have been left behind unrelentingly. In the European Union, we have achieved a stable position as a Western democracy, a decision-maker at a common table. That is something we must not forget today. The nation-states that are curling up and arguing within their own borders would not be able to solve the problems of our time: climate change, inequality and poverty, tax evasion and international economic injustices. Together we will be able to do so, and that is what we need Europe, a better Europe. Mr President! It is a great disappointment that Britain decided in the Brexit vote to leave the Union. The outlook for the European economy as a whole has therefore deteriorated. We are talking about jobs, livelihoods and everyday stability for ordinary people, including in Finland. The biggest blow is against Britain itself: according to experts, its economy will fall by one per cent next year and investment will fall by eight per cent as a result of this decision. The decision also jeopardises the export prospects of Finnish industry and raises doubts about the future of the internal market. This uncertainty is not in Finland's interest, and we must do everything we can to restore faith in Europe's future. Mr President! The voice of British citizens must be respected. It is also a serious warning voice for the European Union. Over the last few years, European leadership has focused on problems where people’s daily lives and well-being have largely been forgotten. Strong economic discipline has weakened confidence in Europe. It has also created invisibility through unemployment and inequality. It's left room for populists. Now the EU must invest in investment and employment, creating a future for our citizens. The EU could also help countries to invest when faced with, for example, the rapid rise in unemployment. In this confusion caused by Brexit, the EU can now demonstrate its ability to regenerate. Mr President! The first days since Brexit have shown that the most exploitative populists in the UK. No one has any answers. Racism and discrimination have been reported to increase against foreigners in the country. Finns also say they have experienced them. The Finnish and Finnish governments must do everything in their power to combat this kind of sad development in Europe. Closure only gives power to populists, and they have no other aim than to cause strife, confrontation and tension. We now need stable leadership across Europe, the ability to show the way to a sustainable future together, as Europeans. The speeches that divide the EU do not help, and such speeches cannot now be given by the Finnish Government. It has been difficult to see in whose name the Foreign Minister of our country is speaking during this time. Insinuations in the media about a possible future referendum on Finland’s membership of the EU are detrimental to the Finnish economy and are also detrimental to the stability of Europe and Finland. Finland cannot have two foreign policy lines. The Finnish Government cannot be divided at this moment in our history.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u21	Mr President! You can see the distance from time to time. Yesterday, U.S. President Barack Obama called on Europeans to relax the tight economic policy line and to make a more loose fiscal policy, as this would be wise for jobs and economic growth. According to the Obama Administration, a more revitalising economic policy would be the best way to combat right-wing populism and the dispersal of Europe. Obama's right. At the latest, we need to change the direction of European policy. For the European Union, Brexit can be either the beginning of the current EU end or the beginning of its reform process. Which path will be chosen will depend on all of us European decision-makers. Mr President! Britain's exit from the European Union is bad news for Europe and for European cooperation. The 52% of voters who voted in favour of the EU divorce can hold a lot of different voting arguments. However, the unifying denominator seems to be the desire to protest against the political elite. Although the majority of decisions that undermine citizens' services and livelihoods have been taken at national level, the EU has become a symbol of the development of the last decades, where people are increasingly divided into winners and losers of globalisation. The EU simply has not been able to deliver on its promises to improve the well-being of its citizens. Almost all the Member States of the Union, irrespective of their membership of the euro, have been competing for cuts in public spending over the last few years. At the same time, the tax haven economy has been allowed to flourish and the competition for wage and tax reductions has continued. Both thefinancial and theeuro crisis showed that banks The citizens were kindly forced to accept the rescue of oversized German and French banks in order to avoid the collapse of the entire economic system. The contempt and understatement of voters or the failure to comply with the result of the referendum are not the solutions to the problems that have created this area of protest. On the contrary, contempt is the very attitude that has contributed to Brexit. Mr President! The Left Alliance wants to change the political direction of the Union and Europe. The issues of climate change, migration and the international tax haven economy cannot be resolved within the framework of national state decision-making. This is the moment when European decision-makers must insist that social justice, the well-being of citizens and democratic decision-making be placed at the heart of the Union's decision-making process. You can't go on like this anymore. The Left Alliance is also in favour of reforming the structures of monetary union in order to make it possible for Europe to make an economic policy other than endless cutting lists. At the same time as promoting transparency, transparency and democratic governance in all Union decision-making, it is equally essential to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is implemented. At EU level, decisions should not be taken on matters where it is more appropriate to decide at national or local level. Mr President! Now we know that the EU is not an empire of a thousand years or an ever-expanding force. It is a political community of sovereign states, and we must have the right and the opportunity to decide for ourselves what values it respects and what kind of policy it pursues. A Union that protects banks, financial institutions and capital is a bad Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u22	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Premaminister David Camerons nederlag i folkomröstningen om EU den enstaka mest betydelsefulla hedelsen i Europa sedan Berlinmuren föll 1989. Så raus commenterar Sveriges förra stats- och utrikesminister Carl Bildt brexit och det är latt att hålla med. Storbritanniens utträde är en historiskt revolutionerande heidelse som förändrar Europa. Vad det innebär vet vi inte annu. Kaoset i den Britishska inrikespolitiken verkar totalt. Det tycks inte finnas någon klar plan på hur man ska gå vidare. Kanske man trots allt inte riktigt insåg consekvenserna av folkomröstningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u23	Mr President! Great Britain must now be given time to deal with the political chaos following the Brexit vote. Tempting, exerting pressure, mockery or even revenge will not help either the British or the EU. It is in everyone's interest that relations with the United Kingdom remain as close and constructive as possible, even if the consequences of the decision are realised in compensatory agreements. At least 10,000 foreign Finns live in the British islands, whose everyday life is affected by Brexit. The most important question of today's debate is: how do we proceed from now on? If the EU is to remain the structure of European cooperation, the direction must change. The Union has a repeated response to every crisis: more Europe, more solidarity and more power from the Commission. Many citizens feel that the direction of EU policy cannot be influenced, but that power is concentrated on a few and transparency is lacking. Too often, more Europe has meant that mutually agreed issues are not being implemented and those who are conscientious are facing the problems of others. This is where the measure has been reached, and this is where a turning point is needed. The development of the European Union into a federal state will only deepen the problems and alienate citizens from the European cooperation that we need in so many areas. Many of the positive aspects of European cooperation seem so obvious that we do not appreciate them and the EU as a peace project is no longer enough to justify many. Mr President! One can only ask what has happened to the vision and values of the European project — in the words of Robert Schuman: a community of peoples deeply rooted in the fundamental Christian values. Who kidnapped it, and who allowed it to be hijacked?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u26	I now give the Prime Minister the floor for about 3 minutes, i.e. no more than 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your group contributions. The position of the Finnish Parliament is well in line with the Government's position: Brexit is taken seriously and with moderation, it is now a fact. Finland's place is in the European Union, it is important to us, nobody asked for a divorce. There was criticism of the EU and it should be. I made a table here on this issue, where the first point was the demand for a difference in the EU, and it did not come from anyone, but the criticism then came in different shades. Here reference was made several times to the visit of the Foreign Minister to Britain. I welcome the fact that the Foreign Minister is listening to the representatives of the various sides of the country in a confused situation. So, what's the plan from now on? We now need a pragmatic way forward, on which the Commission's current work programme will provide a very good basis. I stressed at that European Council that we have a good programme, but we have problems with the implementation of the programme, and it was also said from many other mouths that implementation is one of our biggest problems. As far as this criticism is concerned, I think we should be able to have an open and honest debate on the points in which: The EU has gone in the wrong direction and what needs to be corrected and corrected. This debate is a good basis for the EU27 meeting in Bratislava in September, which will then set out these guidelines for divorce negotiations and EU guidelines for further development. But this debate also shows that we do not have major disagreements about the direction of further development either. Better implementation, less regulation. We stress the importance of unity. From these foundations, it is good to move on. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u28	Thank you. That was a second of three minutes. I now give one minute's speaking time to the users of the group speeches that have just been made. Then the speeches to the three ministers, Mr Soini, Mr Orpo and Mr Rehn, and then we will begin the debatable part.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u29	Mr President! It is also a loss in terms of security policy when a significant military force withdraws from the European Union. Of course, it remains to be seen what kind of cooperation there will be in this area, but the minus sign will certainly come up. On the other side, however, it has to be said that, in the development of EU defence cooperation, Britain has been a brakeman, one can almost say a plug. Once this stopper is removed, the remaining EU countries can take steps in this area if they so wish. I do not think there are any giant leaps planned or planned, but some degree of condensation can be done if we wish in this area. Mr President! On this subject: As I read the morning papers, I noticed Minister of Defence Niinistö telling me that a document or agreement on defence cooperation is being planned between Finland and Britain. Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs is also interested in this subject and could have been informed earlier, but it is good that even by reading the papers. It's always worth reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u30	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank President Niinistö for your apology on Twitter. Secondly, there are many people who have asked about this, including Niinistö, what a mix-up this has now come from both the Finns of Finland and the Government. We think we have been very clear. The government's policy is what's included in the government program. We've been negotiating. We are very pleased with that. It is an excellent programme, which is a programme of such a reformist EU-criticism Member State and a Member State that follows it. It clearly rejects the federal state, calls for a focus on the economy, a reduction in over-regulation, everything that makes sense. If the EU were to comply with the Finnish Government Programme, the EU would be in good shape in a few years. However, if we look at our party line and the future, we will not listen to your instructions on what is responsible or right. We make our own decisions. We assess Finland’s interests and do so according to our election program. This government does not decide on the programmes of future governments. Our Love
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u32	Mr President! The Prime Minister really said that we have to think about how we talk about the European Union, and that requires a great deal of responsibility from us politicians when we are campaigning. As an example of this total misdirection of British voters: immigration will not stop, health services will not receive additional funding, there will be no savings on EU membership fees of £350 million a week, the British will not remain the leading country of research if the Brexis are implemented. It was very good to hear from these group speeches that Parliament has strong support for the European Union and requires Finland to play a strong role. This, of course, requires that we also require greater ownership of EU policy from other Member States. In its opinions over several parliamentary years, the large committee has shown the weaknesses of the Union in various sectors and has proposed how to strengthen the Union. Perhaps these statements should also be read a few times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u33	Mr President! In my recent group speech, I said that we Social Democrats want a Europe that must be fair and fair. It must be able to generate sustainable economic growth and boost employment across Europe and be accepted by the public. It must therefore be all of this at the same time. In my own group speech, I put a very serious question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for European Affairs, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Soin about your personal position and your party's position in relation to the European Union, whether it is to remain there or to resign. It is important for you to play these important tasks in Europe, that you are genuinely developing the integration of the European Union, which you have already recorded in your government programme. That is why I really ask you to answer this question 'yes' or 'no' now in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u34	Mr President! The European Union's internal market and free movement have brought us great prosperity, but these are things that are difficult to measure and whose value is such that it is great when it is there, but many people will only see it if it is lost. The cost of Brexit is getting really high, and that is where we must learn that economic cooperation within the European Union is worth defending. However, on this point, Mr President, I would like the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister to respond in more detail: Although you say that Finland has one line, the speeches also matter, the speeches are deeds. Is it true that Finland, as Minister Soini has suggested in the British media, for example, freedom of movement is not a threshold for staying in the internal market? You can be more specific about what you meant. For example, we have Finns in Great Britain. We also have the rights of our citizens to defend in the negotiations. We must treat Britain with respect, but freedom of movement and the internal market have always gone hand in hand. What is the government's line on this? What is required of Britain in the negotiations? We need to find a good partnership, but not at all costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u35	Mr President! I think that the citizens of Europe are now seeking answers from the decision-makers to the question of what will change now, what will be the direction for Europe's future? Prime Minister Sipilä, you said in your own speech that we need more unity, but this is clearly where the EU has failed so far. I do not believe that Brexit is just about regulation, bureaucracy or its quantity or administration, but also about the nature of the policy pursued and the political value choices that have been made in Europe over the last few years, particularly in connection with the management of this completely failed euro crisis. The Prime Minister said that we do not need further declarations. I disagree with you on this. Until now, this social dimension of the European Union has been something that has only been reflected in the speeches of European decision-makers but not in the policy pursued by the European Union at all. I would like answers from the Prime Minister on how Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u36	Värderade Talman! Det är en beklag situation som EU har hamnat i och därför behövs nu ledarskap och stabiliset. Därför är det också beaktansvärt nog att statsminister Sipilä på toppmötet har sett sig tvungen att bjätta att man inte håller på att actualisera en folkomröstning i Finland. Redan det att man sig tvungen att säga det säger någonting om att det har gått fel i informationsgången.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u37	Mr President! Indeed, the direction of the EU must be changed from federal development and from the constant increase in solidarity to a clear body of cooperation between independent Member States. We need a change of direction, we need a loss of weight for the EU. We need to cut red tape, we need to reduce over-regulation. The focus must be on genuinely achieving some added value from the EU budget. The focus must be on research, product development and, indeed, on improving competitiveness, thereby improving employment and growth in the European Union. However, despite its reduction in membership fees, the UK has been a significant net contributor to the EU budget, and now, with Brexit, there is a risk that Finland's contribution will increase as well. In what way does the government intend not to do so? Will you be able to take the line of the Christian Democrats that we are going specifically to reduce this EU budget and EU regulation to a lighter level?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u38	I now give about 3 minutes' speeches to three ministers in order of Foreign Minister, Minister of Finance and Minister of Life. Secretary of State Soini, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u39	Mr President! Let's get some facts started. Britain is currently a full member of the EU with all its rights and obligations. It has not yet activated Article 50, so there is no negotiation process. Therefore, if it is activated, we will not know who is the negotiating partner and who is the Prime Minister. That remains to be seen. Then there's another thing. I therefore have a key role to play in foreign and security policy, and after this Brexit I have had discussions with the French Foreign Minister, with the Nordic Foreign Ministers and with the Baltic Foreign Ministers. I can even list their names and all the other people I meet if that list helps anything. Then what I am going to do in Britain: On the contrary, I think it is excellent that we have a good relationship with Britain in Finland so that we can get information from it and get ideas. I am very prepared, for example, to come to the large committee, the EU committee, to report on these matters, because from what I have heard, there are a lot of misconceptions and misconceptions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u48	Secretary Orphan, about three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u49	Mr President! EU membership is so strategic for Finland that it is enshrined in the Constitution and its first paragraph. For Finland, EU membership is about security and the economy. If we were to consider what the security situation in Finland would be, if we were between Russia and the EU without EU membership, that would not be a good situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u52	Secretary Rehn, about three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u53	Mr President! When we assess the Brexit decision from the perspective of Finland's economy, business competitiveness and employment, as should be done in this Chamber, our national objective in Finland's interest must be that the time of uncertainty, the time of political and economic uncertainty, is as short as possible. It is clear that the will of the people must be respected, that the referendum must be respected. It is just as clear that Europe must not be allowed to drift into the turmoil that the British have now driven themselves to. Britain is expected to make its official resignation without undue delay. This now inevitable divorce is worth taking care of rationally and relatively quickly by moving forward without straining, with fair play on both sides and the other way around. This is why I saw it so that Europe and Finland would be able to cope with this with as little prosperity as possible and so that the European Union could concentrate on the renovation and reform that it undoubtedly needs. At the same time, however, it is good to remember that the tasks for which the European Union has been set up have not disappeared: the peace and stability of the peoples, the freedom and well-being of people. On the contrary, in a globalised world, these tasks are only highlighted. The European Union is needed in today's world, where the problems are big and cross-border. We need a single market for Finnish companies and for Finnish jobs. We must be able to work together to slow down climate change, to strengthen the stability of neighbouring regions. In this work, the negotiating position of the 27 alliances is stronger. Even the largest Member States of the EU are not superpowers on a global scale, but need a Union on their backs, not to mention smaller ones, such as Finland. All in all, the EU must have the self-preservation instinct not to remain a hostage to Brexit for the next decade. For the future of Europe and Finland, it is as important to continue to reform the European Union as it is to agree on an EU-British relationship. It is clear that regulation and too much bureaucracy must be reduced. Instead of red tape, the EU must focus on its essential core tasks of ensuring peace and security, strengthening the conditions for sustainable growth and employment. In an unstable situation, patience and unity are a asset both in Europe and in Finland. The European Union needs renovation, not scrapping.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u54	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u55	Mr President! Minister of Foreign Affairs Soini, I fully agree with you that we should be able to discuss matters in Finland. Of course, it is perhaps a little different whether the debate is a civil debate or whether the Foreign Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister for European Affairs, Mr Soini, participates in it and how he says it. Your attitude, your thinking is important in relation to how you perform these important tasks. In my opinion, I did not get a clear answer about whether or not you are driving the EU apart from Finland. Yes or no? The answer is yes or no. Prime Minister, if I have understood the positions of the three chairmen of the three governments correctly, then you, Prime Minister, considered Minister Soin's trip to Britain to be quite justified and smart and good for Finland. If I understood correctly, Minister Orpo felt the opposite and has also stated it to the public. Now I ask you: what is this government's line, and whether it is right for the Foreign Minister, the European Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u56	Mr President! Mr Brexit started with the fact that even in England the conservative party was in two, when the Prime Minister made the decision to give the people the opportunity to say something about this. That is the original reason, and it is now, of course, good to analyse which factors have led to it in due course. Now, at the summit, the Heads of State and Government rightly took over the reform of the Union. I think this is an extremely good starting point. What is needed is a civil debate that takes advantage of this window that has now opened up to the Union's development in the direction that the citizens want, and there the dismantling of bureaucracy, unnecessary regulation, the introduction of the subsidiarity principle — all of them — must be on the agenda when we start to reform the Union so that its citizens can continue to accept it. This opportunity must now be taken advantage of, and the fact that the Prime Ministers have the task is an extremely good starting point, because the Prime Ministers, if they know what reforms need to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u57	Mr President! It is clear from today's debate that, in actual fact, I did not have the willingness to participate in this plenary session; this is the level of debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u60	Mr President! This Brexit is a shocking event. I won't go into detail, but I'll tell you one good thing. For the first time since Finland’s accession to the EU, Finnish citizens are clearly told how important this EU is to Finland. This is the first time. Now, hopefully, there will be a broad understanding that the EU is very important to Finland, both in terms of security policy and in terms of economics. Which means where the EU, where the interests of Finland are. The Prime Minister did quite well in his own speech. It had very clear notes on how to move forward. I am asking in the same way as Mrs Kaikkonen, when there is new information on this security, which is now a central part of the European Union's activities: how can we understand today's news that Britain and the United States will be our defence partners?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u61	Mr President! The Brexit chain of events could be from Shakespeare’s pen: leaders in their lust for power engage in gambling, the consequences of which will be horrified. But now we need to look ahead and focus on doing things that give people confidence in the future. Even President Obama has warned against excessive financial discipline and that it is creating ground for hate populism. This is something we must take seriously. We must be able to share the results of the economy with more than the richest 1% who have become the wealthiest in Europe in recent decades. This means, among other things, that the EU must act more effectively to curb tax evasion and to curb tax havens. However, it is a mistake to imagine that society and the economy could act more fairly if each nation state alone tried to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u62	Mr President! Unlike Mr Turunen, I consider this debate to be a very good one and even rather united one in this Chamber today. The referendum must be respected, and the EU must now look in the mirror. People outside the UK are also disappointed with EU policy, and the EU seems to be a long way from there, but in reality the EU is here and now and here. I would also like to call on the Finnish Government to be patient. EU countries often hide behind the EU, far behind EU decisions in Brussels, and here in Finland, too, we have an example of a social welfare reform that is justified, among other things, by the requirements of the EU. In my opinion, this is an irresponsible policy, which is precisely what the EU is doing to intimidate its own ideological actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u63	Mr President! In response to Mr Pekonen: I certainly did not criticise the fact that the debate is taking place. Of course, there must be a debate, and it is good for the debate to take place, but it is mainly at the level of the debate whether the foreign minister is allowed to travel to England or what he has said or anything else, that he himself is confused as a representative of the Finnish Parliament as a basic Finn about what is the position of the Finns themselves. I had to Google it from here and see what Soini said abroad. Soini has said abroad that Brexit is a disaster for the EU. That's the last headline in there. The level of this debate is so low that, now that we have a live broadcast, we are trying to send out the wrong message to our citizens. I do not think that this should be the case. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister a second time: should we in Finland review the EU strategy in so far as it seems that some people would like closer integration, such as the Social Democrats and the Greens, or should we?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u64	Mr President! The Prime Minister finished his own speech rather than complaining but being influenced — not complaining, but being influenced. I think that this phrase is very much summed up in Finland's future EU policy and is in line with Finland's long line on these big issues: not complaining, but being influenced. After all, in Bratislava, we will again be meeting with the leadership of Europe in September, and then Finland will have to have a very clear tune in what are the big things in which we are trying to influence and bring forward our own views, which are also in the interests of Europe. The EU is a security community, it is a security community, and that is an aspect that needs to be emphasised very much now. Second, I read this strategy paper. Its title is, in some way, a'stronger Europe'. It emphasises EU-NATO cooperation, ok, but I also sought the way in which the EU wants to re-establish relations with Russia or vice versa. However, this is an important direction for the whole of Europe. My final comment: it is important for us to get our own home base in order to survive in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u65	Mr President! There is no need to go only to the Berlin Museum to understand why we need a united Europe, a unified basis of values. It is worth going around what is the chilling history of Europe. But the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy did indeed deal with a number of issues, and perhaps this requires a new strategy. One aspect was that if this Brexis actually happens and investment in Britain is falling, they are likely to reduce tax levels and try to gain more competitiveness. It seems that Finland's competitiveness must be at a really good level or weak things will happen around here. The second question is: the euro area, the non-euro area. The British were the leading figures or the leading countries in the non-euro area, and clearly the non-euro area is deteriorating. What, then, might happen to those non-euro countries that are members of the EU? Their influence is getting smaller. Is there any movement going to happen that perhaps there will be new Member States in the euro area? In other words, the main question is whether it is perhaps necessary to update the whole EU strategy in Finland pretty soon,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u66	Mr President! In this speech Terho, leader of the Group of the Finns Party, drew up a long list of EU sins in which almost all stereotypes, prejudices, irony, even from tractors, were used in the EU. It gives the impression that the Foreign Affairs Party of our country considers this Brexit to be understandable, indeed a good thing. But what is the Government Party’s position on this, the conclusion of this incident, was still unclear. Should Britain’s road also be Finland’s road? In an interview with Sky News, Foreign Minister Soini said that there is a public debate in Finland about the referendum "open and Loud" — openly and loudly. I see.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u69	Reply from the representative of the Judgments and then from the representative of Terho.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u70	Mr. Speaker! Of course, this Brexit is a big deal, but it should not be exaggerated, it must be assessed. The effects are different from one place to another. I believe that for Finland this is not such a big deal, this will not have such a big impact, as long as we do not get involved in this ourselves. The European Union will get through this. This is not going to bring down the EU, but it has, of course, given them more impetus to bring down Europe. And if it is said that this is a disaster for the EU, then it also depends on the fact that there are those who wish for a disaster for the EU. But the main effects are for England, the United Kingdom. And in view of the fact that the unity of this whole country may be at stake, it is clear that this will be much more to think about for the English, the British, who so decided on the outcome of this vote. We respect this vote, but it will be a long process, and in that time we must also act in such a way as to allow the British as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u71	Mr President! Let us make it so crystal clear that even those who want to misunderstand get it right. There has never been a separation from the EU, never, and never is now. Nor is there a government programme that we are following. Do I make myself clear? If we ever take a line like that, it's a new line. We do not rule out the possibility that sometimes a situation cannot be imagined where it is in Finland’s national interest to consider resigning from the EU or at least organising a referendum.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u74	Reply by Mr Salolainen, then by Mr Vanhanen and then by Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u75	Mr President! Having followed this internal British debate now after this Brexit referendum, I have found that there has been no announcement in the church that this Brexit is happening. There are many reasons why this can still change. Firstly, there is a large majority in this House against Brexit. The nation would be divided into two parts, and the parties are also completely confused. It is quite possible that there will still be a revolution that will prevent this Brexit from happening. Now, follow the way that conversation's going on in there. There are legal and other aspects that must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u76	Mr President! I believe that the other 27 Member States must now be united in relation to Britain as well. They have taken a referendum decision, and when they submit their resignation, then we will proceed accordingly. It's about this unifying message. There has been a lot of discussion here about Minister Soin, but there have been several speeches in this debate which would open up speculation that one way or another this separation will be cancelled. I believe that we must now take the line that was set out in the Prime Minister's speech and also in the conclusions of the European Council: there was no possibility of going on a journey. I don't think it'll do any good. Secondly, as far as Finland's membership of the EU is concerned, it is not unclear, but we know that we also have a huge number of criticisms among our citizens about membership. The criticism is not reduced by the fact that we here are demanding a credo from EU sceptics. We who are in favour of EU membership must clearly be able to justify this membership.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u77	That is what I noticed from the other party, Mr Zyskowicz, who wanted a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u78	Mr President! I believe that we must respect the British referendum and that the Union cannot and must not go into a row or call for a new referendum. In this respect, I agree with Mr Vanhanen. But personally, I don't think the Brexes will ever come true. This leaves the British, not the Union. I think that political developments in Britain will result in the Labour Party, for example, being able to take on its programme that, if it wins the election, it will hold a new referendum. If the Labour Party were to win the elections, it would have full, legitimate, right and mandate to hold a new referendum. Once the British have found out what threat hangs over the disintegration of the entire empire and what all the negative economic effects can follow from Brexit, I personally believe that we will never see the actual Brexit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u80	Mr President! This Brexit has caused a lot of uncertainty in Europe, and the Prime Minister rightly said that it is important that this period of uncertainty should be as short as possible and that clarity is needed now. In order for a small country, such as Finland, to have a voice in the European Union, it is important that the message that leaves here is clear and united. And, Mr President, I do need a little more clarity in this message from the government. It is important that Finland does not send conflicting messages to the world. On the basis of this debate, I am not going to find out what the government's line is or what the government's view is, for example, of the activities of the Foreign Minister. Previously on "The Vampire Mr Sipilä said that the Foreign Minister used a language that should be avoided. Mr Orpo, Minister of Finance, stated that: The trip to Soin was not in Finland's interest. Soini said he'd done nothing wrong, and Sipilä thought it was good that Soini came to Britain. Secretary of State Soini, did you agree on this trip? Was the Prime Minister aware of your visit and does the Prime Minister accept that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u81	Mr President! The British referendum reflected the bitterness and disappointment that many citizens experienced there. This is now in time, and it has been seen in Holland, France and even here in the North. We politicians have a great responsibility. If we cannot first understand what the citizens expect of us, then send out the message, which we believe is the best, then the risk is that we will lose in the race against the populists. According to MTV, Foreign Minister Soini had a few days ago underestimated the lying of politicians by saying that election campaigns are always election campaigns and that it is the responsibility of the media if they spread lies. I would like to ask, in the interests of certainty — now Soini can be the guardian of the media — whether you have really said this. Does it matter what we politicians say in different campaigns?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u82	Mr President! It is really important that Finland is part of the solution in this situation and not part of the problem itself. Here, when ministers convince you that the government has one line and then listens to the speeches, you can see that their content is quite different. I thought Mr Orpo's line was best, by the way, but there was a little too much financial discipline, and there could also be more emphasis on the management of employment. But it cannot be that the government goes into the room first to agree that we now have this line, and then we go to different countries to speak in very different shades, because those speeches are deeds. I still want an answer to the question whether the Finnish Government now believes that free movement and the internal market are not a package, but that it is possible to negotiate with Britain to have access to the internal market without free movement. And if Minister Soini goes more as party leader to Great Britain and then gives interviews as Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, where he says that there is a loud debate in Finland about the EU referendum, is that the government's line?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u83	Mr President! This week, the Finnish Minister of Labour Jari Lindström announced drastic cuts in unemployment security for the unemployed. I can well understand that Mr Soini, the President of the Finnish Foreign Minister, wants to run a completely confused debate on the EU, and to express criticism in that direction in order to forget these cuts on the unemployed — a self-satisfying smile in the ministerial box. This is an easy-to-do policy by Nigel Farage, Boris Johnson, Donald Trump. And in order to underline this, Foreign Minister Soini once again said that if lies are spread in election campaigns, it is the media's job to fix them, that it is in a way all right if you talk through your head. With this in mind, I ask you when you, the Deputy Prime Minister in the British media, said that the debate on Finland's EU separation is strong and loud: where else is this debate going to take place than in the head of Foreign Minister Soin?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u84	I hope that someone from the government front — apparently the Prime Minister — will then respond after the speech by Mr Tuppurainen, Mr Biaudet, and these five, six opposition representatives. Now, Congressman Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u85	Mr President! With the help of the European Union, we can remedy many of the shortcomings. We can curb the tax haven economy, we can curb climate change, we can maintain peace. You don't think we can do better in the world on our own, do you? But, President-in-Office, citizens must be able to count on the good management of our country's European policy. It is a matter of vital importance to us Finns. We are part of the West, we are at the heart of Europe. The destabilising of European Finland does not serve us. It is at least questionable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for European Affairs Timo Soini is visiting the world to open a debate on our country's membership of the EU. This is not the way to serve the interests of the country. The situation unfortunately resembles Cameron's squirming in Britain, where the whole referendum project was the result of the internal pain of one party, the Cameron Conservatives. Does this pattern repeat in Finland when the internal needs of one government party require the opening of a referendum debate? Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, it is your responsibility to make it clear that this is not the way of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u86	Mr President! It is indeed important that we learn from the debate that has taken place in Britain: a simplified Brexit debate, focused on issues such as immigration and the situation of refugees, because extreme right-wing and anti-foreign politicians managed to turn their guilty eyes away from themselves and determinedly create an enemy image of foreigners. The same is true in Finland, regardless of the number or variety of arrivals. The contempt of human rights, the hate speech, the bolder grip on racism and female hatred, even in etabated political movements, make each woman and every minority victim of potential violence and violent harassment. Ensuring freedom of movement is a key, great freedom of the EU, which increases trust and our relations with one another in Europe. That is why the Finnish Government, together with the other Nordic countries, should now actively start building an EU factor in which the values of the Nordic countries are deepened by, among other things, joining the European Union in terms of equality and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u87	Prime Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u88	Mr President! A few questions to answer. Firstly, the representative of Estonia raised this point about how we talk about the EU. That is extremely important. On the other hand, we must allow criticism, criticise ourselves, correct things, influence them. But the fact that we blame the EU for something that is not the fault of the EU is important to separate it from this debate. Representative Niinistö raised these costs of Brexit. The ECB's assessment at that European Council was that this would affect the euro area by between 0.3 and 0.5 percentage points of GDP per year, perhaps for two years, depending on how long this will take. After all, the one-off effect was up to $2,000 billion for that market. Then I will repeat this mandate for Finland and the EU and this negotiation process. First of all, this is a government announcement, which is what came here. It's a government party announcement. That is our position, as I said at the beginning of this debate. We agreed that in September the EU-27 would define guidelines for this negotiation process. The Commission will then have the expertise to conduct these negotiations, and Parliament will then give its final approval. These have been formulated in a single sentence, and the phrase reads:'Access to the internal market requires the acceptance of all four freedoms'. This is a very clear line, which Finland has also adopted. Mr Henriksson, no one at that meeting questioned the Finnish line, no one. I did not receive a single message, not a single call that the Finnish line was somehow unclear. The outcome of the UK negotiations is important for all of us — Finland, the EU, the United Kingdom — and there must be no spirit of tapping in these debates, but we must create:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u89	Secretary Orphan, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u90	Mr President! We had a trio meeting this morning to approve this government announcement. The government has a clear European policy position, a clear position on Brexit. It has been announced today by the Prime Minister to Parliament and can be welcomed. But let me return to the fact that, above all, we need stability now: stability in Europe, stability in Finland. It is about security and, Mr Niinistö, it is about the economy, but security and a functioning economy are the basis for employment and Finland's security and well-being. Three things, three points, we need: But, ladies and gentlemen, Finland and the European Union are in such a serious place that, when we talk about the European Union, about our membership in our Constitution, we must look for the things that unite us today, not the things that separate us. This is absolutely necessary. This is the advantage of Finland, the country of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u91	Secretary of State Soini, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u92	Mr President! I think it is very important that we maintain good relations with Britain. That's three points. The first is that it is the largest military power in the EU. The second point is that it is the second largest economy in the European Union. The third point is that it is the second largest net contributor in the European Union. It is quite incomprehensible to belittle the role of Britain and the importance attached to it. I think it is important to send a message to Britain from Brussels, Finland, London, whatever it is that Finland is a friend of Britain, we want trade, we want prosperity, we want cooperation, we do not seek revenge, we are not bitter, we do not want a rematch. This is in everyone's best interests. That is the whole point of why these things are being done and why these debates are taking place. Mr President! I have also discussed more than a dozen calls with foreign ministers from different countries. All of us have the objective that, in spite of this certainly painful difference in itself — which I believe will happen because both leading Conservative candidates, Theresa May and Michael Gove, for example, have said that this is being followed — it is very important that all countries should take a proper approach to Britain and that negotiations then take place jointly. But I would also like to say that there is no lack of fact that there will be no negotiation process until Britain activates this Article 50. The second point is that, at the moment, Britain is full.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u93	Mr President! In my opinion, after the Brexit vote, the European Union should also stop and think about whether European political decision-makers and European citizens are separated from each other. When you think about this, you are forced to conclude that, in part, this may also have happened. If you think of these so-called five presidents' proposals for a fiscal union and so on, I have the feeling that there is no public support for this here in the Member States of the European Union, and that is why we should stop in Europe and think about the direction in which the Union is being developed. I thought it was very good to hear the Prime Minister's statement, which had a clear direction for Finland: we are a member of the Union, we are not planning a referendum, and Finland is a constructive force in the European Union. Now that the European Union is being developed, Finland should be building the Union and also think about Finland’s interests there and not leave
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u94	Mr President! Finland's place is in the European Union, and our continent also urgently needs it. It is important that history has also been pointed out on several occasions in this debate: as the Prime Minister said, the chilling history is indeed a warning example of an appeal to the national feeling. In Europe as well as in different countries, it should also be understood that there are no hocus-pocus solutions to these complex and difficult issues, neither here in Finland nor in the European Union. We in the EU have succeeded in many things: consumer protection, climate issues, environmental issues. Have we managed to communicate these to the citizens, that is the question. But, Prime Minister, I was disappointed that it would have been good for you to have just responded to your opinion that the Foreign Minister has indeed said that there is a strong debate on EU membership in Finland. Do you think this will promote a clear line in Finland? Here, representatives Kaikkonen and Salolainen have also raised the line of Minister of Defence Niinistö, on which no one has told the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u95	Mr President! The ability to self-criticism is important in politics and I thank the Prime Minister for saying that failed decisions at national level cannot be blamed on the EU. Blaspheming the EU will not help if citizens feel that they are not getting the kind of policy that politicians have promised in the elections. For example, sufficient employment appropriations remain the responsibility of the Finnish Government, even though we are an EU country. It is necessary for all EU Member States to start an open debate on the future of the EU, and the economy and security are certainly important topics for discussion in this debate. However, we must not ignore the issue of inequality, poverty reduction, job creation. These are the issues that are most worrying to EU citizens at the moment. Inequality must be addressed. Similarly, we must invest in social cohesion in the EU and work for all people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u96	Mr President! In this situation, in the name of both the economy and security, Finland must be moderate and decisive, as we have always done in both EU decision-making and bilateral activities with Britain. Britain is an important trading partner for Finland. In March, 4 per cent of our foreign trade was made with Britain. But by any referendum Britain will not disappear on the map and the needs of its 65 million people, such as Finnish paper, cardboard, plywood or sawn timber, will not disappear and disappear. There is no point in dramatizing this situation. Britain is still an important partner for both trade and security. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether a debate has been opened between the Heads of State or Government of the EU on the adaptation of the EU organisation and its budget in the event that Britain withdraws from the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u97	Mr President! In fact, it must be said that the will of the people must be respected, and it is therefore assumed that the Brexis will take place. Then the negotiations will have to start and, if they follow the excellent line of the Finnish Government, many of the EU's problems will be eliminated. However, if this does not happen, is there any economic assessment at the moment, how much will the membership fee increase? On the other hand, if this membership fee rises in other countries, it can trigger a chain reaction from the difference, so I ask: does our EU strategy now reflect this possible changing situation and should it be updated in relation to this chain reaction?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u98	Mr President! Timo as a European parliamentarian Soini was once part of a team led by Nigel Farage. On May 5, 2013, Soini recalled his friendship and cooperation with Farage. Quote: "Pentele, yes, I do sometimes have a bad time with common scoundrels in Strassburg." The colorful expression of Soin’s own expression comes to mind after the referendum on the work of Soin and his party. The youth organisation did not wait many days to demand Finland’s EU divorce. My soini waited a week before she left to meet her "society groups". So, did you meet UKIP representatives, please respond? The Prime Minister represents the traditional EU line. However, contrary to this, last summer, Finland called for grexit to be dismantled, and now Minister Soini seems satisfied with Brexit. Which is the Finnish line? Is Finland a builder in the EU
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u99	One minute's answer or, in fact, one minute's speech or answer, however it may be, Minister Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u100	Mr President! It is a good thing that you, Mr Harakka, have brought this up because you have made false statements in public that I would meet Nigel Farage. It's got clear screens. I have not met Nigel Farage or any of the UKIP members, and if I met them as a civilian, then, of course, we will have the freedom to meet anyone. It does not deprive the Minister of human rights to meet some people. As Secretary of State on that trip, I never met him. And I hope that you, Mr Harakka, who have implied this, will now tell me why you assumed that I would meet Nigel Farage when I did not have such an intention myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u101	Mr Soini, you have now given the wrong witness, because I have not claimed that you are meeting Farage or UKIP representatives, but I have asked what your stakeholders mean when the Minister for Foreign Policy of the Finnish State has never told us who he intends to meet in this extremely delicate and dangerous situation. He's pretending to be a private person he'll never be. A private person doesn't give Sky News an interview.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u102	Mr President! It is very important, as has been pointed out in this debate, that our message is united, and this statement by Mr Soin has now been dealt with quite thoroughly. It seems to me that a central part of the speeches made by the opposition wishes to highlight the differences and not to show how united we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u103	Mr President! I do not think there is anything surprising about the lack of clarity in Mr Soin's position. I do not believe that anyone has been aware for a long time of how the Finns feel about the EU, the euro or NATO. But it is, of course, totally unacceptable that Finland's foreign policy line is unclear. And when Mr Terho here was able to direct the statement that the Finns of Finland are not divorcing Finland from the EU, why could Mr Soini not do so in his own speech? Then, with regard to Mr Orpo's statement on the economic policy positions of the left-wing union, I found it confusingly bad for the recent Minister of Finance. It is sad that President Obama understands European economic problems better than European decision-makers. Europe needs public investment, we need employment, and in this respect this separation of monetary and fiscal policies, which has been done in monetary union, has not been a viable solution. Similarly, the Left Alliance wants to curb financial speculation; we want to curb the tax haven economy so that we do not end up in a situation where countries are in debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u104	Secretary Orphan, I'll have a minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u105	Mr President! A lot of water has flowed in the Aura River that the Left Alliance praises the American economy and its economic doctrines.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u106	Mr President! Representative Harakka, I know who Soini met when she visited Britain: the hotel butler, the waiter and the taxi driver — at least these are the ones she met there. But to the point. During its membership of the EU, Finland has supported British membership benefits by more than EUR 2 billion, i.e. more than EUR 2 billion. With this huge amount of money, the repair debt of the entire Finnish road system would have been offset off or, alternatively, hundreds of farmers would have been able to continue their activities instead of quitting,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u109	Mr President! I think I can agree with the representative. To Mr Töll's speech: the government's line is quite clear. The opposition is trying to color this message here in a way that is not right. We really live in a global structural change that requires international cooperation more than ever. It seems that there are a lot of opinions, little knowledge, a lot of rhetoric, little fact in the world's politics now, and we do not want to go there and deceive people in this global restructuring. In fact, briefly, we also have a momentum to reform the European Union. It is perhaps sometimes, there in Brussels, Luxembourg — I myself have lived there — that is why it is important for us to reform the EU more practically, better to implement decisions, better to comply with its own rules and less bureaucratic ones. I understand that the Prime Minister is on the move, so it's not just the flow.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u110	Värderade Talman! Representative Terho here said that the EU separation is not the line of the Finns. According to these interlude calls, at least for some of the group it is unclear. Do you think there's a night school in this area? Where the EU, there in the interest of Finland — it was a good sentence, and I hope Minister Soini will put it behind his ear. But why is this confusion that has been discussed here? I wonder if it was born from the fact that we did not want to tell in advance who we met on this trip to Great Britain, just as Mr Harakka said?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u113	Mr President! I think we have had enough talk today about Soin's champagne trip.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u114	Mr President! Why is it here that the government is asking for what kind of mandate it is talking about and working on? It is precisely because the government relies on the confidence of Parliament, and a particular picture in Finland is that the great committee acts as the European Union committee. Personally, I would like to see more of these debates taking place here in the big House, and that is why I am thinking of the fact that, when the European Union is often criticised for lack of transparency and lack of democracy, we can actually do a lot here. Minister Soini said he could come and tell us in the big committee. Another representative of the Finns Party said that these issues should be dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Why behind closed doors, why not here, where the public sees and is allowed to participate in this debate? I personally hope that we will use transparency, democracy, especially when we talk about the decision-making of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u115	Mr President! There seems to be turbulence in the hall as well as outside the hall. Mr President! Finland lives from exports, and the forestry industry in particular is the engine in the sector. One tenth of Finland's exports are currently going to Britain, and there are a lot of companies that are currently wondering whether it will be worth investing in Britain and how trade relations will develop in the future. I would like to ask the government whether there is a common policy here. Has dialogue now been conducted with these large export companies so that they too will know what will happen in the future? Will Finland possibly have bilateral discussions with Britain, will we go together with the EU and so away? I would also like you to have a dialogue with these large companies that exist in Finland and which will perhaps then be exporting products to Britain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u116	Mr President! I have very much appreciated Minister Orpo as Minister of the Interior and I hope that I will also be able to appreciate him as a fresh Minister of Finance, but this is a wish that has been dented in two speeches today. Mr Andersson's good speech, which analysed the economic policy pursued by the European Union and its consequences for Europeans and the fact that President Obama has now proposed that consideration should be given to a change in the direction of economic policy, you signed very easily with debt intimidation, a similar simplification of things that certainly took place in Britain around the referendum. This is not responsible action. Do you really think that the economic policy pursued in Europe as a whole following the financial crisis, which has led to tens of millions of people in poverty, unemployment and hopelessness, has been an excellent, real economic policy that should not be subjected to criticism or to change of direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u117	Mr President! Well, I'm glad we've figured out our line now, when we have to ask that question so many times. And it is also nice to note that this trip by Soin has now been dealt with with with sufficient precision. It seems that the most severe consequence of Brexit was the opposition’s view of Soin’s trip to London, which was the most serious. Now we have to look at what's relevant. Willful confusion and misunderstanding do not contribute to anything, especially the future of our EU, which is now at stake. The direction of the EU and the attitude of Finland, they are now the important issues in this debate. Can we still focus on that for the rest of this time? That is why I am opening the debate with the view that we must find this reform of the EU, which is done precisely through trust, the trust of the citizens, mutual trust between the Member States, the legitimacy of the European institutions. Only the way forward can the EU be reformed towards the direction we all want: effective, close to the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u118	Mr President! The London City financial sector accounts for 8% of British GDP. A number of international banks have already announced that they are considering moving operations away from Britain. Goldman Sachs announced the possibility of transferring 6500 jobs, J.P. Morgan 4000 jobs and Morgan Stanley 1000 jobs. The head offices of large international companies have also expressed their views on their relocation, such as Vodafone, which employs 13,000 workers in the UK. The difference in the EU does not bring back jobs but, rather, can take them away. The EU must, however, go to itself, how and why this criticism is due to it. The legitimacy of the EU, its acceptance by the public, is weak if the EU continues to impose legislation on nips. Undemocraticism and bureaucracy are things that need to change in the EU. I therefore ask the government how Finland can best get its message across now that the EU needs to be developed,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u119	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, the media have been called upon to take some kind of action on what it has written or what it has done. It is unprecedented in a country where freedom of expression and freedom of the press are respected. So here I ask Minister Soin: has it been right now that the press has written in such a way that you have said that you have been chairman of the party in Britain? Prime Minister Sipilä, follow-up question: Why do you send the party president to deal with foreign policy issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u122	Mr President! Brexit is a serious matter. Its effects are not yet known, but one can only conjecture about what will happen if it comes to pass at the end of the day. I agree with Mr Töll, who I appreciate, that under these circumstances, especially in view of our international situation, it is good that there is a unified and united position in Finland. But I do not agree with Mr Töll that this debate, as if it were now a debate on the statements and statements made by Minister Soin on various sides and on the line of the government, was in vain. Yes, it is important to highlight the fact that there are currently at least two, if not three, different lines within the government as to how this situation should be perceived. After this debate, I still have doubts as to whether the government is united, the three chairmen of the government party unitedly taking forward Finland's interests in the context of the European Union and Brexit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u123	Mr Niinistö and Mr Räsänen also spoke from the opposition groups. And then we will take the ministerial speeches, at least the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs, to everyone now just one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u124	Mr President! Yes, at least I am motivated by the fact that there is serious concern about how Finland can contribute in this situation to ensuring that Europe’s common future is as good as possible and that stability is restored to the future of Europe, to the everyday lives of our ordinary people, to employment and to livelihood. That is why this debate is taking place that we need to have a unified message. Mr Brexit is very eye-opening in that it will also allow us to reflect on the problems that exist in the EU. The motives on which people in Britain have voted against EU membership have been the issues of this superficial debate and the benefits and outright lies of the EU, that money going to the EU could be returned directly to something else. But there has also been a background for concern about the exclusion, exclusion and increased inequality of people, which is a serious problem in a class society such as Britain. This is accompanied by the rise in racism and xenophobicism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u125	Let's try to talk in the agreed time limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u126	Mr President! One point that has not yet been raised in this debate, however, played an important role in the British Citizens' Dialogue on Brexit, namely the recent European Union policies in relation to Turkey, the decisions taken as a result of this refugee crisis on visa liberalisation and, on the other hand, the question of enlargement. The European Union should now realise that the same reaction will also arise in other EU countries, because: Turkey is in no way mature in this process of convergence or even visa liberalisation because of the lack of freedom of expression, freedom of religion, democracy. When visa policy is a matter for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I ask you, Foreign Minister Soini: should we not re-evaluate these EU decisions on Turkey?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u127	And now for the answers. — Prime Minister on the spot, up to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u128	Mr President! Firstly, the answer to Mr Rinnes is 'yes'. Our common line was set out in the Prime Minister's announcement at the beginning of this debate. Then, Mr Salolainen and Mrs Huovinen, you asked about this UK defence cooperation document. It has nothing to do with this Brexit. They've been preparing it for about a year. It is a general paper that essentially states the current state of affairs. These have been done, for example, with Poland and Estonia. Then, no negotiations really take place with Britain until the notice of resignation comes, that is, the ball is now there in Britain. At the EU27, we have asked it to come as soon as possible, but we understand that it will take some time. Until then, and also during this negotiation process, Britain will be a fully-fledged member of the EU with its rights and obligations. There was also a debate on budgetary issues and the question of membership fees and the question of the Presidency and the speculation of the seats in Parliament. The time for these things will come when this notice of resignation has been received and this process will begin. We will make careful preparations for that September, both in Finland and in the European Union, both in terms of divorce negotiations and then in the direction of development. Last but not least, employment and investment issues were raised here. These are the most important issues in the Commission's work programme. This is precisely the practical issue in which we need to achieve better results, implementation, implementation, practical work. It's obvious that this Brexit will survive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u129	Secretary of State Soini, on site for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u130	Mr President! I think it is excellent and important that the European Union and the United Kingdom continue to work. It is also very important for Finland that this relationship remains good. Our bilateral relations with the United Kingdom are also very important to Finland, and that is what I will promote and respect from now on. I think it is extremely valuable that these contacts exist, and I will never do anything other than strengthen our common interest — if we all benefit from having common objectives, common interests. Mr President! Representative Räsänen: Thank you for the proper question. This is something that needs to be considered in the European Union as to how to proceed. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Alanko-Kahiluodo that, in relation to what you have tweeted, you have since taken a stand and expressed your regret. For my part, the matter is closed and we will never have to go back to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u131	Minister Orphan, on site in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u132	Mr President! First, briefly: It may have been that my answer was a little straightforward, sorry about that. But what I meant, to put it a little further, is that first of all Obama has referred to the surpluses in Germany, where he has spoken of a different type of policy. Among other things, the IMF has continued to draw attention to the fact that the structural deficit in the euro countries is too high and, in fact, public demand has increased in itself since, among other things, 13 years. But what I answered is that you cannot just take the increase in public demand or public spending from there. We have to look at the whole, and then, for example, the reforms made in a dynamic economy compared to the United States are all a prerequisite for an increase in the economy, for an increase in employment, and I want this to be given a great deal of attention in this Chamber. Compare ourselves with those countries where the economy is dynamic and growing. President! Conclusion
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u133	In this spirit of harmony, one last speech, Mr Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u134	Mr President! Harmonically, some of the speeches — Mrs Judgments, Mr Salolainen and Mr Zyskowicz at least — expressed views and scenarios that the Brexis could be withdrawn and that Britain could eventually remain in the European Union. Such scenarios can have their own value, at least if you wish, as I did, that Britain would remain a member of the European Union. But the Finnish Government can only assume that the result of the referendum will be respected and the EU Treaty will be respected. I refer, in particular, to Article 50 and to the negotiation process in accordance with it, which needs to be launched relatively quickly, and Article 4.3, which requires Member States to respect the principle of sincere cooperation in their relations and lives, i.e. the common interest of Europe. This also applies to Britain in the sense that Britain should not drag Europe as a whole with it. Mr President! Finally, it is also best for the opinion and wish of Mrs Tuomioja, Mr Salolainen and Mr Zyskowicz that the European Union should act properly and firmly in relation to the United Kingdom. This is the best remedy for not opening up space for evening milking or unwarranted expectations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u135	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament should decide to suspend the Parliament at the end of this sitting and to meet to continue its work on Tuesday 6 September 2016 at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u136	At this stage, I would like to inform you, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will meet immediately at the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-07-01-ps-77.u137	The next plenary session of Parliament will be held on Tuesday 6 September 2016 at 2 p.m. Have a nice summer, everybody!
