ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u2	First question, Mr Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u3	Mr President! Thousands of blind and visually impaired people live in Finland. They have spent their whole lives, or their entire disability, in need of a different kind of help and support to survive their everyday lives. In addition to those with visual impairments, we have people with physical mobility or hearing disabilities, all of whom also need special services because of their disability. People with disabilities need an assistant at home to deal with everyday matters or when they go to hobbies, theatre or even shopping. Now the government has begun to push for a change of laws. According to it, these disabled people, when they were 75 years old, would no longer receive similar services due to their disability, so that they would not have an assistant in their home or a transport service, for example, to go to the community college every week to sing in the choir. Minister Ruhula, does the government really think that, for example, when it turns 75, blind people no longer need these services they have previously received?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u4	Mr President! A 75-year-old blind man needs the support of everyday life he has so far needed. We are now making a change that is just getting started. It will be about a year, during which these things will be prepared, which have also been made public and which you, Mr Salonen, raised. They are now on the preparation table. This work will be carried out in good cooperation with disability organisations, for example. I have a personal meeting scheduled for early April as part of this process. In the future, people who need services will receive them through a change in the system, through the Social Welfare Act and through the Elderly Services Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u6	Mr President! Minister Ruhula, disability services are not luxury for disabled people. They are a prerequisite for coping with everyday life and also for people with disabilities over 75 years of age. After all, the aim of this proposal is to save EUR 60 million. The savings must therefore mean less transport services for disabled elderly people, less home assistance, less personal assistance and so on or vice versa, in order to obtain the necessary services for them. Thus, when a disabled person who always needs help comes to the evening of his life, it is then that the government will require him to be better able to pay for the services he desperately needs. Minister Ruhula, is it really the case that you are now choosing from all Finns those who are in the most fragile position in this society, disabled elderly people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u7	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term in April, last year, work has been completed on the development of disability legislation, one of which has included an assessment of the state of life depending on age and which depends, for example, on disability and disability. This age limit is always problematic. Every quantity is the size of a group or someone, as is the case in this case, for example, with regard to the transport services that this change will have to cover — for example, when it is limited to 18 cars per month, there are people who would need 25 rides a month, and there are people who would be enough to have 10. As far as this work is concerned, you can be sure that those people who, even when they are 75 years old, need services in accordance with current legislation will receive them, but trust:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u8	Mr President! Some people with disabilities have been in need of services throughout their lives; they are completely dependent on the support of another person. They have needed help in washing, dressing, moving, eating, all things related to everyday life. As one disabled adult person said to me, the person who is near them comes to their skin, so it is not quite the person who cares for him in his everyday life. For this reason, personal assistance, for example, is an extremely important aid to a person. Now, Minister Rehula, you are moving, just as you said, these people, according to the Social Welfare Act, to home care. And what this means in practice is that many people, different people, are visiting them, and we already know that this time is inadequate and this will also cost the municipalities additional costs. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has, for its part, declared that this is your presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u9	Mr President! What will this future change mean in everyday life? There will be an answer at the earliest within a year — at the earliest within a year, when we will first have detailed estimates of what will in practice mean, for example, this issue of the age limit, which has now become the key here. On the other hand, do you, Mrs Kiljunen, and the representatives in this Chamber, trust in the laws that we have laid down, for example, with regard to the old-age service law and with regard to personal services, in relation to the old-age service law? Do we trust the Social Welfare Act, which focuses on tailoring these services individually? If we trust the laws that we have enacted, then those concerns which you, Mr Kiljunen, have raised, will be in vain after this law has entered into Parliament first and then possibly into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u10	Mr President! The direct answer to Mr Rehula's direct question is: I do not trust. If the government says that the government is going to save the elderly EUR 60 million — and we all know in this Chamber that this is a group of people who are very weakly qualified to defend themselves, who are not now receiving any additional services and who, on the contrary, need better services than they are — then there is great mistrust that the government can safely cut EUR 60 million for these very disabled elderly people. However, the fact is that if a person is disabled, he or she is still disabled after 70, 80 or 90 years of age. It's not like that disability's gonna go away. But what happens is that a person’s overall ability to function as a result of ageing is weakened, and it is usually the case that a person needs more care and not less services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u11	Mr President! No matter how many calendar years a person is born with a disability, the situation in life does not change. It is true that even the construction of this change is based on the fact that those people who need help — some need personal help 7/24/365 — receive it when they need it. What form does this change that is being made, with its savings, take? At least one year will pass before we have those details which you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are trying to put forward here. At that stage, there is black and white, there are assessments, there is cooperation with organisations, there is consultation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. In this legislation, too, municipalities will still have a role to play, in the future, after the social welfare reform, for their part in providing services. We would now be confident that the laws that we have adopted together, for example in social services and elderly services, will also work on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u12	Mr President! This week many people have been really shocked, both by family members and by people with disabilities over 75 years of age, about what will happen in the future. With regard to these services, where it has now been thought that they could be cut, I ask now, Minister, once again. It is good that this question is asked many times so that it will also be answered many times. Will disabled people over 75 continue to receive the same services they need, such as housing, mobility and so on?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u13	Mr President! A concrete example that can be found: transport services. They have been set at a certain amount over a certain period of time. I even think it's a positive thing that someone who needs 25 rides a month gets 25 rides a month. One of them's good enough for 10. These are very individual issues. There will be a need for tailoring in the future, and I am at least counting on this approach and on the Finnish model in that, firstly, the protection of legislation exists for everyone, including the disabled, and, secondly, the use of this personal assistant — we are not destroying such a system anywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u14	Mr President! I think that this proposal is so outrageous that, when I first saw it, I thought that this was going to break down overlapping legislation, but if that were the case, the government would not be able to seek savings of this magnitude, up to EUR 61 million for the municipalities. In practice, therefore, with this government proposal, municipalities will change their services to means-tested. Mr Minister, you yourself said in this Question Time that these people will continue to receive the services they need, so I would ask: how can you promise these people services if they become discretionary now? Who will consider these services in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u15	Mr President! We'll have a Social Services Act in the future. We'll have an old-age service bill in the future. It is the responsibility of the people who carry out the services there in everyday life with a disabled person or an elderly person. It is our responsibility here to ensure that we provide sufficient resources in this Parliament for both regional and local government contributions to the future financing of the provinces. It's our responsibility. Then, Mr President, each word will be chosen. But it is also our job — whether in government or opposition — to ensure that the person who really needs these services and is concerned about his future is tried to create that security. Just by making a choice of words, we can influence whether a person is safe at home as an elderly person or as a family with children. Mr Pekonen, we can all influence this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u16	Värderade Herr Talman! Jag förstår att det är många som får service enligt handikappservservicelagen som är oroliga i dag. För det regeringen nu säger är att när man har phyllt 75 år har man inte längre samma behov av service. Man har på gång ett sparförslag, 60 million euro ska spars in, och frågan är hur det ska goras utan att det syns i manniskornas vardag.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u17	Mr President! That background is in the preparation of a document in this respect completed during the last parliamentary term, in April 2015. Among other things, it has assessed the importance of the need for services through normal, natural, daily ageing for each of us and then whether you have been blind since birth or have been in special services since birth. Where it comes from — through this kind of preparation it comes from. And when it came to på svenska, for example, in Sweden, according to the information I have, this age limit is lower than what is being presented here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u18	Mr President! I have had the pleasure and the honor of taking care of veterans and war veterans in institutional and home care for years in my life. When they were older people, it often annoyed the veterans not to enjoy the same advantages as the war veterans. Age had brought many injuries to the veterans, and there was such a gap between them. Now that this Act on Disability Services is being reformed, it is good to remember at the same time that municipalities have an obligation to carry out an assessment of service needs for all 75-year-old residents. How can we here ensure that the desired message gets through, that no one is left behind, and in particular these 75-year-olds from the Disability Services Act would then be in a position to be able to catch them and then get an accurate survey of what services they need?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u19	Mr President! The evolution of the legislation over the last few years has meant that, regardless of the population and regardless of specific legislation, the more tailor-made services are the ones that people are offered. As an example of home service, we have municipalities and sub-regions where we previously went to an elderly person and were told that this and this are what you will get. There is an example of Northern Central Finland, where, for example, the whole home service activity has been translated so that we go to that service plan to make the elderly person's home and ask that here is a tray of what you want here. Thus, when spoken in the vernacular, the whole philosophy has been translated in a different direction. I am confident that the possibility of considering, together with the professionals and the person who needs it, how it is possible to live safely at home, for example, is the way forward in this time of scarce resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u20	Mr President! According to the Constitution, every citizen has the right to care, and we, in particular, have legislation to safeguard the services and security of the most vulnerable people. Now this government proposal is based on the intention to cut the various subsidies for people with disabilities aged 75 or over, including the blind and those with physical or mental disabilities. This means in everyday life that the support services needed for eating, dressing, living and moving start to be paid and some of the services will be limited. Even if they were entitled to these before the age of 75, when they come to the age of 75, these rights would be removed, but that disability, Minister, will not be removed. That limitation of mobility is not going to go away. Can you please, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u21	Mr Haatainen, the chairman of the committee, one part of our work is the ability to speak. Another quality that each individual needs in this task is the ability to listen. The moment we have a government proposal in this House will take at least a year. During that year, there will be cooperation with organisations that are on the skin every day with their own members. Secondly, the preparation which, for example, relates to this age limit will only start. That job takes at least a year. The third thing I have tried to say during Question Time is that we will continue to have legislation, both the Old Age Services Act and the Social Welfare Act, both of which contain the idea and the idea that services that meet the needs of services will continue to be available to disabled people regardless of age.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u22	Mr President! Persons with severe disabilities are most often dependent on a small pension or guarantee pension, and in that sense they cannot afford to pay for housing support services or personal assistance or transport services at the time when they reach the age of 75. What is essential here is that, in the Disability Services Act, these support services are compulsory when, if you go there to the Social Welfare Act, it is a question of discretionary services, and it is difficult to see that, in this economic situation, at least in a balanced way, municipalities would be able to provide these services throughout Finland. That is why I fear that people will be discriminated against here, that regions will be discriminated against. Where are these savings, 60 million, coming from? If you say that in no way will this quality of service be weakened, then from where
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u23	Mr President! One example that, according to the assessment of this base, has great significance is these transport services and the number of them. There are people who will need more services than the current number of services, transport services, but then there are people who will not necessarily need them. I believe and rely on it — not on faith, but on trust — that the people who make service plans for people at municipal level make them available, for example, to provide adequate transport services. Mr President! We currently have many people in Finland who give feedback to each of you themselves, and it has also come to the minister. I appeal to everyone to try to deal with this matter together without intimidation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u26	Mr President! A comprehensive reform of disability legislation is being carried out to ensure that we have a clear law guaranteeing the inclusion and equality of people with disabilities. It was a good thing that the Minister said that this legislative reform, which has already been expected, is starting to take place in such a way as to meet the organisations of people with disabilities. The intention is indeed to maintain the right to services supporting service housing, personal assistance and mobility. And I hope that you will read this press release from the Ministry, in which this is indeed also recorded in writing and in print. It is also important that, when this preparation is taken forward, a proper impact assessment is carried out, and this is also promised in this release. I am not asking whether it is going to be done when it has already been promised, but I ask you, Minister, when this is a matter of concern — and I understand that this is a cause for concern when there are tight savings clothing — do you promise that when this is your proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u27	Mr President! Mr Sarkomaa, the first part of your question is something that must also be raised here. Several governments in this country have written in their government programme that the Disability Services Act and the Disability Disability Act should be coordinated, written together. That work is going on in the Ministry, and it will be completed during this parliamentary term so that we can deal with it in Parliament. Secondly — can I assure you — that every disabled person, both child, middle-aged and older, will be cared for in this country by tailoring service needs, the presence of professionals and their personal assistance in situations where it is necessary. That is the situation we will have after this legislation too, the first bill of which will be around a year from now, when it will be possible to assess it, with impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u28	Mr President! I think it is now, Minister Ruhula, so that your assurances are not enough to remove that concern for the elderly and their families. You say that the content of this package and the ways in which it will be carried out and its consequences will not be visible until one year from now. How can you say in this context that the savings are exactly 61 million and 52 million for this age limit? After all, there must be some factors in the background that lead to such precise millions. Is it true, however, that you have chosen this policy of cutting, in which you are champions, and you have chosen that this section of the population, these people with severe disabilities, should be cut to 61 million, and now you are going to think about the ways in which it is done?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u29	Mr President! First of all, the change whose impact can be assessed at the level of the legislation takes at least one year. Preparation will take at least a year. Impact on practice: how to tailor service plans, what happens in everyday life? It's gonna take years before we know this. We are now in a situation where one part of this — that is not too simple — is the preparation for the coordination of the Disability Services Act and the Disability Act. That work has been going on for years, there are a lot of papers, and that legislative work is progressing. Secondly, the services now covered by this amount of euro: we have a lot of work to do. And if there is anything I can promise you for sure, then this is not the last question-hour debate on this subject. We didn't have the last one until three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u30	Mr President! The fact is that this saving is one of the most serious and, I would say, the most repulsive. If these trips, as Minister Rehula said, were taken, it would mean taking millions of trips away from disabled people. I ask you now, Minister Ruhula: have you, as a responsible minister, accepted this savings that this will actually be made on the services and rights of people with disabilities? And I would like to ask you again that, now that the spending limits are in front of us, would this not be something that should be considered there when you certainly come to the table — I know that — to discuss these savings and allocations? Should this not take precedence over justice? And are you prepared to bring a presentation there to try to moderate this performance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u31	Mr. Speaker! I have used transport services as an example of concreteness, of what is being done to change. If I have said that the whole amount of the euro would be taken from transport services, then I have said the wrong thing. Now we have to wade through this whole range of services, remembering that the person who needs the service, regardless of age, the disabled person, regardless of age, who needs the service — some need 24/7, 365 days a year — will receive it if necessary. We are in a situation where we have to go through legal matters, for example, under this heading of 'qualifying the functions of municipalities', where we look for ways in which, on the one hand, modern services can be improved but, on the other hand, we can find ways in which trust, for example, in those responsible for municipalities, is such that things will come about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u32	I will give the floor to Mr Vanhanen and Mr Lindtman on this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u33	Mr President! The title leather of this subject naturally raises a huge amount of people's concerns, and one might say that this is like a matter of conscience that certainly touches everyone. Now I really want to ask the government that it is the case that the government is not making this cut from the state budget, that there are not 60 million leaving. In fact, the final cost impact will depend over the years on the way in which elderly and disabled people use the services they are entitled to by law and on the cost to society in the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u34	Mr President! This is not a direct budget saving, a state budget saving, but it is being worked on under the working list where the responsibilities, obligations and tasks of municipalities are considered. When looking at this list of disabled people, regardless of age, the responsibility for their care and care continues to lie with the municipalities, but seeking ways in which municipalities would be more flexible to tailor these services, for example. Mr President! Black doesn't turn white, and for example, I don't even try it. This is a serious place. Congressman Haatainen asked me what to do. This change through legislation is being attempted as well as possible, ensuring that the person who needs the services always gets it on time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u35	Mr President! That's right. You don't want to talk black into white. The combination of disability services laws makes sense, as everyone has said, but you have now brought this savings target of 60 million and you are also aiming for this new age limit of 75 years. After all, this 60 million is gone; it is from people's everyday life, transport services, personal assistance. There's no other way. And when you said that this will be done in close cooperation with the organisations, let me quote, for example, the statement of the Union of Accidents and Diseases from last weekend: "The planned weakening is age discrimination prohibited by the Constitution and the Non-Discrimination Act and an inhumane project of abandonment." Minister, you do not just represent these organisations, which represent these people who need these services, for a reason of intimidation, do you? Now tell me where this money is from, and now tell me if you are making savings on all Finns with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u36	Mr President! Organizations don't scare you. Secondly, organizations must speak with the mouth that is the mouth of their members. Mr President! Nor do I go behind the backs of the disability organisations, but the message I have here today has been and will be, is that there is a concerted effort here, seeking common ways of moving forward, ensuring that those people who need the service, regardless of age, receive the services. As a concrete example: a person who needs 7 days, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for personal help will continue to receive it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u37	Next question, Congressman Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u38	Mr President! "To the free-of-charge science of the Free People" on the wall of Finland has always appreciated the pursuit of the highest knowledge, and we have always managed as a civilised nation. In the last election, all parties felt together that education has already been too hard, that we will need investment in education in the future and that there will be no further cuts in education. Finland will rise with the knowledge and skill that will be developed in our universities and research. This government is, however, putting the universities and research especially hard, and this was also reflected in the extensive survey of Helsingin Sanomat last weekend. 50% of professors considered the government's science policy to be a total failure and 42% did not succeed very well. My question is: are you taking the scientific world's cry of emergency for this lack of vision seriously and are you prepared to cancel the cuts in higher education and research?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u39	Mr President! Mr Niinistö, we have been discussing the appropriations in this Chamber for several weeks now. In fact, we now have the opportunity to discuss the matter itself, i.e. the content of Finnish higher education and science policy. Professors presented their views in the extensive article of Helsingin Sanomat, and I read it very carefully. I note that there is, in particular, a consensus that resources are scarce. Of course, this is true at a time when Finland is in debt and when major cuts have to be made. There is actually a shortage of resources, you can say, in all sectors, and it is important, above all, that we pay attention to what is being done and how to do it. Finland currently spends EUR 3.2 billion on higher education and research. At the end of this reign, we spend 3 per cent less. Now it is up to us to consider how we are going to get through this. I believe that this is best achieved by starting to reform the structures of higher education and research and improving quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u40	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u41	Mr President! I don't think it's a good idea to underestimate the size of the cuts from colleges and research.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u44	Mr President! I appreciate scientists and scientists very much. That is why we have launched extensive dialogues with scientists at the Ministry of Education and Culture, the first of which is behind us and new ones are on the way. I think it is important that we should be able to make more use of experts and use researchers in policy making. In this context, we are working on an impact assessment under the leadership of Minister Berner, for example, which will really improve the use of the knowledge base and research in decision-making. As far as these young researchers are concerned, I share the concern as to whether we are investing sufficiently specifically in talented young, ascending researchers. In this context, as part of the Government’s key project funding, I have directed EUR 30 million over three years to be used through the Academy of Finland as a special focus for talented young researchers who would be able to move forward in their academic careers and receive stronger funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u45	Mr President! It is a little unclear when you talk about development, who invented these development lines. I am very concerned that the government thinks that Finland's higher education and science policy can change due to the political cycle. I think that the depression and lack of prospects in the field is due to the fact that you are violating the long-term principle that the level of competence in this country has always been based on the long-term nature of higher education and science policy, which has respected the fact that we have tried to see far enough and with enough eyes. That is why I am very concerned that, when you make extensive cuts and then, with one hand, you give a very small sum, which is less than the special money that has been invested in certain investments during the last term of the government, this will lead to these long lists of universities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u46	Mr President! During the previous term of government, when Mr Kiuru was Minister of Education, the Ministry of Education and Culture prepared a foresight report on the basis of experts. It put forward a number of proposals for measures, i.e. proposals from experts on measures such as the structural development of higher education institutions, the clarification of university profiles, the clarification of the division of work between universities, in particular research and science. These issues, these experts' proposals, are right now the issues that I, as Minister of Education and Culture, am taking forward, unlike you, Mr Kiuru, during your previous term as Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u47	Mr President! It is good to say that Mr Grahn-Laasonen quite rightly said that a road map has been sought which does not depend on political conditions, but when you do not carry out this political road map except with the help of this government and when the problem is that the road map, which was drawn up with real expertise, remained on your desk only where appropriate, and when this was done in March just before the elections, the Minister at that time unfortunately had no more parliamentary basis to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u52	Mr President! I spoke about this report on the future, which was carried out in the Ministry as an expert. Instead, it was based on numerous assessments of our research and higher education policy. There are recommendations from the OECD for Finland, there are recommendations from the Commission for Finland, there are recommendations from international review panels for Finland, and there are on the basis of our own, including the Science Status article from the Academy of Finland. They all have a lot of common denominators, and they specifically point to the need for structural reform of higher education institutions and the need to clarify profiles — they were already in use in your day. Now I would ask Mr Kiuru — or, in fact, I would ask if I could ask, when this is not the opposition Question Time — where were your actions then last season? Did we spend a lot of four years?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u53	Mr President! Mr Kiuru talks about the need to have a parliamentary group. But there has been a little change of attitude during this reign: not by making these decisions in the ivory tower, but by involving our field, the best experts, in making that change. In the course of the term of the Government, it has mainly been started to give room for our universities of applied sciences and universities to create their own cooperation structures. They haven't gone to stop them from making that change. I would prefer to say that it would be our job to have a new vision in our higher education and science policy, not necessarily in parliamentary terms, but, above all, by involving our players in the living strategy process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u54	Did the Minister recognize the question?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u55	Mr President! I share this view of the continuing need to brighten the vision, but I also think that it will not necessarily be the best time for these visions to be made by politicians alone, but I think it is important for the scientific world to participate in this and for us to offer them opportunities and engage in dialogue with them, to find those common denominators and the way forward. One good example of this is the structural development that is now under way in Tampere. Tampere is currently carrying out a so-called T3 ( Tampere 3) project, where two universities are merging and a polytechnic is becoming part of the same structure. Here we can achieve quite significantly such benefits that we can prioritise and invest specifically in research and teaching, i.e. those core tasks, and seek out the savings that inevitably have to be made in times like this, from the structures and so on. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u56	Mr President! The student allowance is being cut by a quarter. Between 3000 and 400,000 people are unemployed from universities and universities. These figures are not explained by the words 'hey, we are developing' or 'hey, we are reforming'. These are surgeries. This is the end of our training. This is the end of our student support. But there's been a little flash now. Today, the advertising agency published a new page, the civilization of the future, in which Minister Sanni Grahn-Laasonen says: "We decided to start with civilization." I hope that this does not mean that we'decided to start with the cuts', but that this means that when you have taken this decision today, you will bring a proposal to the spending limits committee to cancel the cuts in education and student support. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, I am satisfied with a simple 'yes' or 'no' answer. Answer "yes" or "no". Are you bringing the cancellations of these surgeries into the spending limits?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u57	Mr President! One of the good behaviours of parliamentarianism is that we here are not dealing here with the issues of the coalition, but with the position of the government. But when this issue came up, I would point out that I believe that dialogue and debate are needed in all sectors about what our future culture policy is, what kind of know-how will be needed in the future, what these skills are. I want to have this debate in all sectors: I want to have it with the scientific world about the future of science policy. I want to have a discussion with Finns about what they expect, for example, with regard to the development of the education system. Tomorrow we will publish information on the expectations of children and young people for leisure activities, including in the afternoons of schools. We have extensive material: thousands of children and young people have been able to answer So the need for this dialogue is continuing and I want to be open to it. There are also various websites on the Internet where you can participate — Mr Arhinmäki, please join us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u58	Mr. Speaker! Of course, this surgical debate has taken place quite a number of times. In that respect, we are in the same boat as the previous government: the previous government had to cut out of education. This government is going to have to cut out of education. Of course, the next stage of this debate should be that when these resources do not increase significantly in the near future, how can we achieve more with less — that is a big issue in Finnish education. We are now investing quite heavily in these key projects, as the Minister has said here. And when the original question concerns higher education institutions, a particularly strong investment is made in the top projects of higher education institutions. Maybe there's another way to think about it. We have long maintained the idea of better linking small and medium-sized enterprises to this innovation activity, i.e. to R&D&I investments. It would also provide R & D & I inputs in Finland to rise, such as an innovation voucher
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u59	Mr President! We have already had discussions with the chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, Mrs Puumala, as to whether we could try this kind of innovation, where universities of applied sciences and businesses in particular, possibly SMEs in those regions, could start working more closely together and achieve more together. This has also been discussed with Mr Rehn, the Minister for Industry, and we have plans to allow these pilots to get started. I think they would be positive new openings, along with the many other openings we are making at the moment. Really at all levels of education, starting with early childhood education, we are constantly trying to find
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u60	I would like to add two more words to this question, a little exceptionally to Mr Kiuru and then to Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u64	Mr President! In fact, in this case of Helsingin Sanomat — as I said — I understand it well — professors criticize the cuts in appropriations. It is clear that every decision on surgery is criticised and, in most cases, still quite well founded, because this cutting is not a nice thing to do, as has been noted. But in this situation, where At the moment, Finland is, we absolutely must find new solutions, because if we continue to do so and continue to do so, then we will soon have nothing left of this welfare society of ours, but the foundations of it will be destroyed. That is why these new ways of working are being sought, and I would also like to see Mr Kiuru here referring to the work that experts are doing, that we should go along with this. Let us listen to our experts and, on the basis of this, let us make a policy and try to ensure that our education system also endures this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u65	Mr President! Let's hear the experts and cancel the training cuts. We Greens were serious about the election and we are really disappointed, together with students and academics, that you failed the educational promise, you failed the promise that education will not be cut off again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u68	Mr President! A lot has already been said, but let me say that we are constantly visiting the Ministry of Education and Culture, our officials, our political leadership and then the university field, a good debate on how we can cope with this difficult situation together. These discussions have been conducted with the National Library as well as with the management of the University of Helsinki and with all other parties on how to proceed. I think it is important that we keep this link in place and that we have such a broad-based view of where Finnish science policy should be taken in the future. That is why I have already mentioned these scientific dialogues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u69	Next question, Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u70	Mr President! Finland will only rise by working and creating new jobs. Unfortunately, however, this has not been the direction of Finland. Today, we heard the grim news again when we heard that the state-owned company Posti is again reducing its employees, which means that almost 700 jobs are being reduced from the state-owned company and nearly 200 employees are being part-timed. Workers' concern for their own survival has rightly grown, and more and more needs to be done with less and less. Is it right for employees to be exhausted and, at the same time, managers to receive a monthly salary of up to EUR 50000? Rather than constantly harassing workers, should we not listen more to them in the development of postal services and in the correction of problems? [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : Well, Minister Berner would have the floor,but is the question correctly asked?]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u73	Mr President! The Postal Act is now being reformed in two stages. In the first phase, the position has been taken that a postal licence can be obtained in the future by means of a notification-type procedure. This is intended to ensure that new postal services are created, even on a regional basis, where this is also possible for small and medium-sized enterprises. The second phase of the Postal Act is still in the study, and we are currently going through both the Postal Directive and the various possibilities to develop the postal sector widely. In this context, we will hear from all parties, including the competition authority, FICORA and also personnel organisations, as well as Posti and other actors in the sector. This first opportunity is, in fact, now on 21 March, after which we will assess how the second phase of the Postal Act will be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u74	Next question, Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u75	Mr President! In its January integration programme, the Coalition Party pointed out that training immigrants also requires a review of our language skills requirements. You said that qualifications and language skills requirements in Swedish will be examined so that the requirement for bilingualism does not become an obstacle to employment in a situation where it is not actually needed. It is clear to the True Finns that any changes in language requirements should apply equally to all. Now I ask: is the Ministry of Education going to find out in which qualifications and posts the Swedish language requirement could be waived?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u76	Mr President! What you may have referred to at the beginning of this question is that when we consider our integration system to be based on what kind of paths immigrants come to Finland to get into education and work quickly, there have been some points where these language skills requirements, for example, prevent them from being able to take part in some education. I would see that in the future that structure could go further so that we could integrate that language teaching more and more into that education or work. In other words, this type of change of thinking — which is also very commonly reflected in other Nordic countries, for example — was a question of this issue, which I understood you were referring to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u77	Congressman Wallin, next question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u78	Mr President, ärade talman! Fimeas, alltså tidigare Läkemedelsverkets, huvudorts placering har väckt mycket discussion allt sedan 2009. I tisdags fick vi höra att social- och älsovårdsminister Hanna Mäntylä föreslår att Fimeas huvudort i framtiden skulle reserve Helsingfors i tillet för Kuopio.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u79	Mr President! I have indeed made my own proposal on this issue this week as the minister responsible. As far as I am aware, I am the fifth minister who is now dealing with this issue, and I no longer want to take on this kind of time supplement, but I want a solution to this issue now. The next point is that my proposal will be dealt with by the Regional Coordination Group, which I hope will be the end of this month, on which I have indeed asked for an opinion. Then the next step is that the matter will go to the Government, and then decisions will be expected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u80	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u81	Thank you, Mr President. — The Government's proposal for a law on the joint construction and use of network infrastructure implements a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of costs for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. The proposal would contribute to the development of digital services and functions by reducing, in particular, the cost of building high-speed communications networks and reliable electricity networks that are required for their operation. The proposal is not only as such worthwhile but also a good indication of the way in which joint European legislative work supports and develops our national legislation. The debate on the development of the information society and the necessary digital loop is very often separate from the facts of the economy and society. By painting images on the horizon, where information technology and IT applications change the basics of the economy from work and becoming a free utopia, you get very blogs and overwrites. By mixing the professional language of consultants and the slogans of future research with them, the stories sound unspeakable. It is excellent that, for once, we can examine the real basis for making the future. Access to efficient sharing of network infrastructure will contribute to the very foundation of the information society needed for future growth. Future growth is built on knowledge. The work of the future can be enhanced through the digitisation of many tasks and stages of work. All of this requires, however, that the flow of information has effective channels, that digital services have market places. That's what this is all about. Mr President! Rapid electronic communications networks are a national issue. However, they are also a regional issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u82	Mr President! Indeed, this is very simply readable in the report, which it contains. In short, it is about the fact that, at the same time as the electricity grid is being drawn underground to protect against storm damage, fiber optics would also be drawn, so that we can really catch up with this development and growth of telecommunications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u83	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mr Jalonen, in his own speech, has already briefly explained what this is really about. The construction of network infrastructure in the form of joint construction is indeed to be welcomed. There will then also be a reduction in costs for more than one party and, in fact, it will be very clear from the committee's report that it is precisely as a condition that the costs, as far as they are concerned, do not become excessive for any party, but that the distribution of costs can also be viewed objectively. The second point I would like to raise is that it is important that we also have a central information point in the future, where we can find out where these information society networks are going — that this information is for everyone and that the information network is also secure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u84	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk about stable electrical networks. In fact, there was a wide-ranging debate in this Chamber in time about the desire to strengthen electricity networks, and now, for understandable reasons, there has also been a debate since then about the fact that they have also increased electricity distribution prices. However, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, I think it is justified that, at this stage, we should also strengthen our network connections. It makes sense to pull the fiber into the ground when it is opened and action is taken. Today, recent studies, studies on people’s wishes and behaviour also support the desire to do more telework. For a while there may have been such speculation that telework might have gone boom in some way, but it is different. People hope that they will be able to work in the countryside, in the peace of the countryside, but also increasingly in leisure homes, in summer homes, and then stable connections will be important. I personally hope that solutions other than these fibre solutions will be sought, because they will not be covered by individual houses, and we need a range of stable wireless systems, new technology, to ensure that cottage housing, which is not covered by the fibre, is also at the end of stable connections in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u85	Mr President! It must be said immediately to Mr Heinos that, of course, we have a wide range of network structures. Of course, it has noticed from the countryside that these wireless connections, especially when terrain patterns vary, are very weak in some parts of the place. The more fiber can bring those network connections even closer to the base stations or pull that fiber all the way to the corner of the house, the better the connections, of course. It's a cost factor, isn't it? Mr. Speaker! I have had the opportunity to participate in such a broadband network project at the Southern Ostrobothnia Association and also in a few seminars all over Europe. It is precisely there that we have taken up this message about how it is worthwhile to build fibre networks on the cooperative basis and thus enable them to be better connected to citizens, businesses in particular, and also those teleworking connections mentioned by Mrs Heinonen, so that people can work as far as possible from there as far as possible from home or from their leisure home. It is a good thing that legislation is being promoted here and that these costs are being considered to be the best possible level playing field for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u86	Mr President! I absolutely agree with Mr Savola when he comes from the countryside himself, from a municipality where there are plenty of free-time residences where there are few cottages. At that time, as Mr Savola pointed out, it is a cost issue, it is not possible to make fibre of this type of connection. In my own municipality of residence, I was given an example of such a system of Thundernets, which then creates more functional alternatives to this type of structure and stable networks where speeds do not vary. There are certainly such models and examples, and in this sector technology is developing very fast. I personally hope that no decisions will be made in any way that it will soon be stated that this technology is obsolete and that payments will rise to such a high level that no one will use it anymore. In that case, investments will be unnecessary. In that sense, this drawing of light fiber is justified and reasonable, the technique is not outdated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u87	Mr President! After all, these broadband networks are comparable when telephone networks have been pulled across the country in the past, and these are essential in order to be able to live and live around Finland in the future. From small businesses to large companies, these connections are vital, let alone, in view of future social services and all the other services that look forward to their own responsibility and the fact that they will be available at home in the future. It is a good thing as such, but this infra does not correspond to it at the moment. After all, the Broadband for All project was good in its own right, but the money was totally inadequate, as was this obligation and the objective that it would not cover 100% of Finland but only a certain proportion. After all, this objective has already been achieved in practice, but the truth is that we have a lot of municipalities in which even in the urban area the networks are not working enough now. In fact, when you think about getting this fast computer network in your hands in Finland, these mobile and wireless connections are really good, but if they have more than one user, you don't have enough bandwidth for everyone, and that's why these fixed optical fibre connections are also important. Operators have not been able to build these connections, because they have become overresponsible for it, then money will not be enough to run them in companies when, for example, the State has not been able to re-establish these state shares in the construction of this lane expeditiously, as it was intended. I believe that consideration should be given to whether the state should be obliged to shepherd these operators, even if by legislative means, and whether this universal service obligation should be extended to sufficient bandwidth and genuinely cover the whole country. This could be one solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u88	Now, I would ask the representative to move on to the floor if he is going to continue. Unless, then Congressman Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u89	Mr President! Clearly, these national operators, what we have, do not have enough interest in this 100% broadband connection, to which this project referred. During the last period, when I was also following up on this project, the interpretation of what is an accessible broadband connection varied when discussing with these operators and operators. It will come close to that, but not necessarily to the consumer, but it can cost an excessive amount of its own costs. When Mr Jalone, the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, is here, I would like to ask Mr Jalos what action the committee is now taking to get these broadband connections really into the countryside. Are cooperatives in that region — cooperatives partly owned by municipalities and people — that means? Or do you believe that these commercial companies of ours really get these services to the bottom of the road?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u90	Mr President! This is one measure in this big package. And above all, if and when we want to digitise our society, it will require development from our networks, both in terms of fiber and wirelessly. If we want to be pioneers in the development and even production of robot cars, for example, at some point, it will require wireless technology, but that wireless technology, in its well-sufficient and comprehensiveness, also requires a fibre network, so it goes a little like it goes hand in hand. But I do believe that the operators themselves also want to see Finland as the world's number one and to develop this further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u91	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u92	Mr President! The Government's proposal for legislation on the student selection register and the national database of higher education institutions and the amendment of the law on the organisation of the matriculation examination register — could be said to be in the same spirit as the debate just now, i.e. the same aim: digitality and new functions over networks. There was unanimity in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and I would like to raise a few points. Firstly, the aim of the government proposal is to ensure that the transition to an electronic matriculation examination is smooth from the point of view of legislation, while at the same time updating existing practice and changes caused by an electronic matriculation examination and also clarifying certain interpretations of the law. The government's proposal had no financial impact in itself. A few picks: For recording the test results. The trial performances of the matriculation examination constitute a vast set of personal and confidential data which is not regulated by the existing legislation on the matriculation examination. In this respect, this matter can be corrected. A few aspects rose from the student’s perspective: Today, when you want to get a copy of the test performance, it costs 32 euros. It emerged from the expert hearing that something could be done in this context, as it may often be that the fee requested for a copy of the copy would weaken the possibility for the candidate to study his or her probationary performance afterwards. The development of information infrastructure in the administrative sector was also one of the subjects under consideration in the committee. The Ministry of Education and Culture and the Finnish National Board of Education are currently working together on the reform of the national registers and register legislation in the administrative sector, and the aim is to create such a common centralised integration service, Koski, where information is to be collected on existing registers, student selection register, student examination register, the national database of higher education institutions and new registers to be established. In future, therefore, we will be able to get all the information about the pupils under one database. You can say that this is a big step from the students' point of view. What was on the table is that it is particularly important that we also have the management of these information infrastructures clearly in one hands, and the committee wanted to emphasise the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Culture for the development of the information infrastructure in its administrative sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u93	Mr President! This bill is intended to ensure the transition to an electronic matriculation examination, i.e. a kind of digital leap in the matriculation examination, which is a great thing, and we can be proud of it, and this has already attracted attention in the world. Thus, from spring 2019 onwards, the matriculation examination must be completed in full with electronic terminal equipment. It relates to the operation of the electricity networks discussed earlier here, namely the electronic matriculation examination, of course, requires reliable data transmission and it also requires secure data protection. Here too, Mr President, it should be pointed out that this electronic matriculation examination, the related data transfer, must also be secured in all parts of the country, including the northernmost and easternmost regions. Like the Committee on Civil Liberties, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I would like to draw attention to the ex-post examination of the test performance. The committee drew attention to payments. At the moment, a copy of your own test performance costs EUR 32, and it may be too high a threshold for many to get their own examination to see, and now that this matriculation examination becomes electronic, it would be appropriate to assess once again these fees for information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u94	Mr President! Personally, I would rather say that at last — in my opinion, this is not something that can be boasted in Finland with this digitalisation. Even this spring and next spring, that is, two more springs, young people who are used to digital writings take a pencil leap and defect to do those matriculation writings with a hand game in a country like this, where we have been pioneers in this sector, really everything else. As a former teacher, I remember well how computers came to school. For the first time in the 21st century, those who now have access to the entire electronic matriculation examination have been born, and before them, perhaps ten years old have already lived through their lives during phones, most of the time on smartphones, during tablets, and today, quite often you get to see how your 3-year-old child uses the tablet with a good finger, but there are wonders in the magazine when the picture doesn't change by touching the picture. Yes, you could almost say that this digital leap is not a leap for our high school students, it is a day-to-day leap, and I myself say,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u95	Mr President! Mr Heinonen is absolutely right that a young person born in 2000 is beginning to be a part of the digital generation to which the machines belong, part of everyday and everyday communication, and in that respect they have completely new ways of working, which must also be taken into account in our teaching. It is not just the fact that we have access to an electronic matriculation exam, but equally the question of how our teaching will change in the years before it, how it will be used as part of education as part of digital tools. In this respect, it even means that we can have more and more mass study courses in the future in upper secondary schools, which are offered on a national basis. They could be studied anywhere in our country, and then there would be contact teaching sessions with others to do. We are in the face of quite a major reform and it is good that the government has recognised this and that we also have a key project in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u96	Mr President! This is a good example of digitalisation, which is also one of the top government projects, so an important reform. In other words, this legislation relating to the matriculation examination would be amended so that tests can also be carried out by electronic means in the future and by electronic means from 2019 onwards. Now, in the context of this reform, I believe that the possibility of misinterpretation is substantially reduced, and it is also likely that the time taken to correct the tests will be reduced, at least in the long term, as a result of these planned changes. I therefore consider this proposed legislative amendment to be an important step towards a modern approach to the completion and correction of matriculation examination. I think it is high time that this was done, as Mrs Heinonen has just pointed out in her speech. After all, there has been a very long public debate on this issue and, fortunately, we are now moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u97	Mr President! Here is a good example of how many things that have been talked about and prepared for a long time can now be moved forward, and this issue, for example, has not spoken in any way between the opposition and the government in particular, but is such a worthy proposal that we want to take forward. As far as digitalisation is concerned, it should be borne in mind that this is only one step, a small step in that direction. However, in general, if you go to other forms of education too, especially on the primary school side, you must remember that schools around Finland are still not in an equal position to have enough equipment or skills for teachers. That is where this need comes from, and teachers are particularly looking forward to improving their skills in this area. This is why the government wants to invest in digitalisation in particular and in the competence of teachers in this area in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u98	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Firstly, the chairman of the committee, Mr Haatainen, will speak, and then we will go along with the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u99	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to repeal the Act on Qualifications for Social Care Professionals, and in future the Act on Social Welfare Professionals, which entered into force at the beginning of March, will provide for social care staff. The Act on Social Care Professionals contains provisions on the granting of the right to pursue the occupation of key categories of social welfare care, registration, guidance, supervision and supervisory tasks. This Act on Social Welfare Professionals has now laid down the criteria for the legalisation, registration and supervision of key social welfare professions, and thus harmonises the regulation of professionals. Thus, the task-specific eligibility criteria will be transferred to the granting of the right to engage in a profession and to the protection of the title. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes in its report that the primary objective of the legislation on professional qualifications for staff must therefore be to meet the service needs of customers and to make full use of the expertise of trained staff. This objective and the reform of the division of labour have not been sufficiently promoted by the Social Welfare Qualifications Act to be repealed, which defined the terms of reference and eligibility. In adopting the new law, the committee felt that it would provide flexibility and better enable the structure of tasks and division of labour to be reformed. The Committee also considered it important that, as social and health care integration deepens, the Act on Social Welfare Professionals and the Act on Health Care Professionals should be further harmonised and subsequently merged into a single Act on Social and Health Care Professionals. This would ensure the quality of services, the equality of professionals and the rights of different customers and customer groups. The committee points out that the amendments that are now being adopted are not intended to restrict the rights of the various professions. The repeal of the old law does not in practice narrow down or limit the number of social care professionals responsible for assessing the need for services. The Act on Social Care Professionals provides for the right to temporarily pursue the occupation of social worker. One of the points in the Action Programme "Reduction of the responsibilities and responsibilities of municipalities" contained in the Government Programme is the relaxation of this Act. The Government's proposal does not contain any proposal to amend this provision of the Act, since the reasons for the proposal state that the matter will be resolved in the context of the implementation of the operational programme. The committee is pressing for the implementation of the operational programme — a debate was held on this issue. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that Parliament adopt the legislative proposals contained in the Government proposal without amendment. This report also contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u100	Mr President! It is a good thing that the regulation of social and health care professionals is harmonised and that eligibility requirements per function are shifted to the granting of the right to engage in a profession and to the protection of the title. In this way, the quality of services, the equality of professionals and the rights of different customers and customer groups will be safeguarded. Further development of the function structure and division of labour between the various groups of social and health care workers should be pursued. These reforms must not, however, be based on short-term savings targets, but should be primarily aimed at meeting the needs of customers and making better use of their expertise. The customers of social and health services must be able to rely on the good quality of the services and the competence of the personnel. Mr President! According to the Act on Social Welfare Professionals, a person studying for a social worker's occupation may temporarily work for a maximum of one year, who has successfully completed studies and practical training in social work. The student operates under the management and supervision of a social worker who has graduated from the profession. The Government Programme includes a programme of measures to reduce the tasks and obligations of municipalities. One part of it has been mentioned is the relaxation of this so-called substitute item. Although this amendment is not included in the government proposal, the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health calls for the implementation of the operational programme to be speeded up. However, we do not have any information on the more precise content of the operational programme, nor has the committee consulted the first expert. The situation therefore does not give the committee any reason to rush these measures. That is why we did not accept the committee's report on the operational programme and the urgency of this matter. That is why our objection to the report states that the signatories do not support the mention in the committee's report. Mr President! It is our view that this substitute should not be rushed, nor should it be made possible for a person with insufficient social skills to be replaced. There is a risk that an increase in the number of staff with insufficient social training will weaken the quality and effectiveness of social care. In the Act on Professional Workers, the regulation of the right of access to the profession is limited to professional groups whose tasks involve the exercise of public authority, the restriction of the rights or self-determination of the customer and other forms of interference with fundamental rights. The tasks of social care are based on legislation that social care workers need to know. In addition, employees must master the right procedures. This requires that the law clearly secures the necessary professional competence. If a social worker is not required to have adequate studies in social work, the authority of the person responsible for the social worker's duties should be limited to a significant extent, which is difficult from the point of view of working life. The Social Care Professionals Act also aims to ensure a clear division of labour and function structure in social services. This is not possible if the law does not ensure the competence of an employee working for a social worker in all situations. The fact that social services have shown too much flexibility and, in practice, an endless number of replacements has not contributed to the development of task structures. Municipalities have been able to prepare for the future law, and some municipalities have been well prepared, for example in Vaasa, where paid-free social workers are granted leave. When an employee chooses a research topic that develops practices, both benefit. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is also in the process of preparing structural recommendations. There is no point in stopping this good development now. As a result of the social and health reform, services become centralised in larger self-government regions than the individual municipality, which have better access to qualified social workers to carry out the tasks provided for by law. Thus, the concerns expressed by individual municipalities regarding access to eligible social workers are partly unfounded. In addition, the Kela transfer of income will affect the job descriptions of social welfare professionals in the coming years. Here are a few comments on the committee's report and the operational programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u101	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law on the repeal of the Act on the Qualifications of Social Care Professionals is related to the objectives of the Government Programme to dismantle over-regulation. In addition, it is accompanied by a replacement proposal which should adequately safeguard the legal security of public service users and the quality of services. The starting point for the show is fine. The objective of simplifying regulation must be supported in itself. However, attention must be paid to the fact that the reform of regulation does not break down standards that are relevant to social objectives. In a word, the dismantling of standards is an accurate work that must be done carefully. In this case, it would have been appropriate to prepare the proposal carefully and consult experts also as regards the right of temporary employment in the social work profession under Article 12(1) of the Act on social care professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u102	Mr President! This government proposal on the eligibility of professional social services staff does not now give entitlement to the occupation or replacement of a legalised social worker, even to those with a higher degree in social services where the degree is focused on social work. There is a great shortage of labour in the sector, and therefore the proposal that we now have in hand is perhaps not quite enough. Yamk degrees in polytechnics produce qualified professionals with a total of five years of education, who also have at least three years of work experience between lower and higher qualifications. Now that the opposition has lodged an objection, it has in a way been submitted to this record, which was made in committee specifically for the possibility of examining, for example, the possibility of working temporarily in the social work of such graduates in the field of social services, because we have a situation where this is possible for a university student now, but not for a professional who has graduated from a university of applied sciences, and this is a bit absurd. In this respect, I do not think that this issue, which has been objected to, is justified; it is a pointless intimidation, because the reason why this entry for which the objection has been lodged was originally precisely this, which I have just pointed out, is that, for example, such a person who has completed an university degree could really substitute for the social sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u103	Mr President! This government proposal must be supported. This is in line with the fact that we currently have a lot of service needs in Finland on the social side and that not enough people are able to provide these services to citizens. This is a good and worthwhile proposal from that point of view and, in particular, the need to move forward quickly in health services. Consider, for example, family carers who are currently unable to find enough replacements when home service workers are unable to substitute for family carers in an appropriate way. This message has come strongly from the field, and family carers are exhausted in the absence of these services. As far as this proposal is concerned, it is a good thing that there has been an active involvement in this drafting of the law. But does this not include the fact that, in the case of Article 12, when it comes to reducing the responsibilities of municipalities, this will normally be discussed at a later stage? Otherwise, in order to reduce these obligations, it is precisely in the case of deregulation that it is a question of making it easier for service providers and recipients to meet, but we will not compromise on safety in any case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u104	Mr President! First of all, I would like to correct the basis for our objection here. First of all, for university students: they must successfully complete their studies on the subject of social work and practical training. For example, in polytechnic studies this situation is different. The content of polytechnic studies makes this difficult. We have, for example, a polytechnic degree in which this emphasis is on education, for example, the competence of a kindergarten teacher. When a person goes on from a kindergarten teacher’s qualification to a higher university of applied sciences, he goes on with his studies, for example, as director of a day care centre. In practice, there may be a situation where he does not have these necessary studies in social work, which may lead to the possibility that, for example, there may be a person with a higher university of applied sciences degree who has no experience or education in child welfare. That is why this issue must be resolved in a different way than the way that has now been put forward here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u105	Mr President! It is now the case that this particular issue, raised by Mrs Kiljunen, was not addressed here, but was specifically stated that this would be mapped out later. In that respect, I do not think that this was a place of protest, but if you wanted to object, it would have been if you had actually made such a change, which I personally consider to be sensible. We will see how long this society can afford to restrict itself to such a precise level of professionalism, which is the situation. Of course, the basis is also for what Mr Kiljunen said there, but one could always give some thought to the case-by-case consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u106	Mr President! Just as I said earlier in my speech, our objection is precisely to this programme of measures, the programme of measures by the government, which deals with the relaxation of this substitute. And since we have not heard a single expert in committee dealing with this programme of measures, we do not think it is right for this issue to be rushed, because we do not have any information on this content. Our protests are now focused on this programme of measures and on speeding it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u107	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-17-ps-26.u108	Mr President! This bill concerns the amendment of the Act on the housing allowance of a pensioner. After all, the legislation on housing allowance was substantially reformed during the last period. The changes came into force from the beginning of last year, 1. 1 January 2015. That reform, as a whole, was certainly successful and necessary but unfortunately also very complex and, on the other hand, quite a large number of people were also essential to their livelihood. In this context, an amendment to the Pensioner's Housing Allowance Act was implemented, and it now appears that it is very unfavourable to some of the people who need it. This change in the pensioner’s housing allowance removed the previously existing right to opt for either the pensioner’s or the general housing allowance’s benefits. In the past, therefore, other than couples have been able to choose either general housing allowance or housing allowance for pensioners. As a result of these changes, it is estimated that some 2500 families with children and a small number of other persons previously covered by the housing allowance of the pensioner were transferred to the general housing allowance. Take the example of a person entitled to housing allowance for a pensioner but in the same household, for example, has a guardian for a child who is not covered by the housing allowance for a pensioner, i.e. does not receive a pension. In this case, the guardian is also not entitled to housing allowance for the pensioner. For example, a single mother who would otherwise be entitled to the housing allowance of a pensioner is not, however, in the same household as a child who does not receive a pension. In the case of families with children, estimates were made that around 35 per cent of the subsidy remained unchanged or decreased. The changes generally amounted to around EUR 50 per month, the size or the size of these changes, which may not be considered to be very significant for the income of the average household, a few dozen euros, but it should be noted that changes in current income are also significant for households with a need for housing allowance. That is why, Mr President-in-Office, I have drawn up this bill to restore the possibility of choice to the law. I am presenting a proposal to amend the legislation on housing allowance for pensioners, and this was a rather complicated exercise in order to restore this freedom of choice to those articles. Quite a number of articles needed this change, and they are, President-in-Office, well put forward in detail in this legislative initiative, and I will not go into it again.
