ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 22 September 2016. The debate will continue at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after rapid intervention, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the agenda from 6 to 24 April. on the subject. The debate will continue. — Minister Mattila, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u2	Mr President! The draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is based on concerns about Finland’s competitiveness and employment and the livelihood of the most vulnerable. It is great that we have a number of measures to remedy the situation and, in particular, to promote competitiveness. The biggest changes in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in euros are the result of a competitiveness pact that brings changes to the social security contributions of employers and harmonises the unemployment insurance contributions of employers and employees. In accordance with the Competitiveness Agreement, the health insurance contribution of all employers will be reduced by 0.94 percentage points in 2017, which will increase the central government contribution by EUR 706 million. The same amount of euro will reduce the health insurance contribution for employees and entrepreneurs and increase the daily allowance fee for employment income insurance. In addition, the unemployment insurance contributions of the employer and employee will be harmonised, resulting in an increase in the income from the unemployment insurance contributions of employees and a decrease in the central government contribution to the basic daily allowance. The financing of the basic part of an employee's adult education allowance will be transferred to be covered by the earnings of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. In addition, the maximum duration of adult education will be reduced to 15 months and the basic part will be reduced by 15 per cent. The state continues to finance the adult education of the entrepreneur. The effects of increases in the contribution to the Competitiveness Pact will be compensated for by low-income wage earners. To this end, EUR 30 million has been earmarked for the State’s contribution to the expenditure resulting from the Health Insurance Act and this compensation model will be prepared for the supplementary budget proposal. The average earnings-related pension contribution for employees will be increased and the average employer's earnings-related pension contribution reduced. In 2020 the total reduction will therefore be 1.2 percentage points. Mr President! The budget must also provide a solution and widely supported changes in employment. The one-off pension allowance for older people, targeted at the long-term unemployed over 60 years of age, Lex Lindström, shows that people in a difficult situation on the eve of retirement age have been consulted and found an alternative. The second change is the reform of unemployment security in a more active and employment-friendly direction by changing the funding of pay subsidies and start-up money to finance them in part from unemployment benefit appropriations. This is a two-year experiment whereby the contribution corresponding to the basic part of the wage subsidy and start-up grant is transferred from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In the context of the experiment, the reimbursement of expenses for self-students with unemployment benefit will be abolished, which will save approximately EUR 29 million of central government expenditure. At the same time, the cost of the work trial will be paid to young people without vocational training, which will increase the cost of the state by EUR 7 million. Savings from changes will increase the number of beneficiaries of pay subsidies. In addition, travel allowance and compensation for removal costs will be combined as a mobility grant. With its key projects, the Government is conducting groundbreaking experiments, including, in particular, a basic income experiment. A very important package is also the road to work for people with disabilities, which aims to continue working for people who are able to work for part-time or to find employment in the open labour market. Mr President! This government has also wrapped up sleeves for dismantling incentive traps. The rehabilitation allowance for young people and the rehabilitation allowance for vocational rehabilitation for young people will be increased to the level of the guarantee pension. The costs of parenting a female worker’s family leave are offset by a lump sum of EUR 2500 paid to the employer. The grant would be paid to all employers who, on the basis of an employment contract or contract of employment or a contract of employment, pay wages for at least one month during the maternity allowance period. The purpose of the lump sum is not only to offset the costs of parenting a female worker to the employer, but also to contribute to Finland’s competitiveness by promoting the employment and growth of female-dominated enterprises. In times of difficulty, you have to make difficult decisions. In line with the budgetary plan, EUR 134 million will be saved on pharmaceutical reimbursements from the beginning of 2017, with a central government contribution of EUR 60 million. Measures can increase price competition for medicines, reduce drug losses and promote rational medical treatment. Income limits and reimbursement rates for sickness and rehabilitation funds reduced in the upper income limits. No index adjustments are made for benefits linked to the national pension index and the consumer index. In addition, the national pension index score will be reduced in 2017. This is how it will be implemented
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u5	It is now possible to ask for the V-button to speak. We have time to hold this debate now at 2.30 p.m. and then, after the big committee meeting, we will resume at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u6	Mr President! Here in Parliament we have discussed a serious issue, the increase in inequality and the increase in our society. The Prime Minister has not yet given us an answer as to how the government is now going to tackle this really burning social issue. I hope that the new Minister for Social Affairs and Health, Mr Mattila, will now give us the answer and the light that this development of inequality can be broken and broken down. This budget, Minister, cuts the most vulnerable people — those with high suffering, pensioners, students and the unemployed — while at the same time giving tax relief to those with high incomes. Can you accept this? I would ask you, Minister, to reply: how do you think this development should be stopped, and how can we really help those people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u7	Mr President! Success for Minister Mattila: There are a lot of interesting things going on in your portfolio next year's budget, and to the least it is not the basic income experiment that can be considered historic and also very interesting internationally. I am delighted that this has been achieved quickly. Hopefully one day it will expand into a wider experiment, and if the results prove to be good, then we can still have an in-depth debate on the basis of the whole Finnish social security system. It is also a good thing to even out the situation of women in working life. But, Minister, I would like to make sure that you went over the fact that national pension indices are now subject to savings. It makes life difficult for people who live on basic security, one way or another. Then there will be a compensation of 30 million for those with low incomes, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u8	Mr President! There has already been extensive consultation of experts in the committee with regard to the State budget proposal, including with regard to the STM. Perhaps I could describe my own feelings in this Chamber with the word'stress' when I listen to these experts in committee. Perhaps, Minister, the most unfair cutting point is the cuts in the reimbursement of medicines. These cuts are also incompatible with the objectives of reducing health inequalities. In this context, you will transfer some of the medicines for diabetes from a 100 % substitution category to a 65 % substitution category. Minister, will diabetics continue to treat themselves with the medicines that are best suited to them or with the medicines they can afford?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u9	Mr President! The Government's line of work, the fact that we are doing everything we can to ensure that there is more work to be done in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u12	Mr President! I would like to thank the government and also the Minister for the progress of the basic income test, but this amount of around EUR 20 million is sufficient for the basic income of around 2,000 unemployed people. This assessment now leaves changes in tax revenues unknown, and it is not known how it affects different people across Finland. Minister Vehviläinen already flashed the basic income experiment number two in 2018 and from then on. How much more money has been set aside for this now, and is the government moving towards a genuine basic income in order to obtain sufficient research on what this basic income would mean for all people in all different income categories in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u18	Mr President! First of all, good luck to the new minister. It must be quite difficult to carry out a task in which you have to differ in such a way that you have to cut from the poor, you have to cut from families with children, you have to cut from pensioners. I hope that you will have the resources to counter these issues in this situation. I would also like to highlight in particular the fact that this diabetes is going into the purse and remind the Minister that diabetes is today Finland's largest and fastest growing folklore. Diabetes is said to be worse than cancer: cancer can be cured in quite many places, but diabetes is a lifelong partner. It is extremely regrettable that this group is being operated on, and if it still happens to the same people who are going to have unemployment benefit cuts, there will be child allowance cuts,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u19	Mr President! There are many different forms of support in Finland. Some of them are very necessary, while others also lead to incentive traps. Selective housing support is essential if low incomes too are to have a roof over their heads. The cost of general housing allowance has continued to increase steadily since 2008. The growth rate has been 56% in five years, and last year nearly 670 million were paid. As unemployment increases and rents rise above other prices, many people’s incomes fall and they are given the right to housing allowance. The government's proposal to increase the lower limit on real estate tax strikes a gap in the daily lives of many people on low incomes. The housing market must defend the weaker. Question: Are the government's actions in line with the slogan 'Who listens to the poor' of Mr Turuse?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u22	Mr President! The Minister has already presented the impact of the Competitiveness Pact. I would just like to remind you that it is a truly historic agreement that has been agreed under Finnish conditions in such a way that employees will also secure the competitiveness of their own employer and, consequently, their own employment. It has also been said here that experiments are now under way, a basic income experiment and then this experiment to activate unemployment benefit. It is a very good thing that the experiment seeks the model that could work in practice. Otherwise, we don't know how it works. That it's good to test it in advance. But it is true that we have had to make bad decisions during this parliamentary term, and then it is pointless to seek guilty parties in this Chamber, because everyone has been responsible in turn and has not succeeded. Fortunately, there is now a green light coming from the industry, the economy is on the increase, and it gives us the chance that these issues can still be dealt with for the better in the final term. I would like to ask the Minister whether there are any plans to carry out studies on these effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u23	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: was the government aware of the impact on purchasing power of these important decisions on benefits? You only started as Minister, but this information certainly had to be at the government's disposal, and in that respect it is a pity if we consciously want 5000 more people to fall completely outside the poverty line. It is a rather cold policy and it tells us that if this was really a political objective, then what Sipilä said to the people in which he appealed in his TV speech to people and to us having to make a series of painful decisions to put our society's funding on a sustainable footing. He therefore hoped that all responsible Finns would stop living as a debt. It has already become clear that, during this reign, several people will lose up to 6% of their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u24	Mr President! It is positive that the veterans will receive more rehabilitation money and we will be able to take better care of them. This year, Finland’s peace-keeping is 60 years old. The first men were sent to Suez in 1956, and since then 45,000 women and men have served in over 40 peacekeeping and crisis management operations. You are from STM to deliver veteran cards to crisis veterans this year, but there is a small amount missing from the budget book that will also bring these women and men's rehabilitation to the level it deserves. There are women and men who suffer physical injury but also mental injury, and I would like to see this money found in the supplementary budget at the Ministry of Finance for you. I know that you as Minister have also been active in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u25	Mr President! I'd like to ask you a question about the funding of the Mother and Child Homes and Shelter, which has talked a lot about. In the past, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has proposed additional funding of around 5 million to safeguard the immediate functioning of primary and sheltered homes in Finland, and yet now the Government's budget proposal talks about less additional funding. Overall, from the budgetary point of view, the sums involved are extremely small, but those people who are the target of acute violence or the threat of violence need immediate help from society. Finland has also signed the International Istanbul Convention on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, and I would like to ask Minister Mattila: can you continue those discussions in the government so that you can find some way to find a solution to the financing of primary and shelters, even at a level that is decent?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u26	Honorable Speaker! In fact, this section of the STM is almost the only section of the LVM where there are significant increases in relation to the previous budget. However, 1465 million will be added to this section. In fact, I would raise two factors which increase the size of the section: this issue of housing allowance, which was well raised by Mr Östman, and this section will indeed add EUR 226 million to it and then add EUR 500 million to the income support. But I would like to ask: when almost all other sections have been able to reduce administrative costs, but there is a small increase, an increase of 2.3 million, how is this social reform reflected in this increase in administrative costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u27	Mr President! Minister Mattila, do you genuinely believe that you are implementing a fair policy and making fair decisions for Finnish citizens? Last year you made a decision to reduce social security for the most low-income people, their services, to cut off medicines, to increase housing costs. This same line of inequality will continue on your roads this year. Now different estimates have shown that when you cut off the most low income people, their purchasing power will be reduced by 6% during your reign. What is your justification for cutting off the most low-income people and applying tax relief to high-income people? Do you think this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u28	Mr President! Last night, when I was watching or waiting for television news, I noticed an advertisement inviting citizens to look at the budget on the research budget.fi website, and that is a great thing that people are given this kind of access to these budget criteria. However, I personally think that this budget should also be a little more informative for us as Members of Parliament, particularly with regard to these impact assessments, and it would certainly be very important, as has been raised here in various speeches, both from representatives of the government parties and from the opposition, for the government to carry out in-depth impact assessments, such as the impact assessment of children, which this budget affects for children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u29	Mr President! It is good that various experiments are being carried through and gained experience of how improvements can be made on the social security side, for example. The basic income experiment is one of these experiments. A lot has now been said and has finally reached the experimental stage. I thought I would ask the Minister when, after all, this basic income is intended to combine the various forms of support, so that it is consistent and clear how to deal with this situation, since it is quite often the case of unemployed people who have completely lost their job income. After all, municipalities are increasingly responsible for managing the affairs of the unemployed and paying for the cost of their lives, paying labour market support and its share of the municipality for it. Has there been a debate on the issue of these many types of aid, whether a package could be drawn up — even now the pay subsidy is coming — which would enable people to be employed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u30	Finally, Mr Lindtman and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u31	Mr President! Minister Mattila, when you became Minister, you said that you represent what the Nordic welfare model at its best produces and that it is also reflected in what is worth defending: equality, education, child benefits and others. I thought that was a great thing to say. But when the Prime Minister did not agree with us to assess the impact of this budget on inequality between people, the opposition has had to order these calculations and go through the fact that this budget, not only on the tax side, is increasing inequality now, but also in your sector, increasing poverty rates, child poverty, poverty and inequality among the elderly, which is actually the opposite of the idea of a Nordic welfare state. Minister, when the Prime Minister refuses,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u32	Minister Mattila, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u33	Mr President! There were a lot of questions here about inequality. The chairman of the committee, Mr Hatainen, started this debate, at least involving representatives of Anttila, Mr Kiuru, Mr Kiljunen, Mr Räsänen, including Mr Lindtman, and Mr Lindtman, that is exactly what it is. You and I, surely both of us, represent what the Nordic welfare model has produced. In time, comprehensive school, the health centre has created social equality and regional equality, equality between people. Despite the fact that I have to bring up these adjustment measures in this budget, I also believe that we will have a very large number of elements to live on, to be strongly represented by the Nordic welfare model. Comprehensive school, health centre will remain and also the safety nets of society. But in this debate I would also like to assure you that we need to assess the impact of the laws. In my opinion, every drafting of the law, every enactment of the law includes an impact assessment. The lowest income is cut — yes, it is true that index checks have now been carried out. But let's also look at what's left. The index checks on income support will remain unchanged, and then, if now these indicators are moving forward, for example, the index check will affect the cap on the medicine so that it falls. But, Representative Aalto, the basic income experiment: We certainly can't argue about it. That's all right. Of course, the model can now and has been discussed. But I'd like to make sure that the bet that we're putting on right now... This is an experiment. There are additional resources available to us, and I would hope that this will not be an experiment but will ultimately lead to a genuine basic income model that has also been very much interested in the rest of the world. And Mr Hoskonen, when you raised the question of how this will affect — that is, assessing this employment, income support, social networks — I hope that we will also get answers to it through the basic income experiment. Congressman Parviainen, you raised this matter of the Federation of Mother and Child Homes and Shelter Homes. Yes, we are bound by the Istanbul agreement. It's true. But these will be there on Minister Rehula's property. I support the Competitiveness Pact and the related measures that have been taken. I want this government to carry out experiments to promote employment. And once you have asked the Prime Minister certain questions, it is terribly difficult for me to be fully involved in the debate when the Prime Minister is not here. But it would be really good to see that overall discussion. Congressman Sarkomaa, you were hoping for a prompt correction to the social security system for entrepreneurs. It is quite certain that, in any group, there will certainly be an improvement in social security, but I do not dare to say that what is the quickest thing that can be done and what steps are being taken here. Then, Congressman Turunen: Who listens to the poor? Yes, a good opposition is blackmailing a good government, that is what it is right now, if we raise that concern in this debate. And even more: there is a poverty group in Parliament. We need that political debate. I believe, for example, that Lex Lindström has risen from just the things that have been in preparation but which have not just been brought here on the board table, and if any of these poverty groups, the poverty issue, the poverty debate is being brought forward, then very good. Well, then, to veteran rehabilitation — if I continue with this speech, Mr President, which I have not finished: it is proposed that a good EUR 200 million should be spent on Veteran rehabilitation, and some of these should therefore be paid for military injury compensation, the cost of using the war-qualified institutions, breast dishes, the rehabilitation of front veterans. This is a very fine thing that, now that independent Finland is 100 years old, such an appropriation has been made. I hope, then, that there will also be a real constructive debate with the veteran organisations, that their needs will then be heard as well as possible and that rehabilitation will then be comprehensive in all respects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u34	This matter will be suspended in the light of the meeting of the large committee. The plenary session will resume at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u35	The discussion on the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health continues. I would now ask those representatives who wish to participate in the previous debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u36	Mr President! At that interrupted session we talked about the savings on reimbursement of medicines, and it is very important that this whole package in Parliament is carefully looked at, but I also hope that the government will see how the various reforms can be made so that they do not hit the patients. One is appropriate medical treatment. I do not know whether the Minister has been familiar with this trial of the right treatment through an overall evaluation, which really looked closely at the treatment of the elderly in home care over three months, and in three months saved EUR 51 per person to Kela and EUR 76 for the customer, when it was discovered that the elderly had too many medicines. At the same time, the care of the elderly improved, the use of health care decreased. This whole thing is really something we should look at. Kuopio has introduced a service voucher so that, regardless of the thickness of the bag, the elderly receive an overall assessment of this medicine treatment. Could this be one way in which we could save costs and yet every elderly person and person would get their medicines on an equal footing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u37	Mr President! I will come back to this theme of inequality and the reasons behind it, which are increasing this gap in inequality. Even in the previous budget, indices were frozen, and now these national pension index-linked benefits are reduced by cutting this index by this 0.85. In practice, therefore, this primary social security system is deteriorating, and as a result, a large number of people are now falling to the level of income support. I would now like to ask the Minister: have you now gone through these issues, for example, with the Ministry of Labour and with the Minister for Labour? The right goal for the government is to encourage work, find jobs, but on the other hand, this change in social security and cuts create new incentives traps, because when income support falls, it is even more difficult for people to find employment. We know that
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u38	Mr President! Good things are the rise in guaranteed pension and Lex Lindström, who helps retire people who are already entitled to it. I think it is very good to start and set up a cancer center. It is extremely important that we share information, and Finland if anyone is extremely progressive in research. I'd like to ask you about two things that affect people. One is a patient safety theme and the other is hospice. There is a lot of patient damage, and I know that there is a patient safety strategy in the Ministry, which, unfortunately, was not done during the last period because of the delay in social security. What about hospice? It is a pleasure to note that there is a record in the Government Programme that hospice care is being developed. Minister, what's going on in that area?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u39	Mr President! There has been good feedback here in public and in any case that students’ housing allowance is transferred to the general housing allowance. That in itself is probably a positive thing, but it has now become clear that this whole, which is linked to it, should be carried out in a cost-neutral manner. In practice, it will mean that some of the people and families in our current housing allowance will obviously be reduced. In this context, I would like the Minister to tell me in actual fact: what is happening here, how is this transfer to this general housing allowance going to happen, who will be affected by the cuts, and what is the amount of money, after all, how much money will have to be spent on this transfer? What's the operation from there?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u40	Mr President! I am very concerned that basic security will be cut this period and these indices will be frozen. So the situation is, to put it in Finnish, that the income level of people who depend on basic security is no longer sufficient for such a minimum income. People get in line for bread, and I have received such messages that in bread lines food runs out and people are starving in some places. The situation in Finland is becoming very serious for the poorest people. I would have asked the Minister: when these decisions are taken in the Ministry, could you help to assess the impact of these decisions before these decisions are passed on to Parliament, whether it is the law or the budget? I find this situation in which we are faced with opposition very worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u41	Mr President! Low incomes often have to compromise on medicines and treatments. Many people, especially the elderly, even have to wonder whether to buy drugs or food. Many of us have had to hear these stories about real life. Socio-economic differences are already large, but the government's decisions are now in danger of increasing. One of the causes of inequality is the budget proposal's savings target of more than EUR 130 million for reimbursement of medicines. The savings are a continuation of the savings on medicines made at the beginning of this year, which introduced, among other things, that sore initial own-account of EUR 50 for the low-income. The most severe increases in payments have struck and will hit those with low incomes and a lot of health problems. Next year's surgery is going to be paid in particular by diabetics. These cuts jeopardise access to appropriate care and the development of public health. According to the OECD, only a few countries have a higher share of health care expenditure in household expenditure than in Finland. Why do you continue to grow them and increase inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u42	Mr Sarkomaa and then the Minister have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u43	Mr President! Much has been said about impact assessments, but I would like to say here that during this government the impact assessment has not been weakened, but, on the contrary, this government has actively put this on the agenda. It was during Question Time that the Minister for Finance said that he has taken this up. Of course, reports have been made during the previous parliamentary term, but nothing concrete has come up. Each government has assessed the impact of a single bill, as the Minister has said here. But now what I am saying to the Minister: we are calling for perhaps in the future the budget here in the general justifications to have, or perhaps an annex to, an estimate to take into account key tax changes, customer fees and benefits cuts and their impact on certain groups. It's never been like this before. I say here that this government is also taking steps forward, and I hope that the Minister will say that this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u44	And Mr Kiuru, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u45	Mr President! I do find this a little awkward, but I have to say: So, of course, the great thing is that the government is presenting the budget in electronic form, it was found out yesterday, and today the state funds were already going through it. But what we really need is for us to be better able to learn about these effects, that what affects what. What is also strange is that, for example, we do not have any information on the Gini coefficient — not on taxation but also on these benefits — and I do not think that this is a sustainable policy. A great deal of work was done last season to be able to tell us how income and wealth differences are developing in the context of the presentation of the budget. Now we already know that we are at a disadvantage, i.e. the income and wealth differences are getting bigger and bigger, but it would be fair to recognise that there is probably no such assessment of the impact at all. Or we must admit that the government has deliberately wanted to make purchasing power worse by 6% in relation to the people of these benefit groups during this term of government. Political decision
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u46	Minister, three minutes, anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u47	Mr President! Yes, in addition to the Gini coefficient, it is important to listen to the citizens and to the fact that representatives and ministers go to the turbulent and squares there. But the impact assessment was raised here, and what is left under the line is what we want to know. I'm sure we'll all agree on that now. Index adjustments for income support are made. And if it is now — and I will repeat it again — as it appears that the index check will also lead to a reduction in the annual liability for medicines, then it will also be part of this pharmaceutical treatment package. And then, Mr Sarkomaa, you raised this question of medical treatment. We have rational medical treatment and its development in the government program. I'm sure this is one part of going through. They have to be visited there at the customer, at the patient who is taking those medicines, and I am, of course, prepared to promote and promote this. It's a government program. It's not two words. In other words, yes, Mr Haatainen, there will be amendments to the indices. And has the government gone through this among the various ministers? Yes, the government works as a whole, of course. We're going to make a budget run together. But in that previous debate I also said that there must be an impact assessment. Yes, it is done and, as I said, it must be part of every legislative process. Now we are discussing budget laws, but we also need to go through other laws. And Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, this theme of inequality was already being discussed in the previous debate. It is good that we have a parliamentary information service that can be used. It is good that we have now opened up this budget service for citizens. And I am still prepared to continue the debate that has to do with what has been said here about who listens to the poor — what is Finnish poverty. And yet I also believe that we must defend the existing safety nets that we have. And in my opinion, despite the fact that, as part of the budgetary adjustment programme, I am bringing these savings laws and these laws into the framework of the kiky agreement — which I believe both have a very good intention of serving the country — we should continue to discuss how these laws will then affect: is it really the case that someone is trapped in a poverty trap, are they incentive traps? And Mr. Kiljunen, housing allowance and its harmonisation. The students have come to be commended, as has been the case with this debate. Unfortunately, I do not have those sums now, but this debate can then be continued in private. And, Mr Juvonen, it is good that we have registered hospice care as part of a good care programme, and we both know from a nurse's background what elements that means. This work must continue. And it is good that the patient accident reporting system remains unchanged, that we know about the patient damage. They are not meant to be changed in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u48	If anyone has anything more to say, I'll ask you to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u49	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I really want to bring to this now the message of students and graduates of genomics, local nurses and socionomies. Thank you to the government for bringing in a proposal this season to create a register of social workers in Valvira. There is a lot of registration now, and I am now an officially legalized genomician. Thank you, of course, to Minister Risiko for that too, because he has been working very hard on these issues during the previous period. But now I've been contacted about this payment. So the registration fee is the 100 euros. Of course, every 100 euros will pay, because that way we will also get it legalised. But what about now? How will this payment be viewed in the future? Is there a possibility that it will change? But thank you very much. This register is necessary and improves the very theme we talked about, patient safety when the employer can check the employee's background.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u50	Mr President! It is true that there is nothing nice about this austerity policy, but it is only necessary to make it possible for the Finnish economy to be able to take better care of those who are directly dependent on the state economy in the future. Among other things, we are now actually making these savings on reimbursement of medicines, and my wish is that, during this parliamentary term, we should be able to explain how these various measures on basic income and guaranteed pensions have affected people there, so that they can be corrected during this parliamentary term, because if measures have been taken that need to be corrected, then it is wise to correct them by this government. This is my hope that, now that these have to be taken forward, we will then be able to find out exactly how the various measures there at human level will affect. I know that, for example, the EUR 50 pharmaceutical allowance that has to be paid from the beginning of the year is a tough one for many guaranteed pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u51	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: have you had a discussion with Minister Lindström about the decisions that are currently being prepared at TEM, including the fact that half of the current wage subsidies have been allocated to associations and foundations in the budget? In addition, the situation of municipal workshops will become more difficult due to the legislation of the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs, which means that several municipal workshops will have to lay off the paid workers. The pay subsidy period is also halved to 12 months. The combined effect of all of this is that these people will move either into labour market support or income support, housing support will increase, and different social protection will increase as a result of these decisions, and of course the most inhumane thing is that these people will drift and be excluded from society as a whole. Have you had a conversation about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u52	Mr President! I am so much a friend of strict economic discipline that I rarely praise the actual increase in appropriations, but this time the government and the Minister deserve to be commended for the fact that next year, when it is the centenary of independence, this has also been taken into account as a value choice that, while there is still room for it, the services of our veterans will be subject to certain increases. The disadvantage rate for the war-qualified will be reduced from 15 to 10 per cent from the beginning of next year. All in all, EUR 40 million will be added to open services using the EUR 20 million next year, EUR 15 million 2018 and EUR 5 million 2019. As long as we still have the opportunity to pay our dues, that is what we should do. Thank you to the Minister and to the entire government for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u53	Mr President! I regret that the Minister did not answer the question that Mr Haatainen has just asked about the rationality of the government cutting basic security, which should be such a primary form of livelihood for the most low incomes, and by this cause these people move to that side of income support. You can say that it is all very well that the government does not allocate indexation to income support, but the problem is that people should get along with that basic security and not that they are pushed into it. After all, income support is intended to help the citizen for a short time, but you do it because when you reduce basic security, you push people permanently into that side of income support, and that is a problem, for example, in terms of this objective of employment, because income support does not have the same protection rates as, for example, unemployment benefit or housing support. So income support is therefore such a very poverty and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u54	Now, Mr. Alanko-Kahiluoto, you've gone quite well over time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u55	Mr President! Indeed, I would like an answer as to whether there is now an estimate and how much expenditure has then been estimated in the budget to be the need for additional resources for income support when these priority benefits are cut through the National Pensions Index. So now that primary income security is reduced and people fall from it to income support. This relates, among other things, to the freezing of the maximum housing expenditure for general housing allowance. This is what's gonna happen there. Has there been an estimate and what is the Minister’s assessment of how much additional costs this will entail on the side of income support expenditure? Then the question is: how do you see the development of social security in the future? Is this our way that soon everyone will begin to rely on income support when primary social security has been,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u56	Mr Sarkomaa again, and then the Minister commented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u57	Mr President! The goal is not and cannot be and we do not see Finland's future in such a way that everyone depends on income support. We want to have a last resort income security, but the level of basic income, the level of basic security, must be sufficient, and we see this challenge here in the assessment of certain legislative proposals that they increase the need for income support. This is an important point to look at when this whole is assessed, and this is certainly where the message goes to the Minister. But the objective of these difficult measures, such as housing allowance, is certainly also that it affects housing policy as a whole and that we have cheaper housing. It's a long road. These are not easy, and for a moment we are in a very painful situation, but we are doing so because the future is better and that in the future the Finnish welfare society will bear. Thank you to the government for developing equality in health during difficult times. There'll be money for the vaccines. Chickenpox vaccine, that's great. The cost of parenting will be balanced. That has long been spoken of by the left and the Greens, and now this Sipilä government is doing. In other words, there is a strong desire to develop the Finnish welfare society, and even in difficult times it is being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u58	Now for the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u59	Mr President! Of course, when it comes to income, income security, the primary security of income is work — that is, that we have jobs, that we have occupational pensions and that is the tax base of municipalities and that is how municipal services are financed. I believe we have a goal for the government to improve public finances, we have a purpose through the kiky agreement to look for jobs, work for Finns. Like this. The index checks will be made, it is true, why not go around? That is how this proposal has been brought here. But the income support will not be cut, it will be indexed. Nevertheless, I would like to believe that the objective of this government is certainly not that people are being pushed, especially that we have an even greater number of income support, but that we have an ever greater number of people working. This was certainly accompanied by Mr Anttila's speech that, now that index checks are being carried out, now that we are moving into a period of tight economic conditions, we have been in a recession since 2008. It is not the fault of this government, it is not really the fault of any government in particular. It's not by accusing me of getting ahead, it's by working. But in those meagre times when adjustment measures have been taken, I do support the overall assessment, of course. Let's go to the citizens and see how they're doing today. Congressman Juvonen, the Favorite and Terhikki registers are probably what we're talking about. I have already had this debate, and I am familiar with it, and we must continue to do so. I'm on Terhikki's register, too. It is good that we have the registers and that the nurses must be found there, and it is important to develop the work of the elderly. Thank you, Mr Rydman. Above all, however, thanks to the veterans, the honourable citizens who still exist among us. They deserve the rehabilitation and support that can now be given. Many have given even more for the country, and we can no longer repay them. Was there another question I didn't answer? We can go on with the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u60	I will give you a few more answers. Less than half an hour of discussion took place during the sitting which began at 1 p.m., and now less than half an hour has also been held. Let's keep this up for a while. Usually, a sectional debut has lasted about an hour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u61	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I would like to make it clear that, now that wage subsidies have been added to, for example, start-up money and are targeted at companies, in practice, there is a great risk that the cuts that are being made to pay subsidies will now be made to the most vulnerable people. That is precisely the people in the workshops, the people in our organisations, the foundations in which, in practice, these are the people that companies do not currently employ with pay subsidies. These people are those who need training, different support, analysis of their own lives, and in practice now this wage subsidy cut is targeted here. That is why I see that this relates to Minister Mattila's business and ministry, because now, if these people fall out of it, they are practically on income support or labour market support, housing aid, and the risk is that these people will be excluded because there are no people to look after them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u62	Mr President! I would like to say once again that the problem with these cuts, which affect the smallest benefits, is that they do not achieve savings at the level of the national economy as a whole because, when they are cut out, people are pushed there into dependency on income support, and when income support is per household, it is not personal and does not have protective parts, it prevents these people from helping themselves, pulling themselves out of that poverty-stricken state. This is the problem. That is why it makes no sense for the government to cut those basic benefits. It is an absurd policy from the point of view of employment and the national economy. You shouldn't do that. My question is: do you not judge when you make these decisions, how much is increasing the number of these dependants who depend on income support?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u63	Mr President! I, too, am somewhat heartburned by the fact that few governments have had the objective of reducing poverty and reducing inequalities, and already in the government programme itself, it is difficult to find such records of poverty reduction. But knowingly making a policy that leads to a higher level of poverty, child poverty, pensioner poverty, a significant increase in income and wealth in general seems to be a rather strange policy objective. And I also find it disturbing in this debate that why is it being repeated here that 'this must only be done'? So it has been clear once and for all this week that this draft government budget contains the fact that, in reality, the overall tax rate does not stand still, as the government has intended, but in fact the overall tax rate will fall by 1%, i.e. by EUR 2 billion. And now you don't have to go to Minister Mattilanka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u64	Mr Vartia would like to speak next. — I am sorry to interrupt, but there are rules of the game, that there are one-minute responses. There are two ways: either I knock, or, if it does not work, I am forced to come in with my vote and interrupt it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u65	Mr President! The government is at a difficult place when the economy is in a difficult state and savings need to be found. One big possibility is that the pharmacy industry would be opened up to competition. There has been talk of saving 100 million by the Finnish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency. Scientists at THL have said that savings are available. Among other things, the current CEO of Kela, former Minister of Social Affairs and Health, has said that competition between pharmacies should be opened up and savings made available there. Now that the traffic arch has gone through, there is only one area left where the authority decides how many operators are needed, where they operate and who they are, and that is pharmacies. Has the government thought that this too could be dismantled? It does not in any way compromise the safety of medication, as the criteria for setting up a pharmacy remain exactly the same as they are today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u66	And Mr Sarkomaa, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u67	Mr President! Yes, Mr Kiuru should be told that it should be perfectly clear that the aim of the current government is not to increase poverty. Your speech was most amazing. The central goal of this government is to save the Finnish welfare society, and it is only saved by having more work in Finland. Unfortunately, in addition to the line of work, we also have to make painful cuts. No surgery is without effect, and our objective is to make it as fair as possible. It is challenging and difficult, and that is certainly what the Minister is aiming for. As far as pharmacies are concerned, the good thing is that this pharmaceutical savings package is already increasing competition for pharmaceutical companies and, in other words, it is already becoming more savings. We must look at the pharmacy as a whole, it is an important part of health care, but we certainly do not want to go into that kind of competition in this government, that pharmacies compete at prices and that the sick should run between drug savings, drug discounts, but also that system must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u68	Mr President! Thank you again for the opportunity to respond to this attack. In my opinion, it is quite incomprehensible that the same people who want to create competitiveness do not take into account how competitiveness is created. The OECD has accurately assessed that growth in income and wealth disparities will not lead to increased competitiveness, on the contrary. That is why I think it is quite important, in the context of such a central section, to highlight whether or not this reduction in competitiveness is being done, i.e. to increase income and wealth disparities and to increase poverty on purpose. Now that it seems that it has been done deliberately, I tried to suggest that it has also been done deliberately not to insist that the overall tax rate remains in place, but that it is decided, however, to reduce the overall tax rate by 1 percentage point in this proposal. When this has been a political objective, it is a question of whether you would have liked to spend these 2 billion saved on these benefits,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u69	Two more minutes for the minister, and then this part of the debate ends.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u70	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Screaminen, for the clarification that you are defending the very third sector that you know. I know that you are well aware of this and that these ideas will be taken up, and I will, of course, have a discussion with Minister Lindström. But, of course, it must also be said that, when companies are now supported and encouraged to hire, they also employ and thus become more well-being through increased work. But then, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, did I correctly write that, for the whole economy, these cuts will not achieve savings? Surely this budget of the STM is not about to turn the entire national economy on its feet. This is part of it, which means that we certainly have other sectors of government which are then increasing prosperity, for example through employment. But it seems to me that there has been a broad understanding in this Chamber today, an idea from the opposition and the government parties to make the overall assessment, and believe me, surely the government has made these assessments, and I am sure that those calculations will come to me in due course, that is, personally on the minister's table, and they will have to be looked at. This is how it goes. Then, Mr Vartia, I do not think that, at the moment, and on this basis and now on the basis of this debate, I can yet agree with the idea of saving what could possibly be achieved by this liberalisation. In practice, however, I do not believe that medicines can be sold very freely, because there must be advice if you have the right to sell, and it must be arranged in such a way that it is fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u71	This debate on the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health ends. Let us move on to the general debate on the budget. It will be followed up as recommended by a five-minute speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u72	Mr President! The budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is large. All in all, it accounts for 26.4% of the total budget, i.e. big things, affecting small people, but are large arcs and patterns that are being done. Rational drug treatment came up here, and that's what they do on the field of treatment. It is done in home care, it is done in institutions in 24-hour care. Nurses are the first to see what pills, what pills are going on with an elderly person. They take the message forward, the doctor is missing, they check the medication lists, and they find out what's going on. In other words, it needs to be checked, and those chemical cocktails have decreased in Finland, and this is a very good thing. This is precisely the case: there is concern about the liberalisation of pharmacies, in the sense that exemptions were made in Sweden, for example, with Panadol, and this resulted in a lot of poisoning. So this advice and guidance must be alongside it. The bread queues were mentioned here, and in Espoo, among other things, Manna-Apu is doing extremely important work in the bread line. At least the food hasn't stopped there since I've been in line to help. On the contrary, praise must be given to all those operators, traders, who give that food in line. There is a wide range of supply, and with the help of voluntary forces, these people help each other. Someone here mentioned that the budget is distressing, and especially this branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. I say this is hopeful. No one here much praises the fact that the guarantee pension is increased, but it is extremely important. This Lex Lindström is an extremely important issue. And since we have spoken on numerous occasions during the negotiations over the last period, who will listen?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u73	Mr President! Indeed, this draft budget is of such a quality that it will increase the development of inequality. These main problems relate to the fact that, although this basic security was raised in the 2010s — the level of housing allowance increased significantly and the level of basic security increased — but it is already low from its starting point. At the same time, when these KEL index-linked benefits are being cut and the rent ceilings for housing subsidies are being revised and left unchecked, i.e. housing allowance is being reduced, we know at the same time that the rents will rise by around 2.7%, i.e. in practice the purchasing power of citizens will be significantly reduced for those living on basic security. It is a 2% reduction in purchasing power, experts say. This allowing the increase in inequality is, in fact, contrary to the records of your government programme, Minister, and I would like to hear: in what way will the government programme be followed? If you write beautiful words about narrowing down the trend of inequality, then with this policy, these measures will increase it. Then there is the fact that, while these primary benefits are the one that people should then be able to do when there is unemployment and disease, to get along without having to rely on the last income support, it is now going to happen that a large number of people will fall into this and it will create the incentive trap to get to work, to seek employment, because the income support always falls from the euro according to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u74	Mr President! I'm glad the minister's still here. I think it is important because we are at the very last minute dealing with the budget, and yes, there are problems in next year's budget that deserve attention. In fact, I think the biggest thing is that, as Mr Sipilä said, during this term of government, there will be a real balance between the state finances in a way that no longer owes money. Now it is amazing that this is not going to happen at all, and I think it is a wonderful thing because, in fact, this government seems to be much better at advertising things — whether they are happening or not, that is another thing. In particular, however, it has to be pointed out that during the last term of government it was possible to almost halve the deficit that was left and recovered from the previous period. After all, in 2019, where the previous government left off will be achieved. In practice, this will be at a rate of 5.5 billion over the next few years, which will mean that the indebtedness trend will not stop, contrary to what has been claimed. So living in debt, which has been a great concern for Sipilä too, does not bother this government, because the development of debt will not be stopped. On the basis of the 2021 figures, government membranes showing the budget that indebtedness would stop, but there are no measures to stop this indebtedness, which in practice will end this term of government with the result that only the correction of the deficit inherited during the previous government term will be achieved. In this regard, it is a great disappointment to me that we are now in a situation where it is said that Finns must save, that basic security needs to be significantly cut and that it is not actually done in order to put an end to the development of indebtedness in Finland. A retired man came to me in Pori and said that we could balance the state budget if we stopped living this debt. But it is not enough to explain this to people when living in debt does not stop. And what is special about this is that when living as a debt does not stop, however, at the same time, money was found somewhere to be EUR 1 billion so that the economy can be fattened with these significant tax reductions. We recognise that the Kiki agreement has agreed that 515 million of these tax reductions will be made, but there will also be a lot of new subsidies and benefits for those who are already doing particularly well. That is why I am concerned, Mr Mattila, about how you will be able to defend these huge cuts in benefits at a time like this, which could have been covered by an assessment also on the revenue side, whether there is room for significant benefits on the expenditure side for those who are already doing well. Yes, I must say that, for example, these examples of the fact that the pharmacist will have significantly more added value in the work of the year than will be left to a person who is on a very low salary or even benefits — when 6% of the purchasing power comes from those who depend on basic security during this regime’s term — is an unscrupulous policy. I have to say it. And how to create incentives for the labour market to really increase people from basic security to the labour market in practice: yes, these incentives, which are now being created as a blockage, are in the direction that is not going well. People will now be forced to pay so much income support, the problem of which is, of course, that many times you have to ask yourself whether you can take a job, and in that respect this is a blow to the government's employment objective. Furthermore, there is the fact that maximum housing payments are being frozen, and I do not think that this is very smart. From the point of view of the capital region — it has been corrected — but also from the perspective of Finland as a whole, from the point of view of other growth centres, it is not a good policy to have taken this path. We are now in a situation where, on this side too, barriers to employment are created which cost us quite a lot elsewhere. Ultimately, all of this could have been avoided if it had been possible to ignore the greed of tailoring a wide range of subsidies to one’s own group,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u75	Mr President! To Mrs Kiuru, I would just like to remind her of what the Prime Minister, in connection with this budgetary debate, reminded her of this development in indebtedness. After all, the objective is to make the number of people employed rise through 110,000 new jobs in a situation where we have economic growth and that in 2021 indebtedness will fall. That is what the Prime Minister taught us here, and this is also on the table here in the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u76	And Mr. Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u77	Mr President! I think it was all right that Mr Anttila drew attention to the fact that this deleveraging is in the government's plans, but I was just trying to analyse the figures of experts who say that debt is not going to work. It does not, but it justifies, for example, these mega-surgeries here in the STM section. And that cannot be justified when, at the same time, EUR 2 billion is going to reduce this overall tax rate, when the government's aim was to keep it in place. I'm sure greed has come to the fore now. And that is why, for example, Minister Mattila here explains that these benefits must be cut. That money seems to be going somewhere, and that is why I think it would be honest to say about living as a debt that you can live on if you get benefits for the most high-income Finns and it is paid by the poorest people in Finland, and that is fine. But it is not worth saying that debt ends now that these benefits are being cut here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u78	Now Mr Kiljunen, and then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u79	First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Anttila that the common aim of all of us is that we should increase employment and the number of people to be employed would increase, but unfortunately, your decisions will make this even more difficult, and in that sense I must say that I am also placing a great deal of hope in Minister Mattila for her to discuss these matters with Mr Lindström, which I mentioned in my previous speeches. But then another thing, although unfortunately Mr Juvonen left: Many times we have been talking here about how great it is that our unemployed are interviewed every three months. It is also a good thing that unemployed people get to the employment office and bring their own views and things and they have customer plans. But it's not enough. Those plans will not be enough if they do not result in real measures. But then the other half of this story is that now we have learned that if such an unemployed person has not shown himself to be working for a few days or have shown himself to be active, then he will get a temper here, and as a result he will lose his unemployment allowance for one day. So it cannot be that the aim of this three-month interview is, in a way, to punish people for not working or showing that they are active. This is not what the Social Democrats think, but we support people in employment offices being interviewed, supported, encouraged, sought employment opportunities and thereby strengthened their employment. This is our common aim, but not this punishment, which has now been mentioned in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u80	Mr Kiuru seems to have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u81	President! However, I also think it is important to give some light to the future for Minister Mattila, who has now begun and left these representatives behind. I hope that you will indeed catch up with Mr Lindström on the possibility of negotiating these incentive traps, which will also come up on this side. We are working enormously here in the opposition not to increase these child care fees. And here it has to be acknowledged that I too had the same work to do during the last term of the government, but I did not go ahead with a reform that would have led to more incentive traps, and that is why during the last term of the government there was no increase in the fees for day care. Now this Ministry of Finance’s dream was finally rejected because it was discovered that it was accompanied by incentive traps. In this regard, being left to income support is one big incentive trap from the point of view of employment and from the point of view of this increase in employment rates, which is our common objective, so I think we should look at these incentive traps, which is all there is on this side. And I am afraid that freezing the maximum level of expenditure on housing allowance is one of the questions of whether you can work in these large urban centres in the same way. That this whole palette has these incentive violations. I would therefore urge Mr Mattila to take a stand on these issues in the future, so that we can have a whole package that would not, at least, defeat that big employment objective, because that is what we are all in favour of in this Chamber. And I would also like you, now that you are known as such a staunch woman, to take this youth guarantee a pretty tight, sympathetic grip, because the big question is also on your property, that more than 20 per cent of young men between 20 and 24 years of age are not in education or work,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u82	One last speech to Mr Anttila, and then I hope that we will allow the Minister to speak and make room for him to then go home after a long, long journey.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u83	Mr President! In response to Mr Kiuru's speech, a small correction. If I heard correctly, you were talking about tax cuts of EUR 2 billion. My mathematics, at least in relation to these budget data, assumes that, in view of what has been done earlier, it is around one billion and is mainly directed and directed to people with low and medium incomes, thereby increasing purchasing power, i.e. the Finnish economy. You don't want to paint so dark when you don't have the facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u84	And Mr. Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u85	Mr President! It was a good thing that this came up, because this is all this week's information. That's what we thought before. But now that this budget proposal has been further refined, it has indeed become clear that Minister Orpo and Secretary-General Hetemäki have confirmed that the overall tax rate, i.e. the overall tax rate, will fall by 1%, and this will amount to EUR 2 billion. I went to Hetemäki myself to make sure it was EUR 2 billion. By the way, I got the calculations. That I could deliver them to Congressman Anttila's e-mail. But this is the case with EUR 2 billion, and two thirds of these highly maligned cuts in education could have been avoided or, alternatively, all these cuts in benefits could have been omitted. That's right. To us, who we asked for, Hetemäki really provided more information on the fact that this would result in the retention of the overall tax rate and its conscious 1% reduction. And it cannot explain the fact and the fact that the purchasing power of the people who depend on these benefits during this reign will be reduced by 6% according to these independent studies. Then, if we thought that this should have been taken into account, then, of course, a different tax lever would have been chosen. After all, the starting point of this tax lever, which was introduced, is that when everyone is allocated in the same way as a percentage, the highest-income ones benefit from it by several hundred or thousands of euros a year, when the lowest-income people, including those in paid employment, earn a lot, much less, in other words, in support of purchasing power, which is unfortunately not the case. It was a great disappointment to me because it could have been controlled by taxation, but it now decided to save the most high incomes in Finland, because they have the hardest time at a time like this. — And this, of course, was, as you know,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u86	And one last speech to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-23-ps-89.u87	Mr President! Thank you for your concern about the journey home. First of all, the points raised by Mrs Kiljunen about these interviews with the unemployed. They may now be more on the Lindström site, but, as has been said, there are similarities between the affairs of the ministries of the two of us. The fact that unemployed people are now interviewed every three months: However, I want to think of Finnish authorities in such a positive way that there would be such an element that people are taken care of, face to face, that it is not just e-services, or that the gap would not be longer. But I have understood so — correct now, if this is wrong — that in Norway, I think, or whether there was another Nordic country, it is even shorter between interviews or meetings, or it is somehow more controlled — or whether it is an element of control, I do not know. With regard to these interviews, I would also like to say that we also have researched information on the challenging life situations of the long-term unemployed, and that research data is definitely worth taking advantage of. For example, occupational doctor Raija Käästä has made a doctoral thesis, which considers such things as multidisciplinary assessment of work ability and rehabilitation needs with long-term unemployed — that this research information would then be awarded to them. But then about those incentive traps when they came out here: Of course, we'll have to scrub through the incentive traps. I think it is a very central part of the government programme: it is recorded that the traps are being dealt with, and it is also linked to the fact that standards are being dismantled as required. Of course, standards also have a good purpose, a country governed by law, governed by law. — Thank you for the debate.
